ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e24	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each and the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e33	For Norway, it is important to contribute to the ability of the United Nations at all times to perform joint tasks in the international community, even though it may seem quite hopeless at the turn of the 21st century. The Sierra Leone bloodbath, 800,000 internally displaced persons in Burundi, 500,000 forgotten Eritrean refugees in eastern Sudan, a feminisation of poverty in the world and an uncontrolled spread of nuclear capability and fissile material are just some of the enormous challenges facing the World Organisation. They were also topics of the 54th ordinary general meeting, which form the basis of St.meld. No 29 and Inn. S. No 178. Not surprisingly, regional conflicts, human rights issues and peacekeeping operations have been central to the 54th General Assembly of the United Nations. It was then also these issues that Secretary-General Kofi Annan put the most emphasis on in his article in the general debate. Kofi Annan asked timely enough questions about the concept of sovereignty set against humanitarian interests and fundamental human rights. We are facing both a new picture of conflict and a new disaster, both of which threaten to make the United Nations checkmate. The World Organisation is not organised to address the new challenges. In addition, conflicts in Africa are currently so insoluble that many of the UN Member States are refusing to intervene. A general down-priority of UN forces deployed in African conflicts, and the humiliation of the UN, carried out by actors in the same conflicts, puts the world organisation's performance and authority to a serious test. The following dramatic figures show that the picture of the conflict has changed: Of 101 armed conflicts between 1989 and 1996, only six were between states. The remaining 95 were internal in different forms. Of the 27 conflicts classified in 1996 as 'comprehensive armed conflicts', more than 1 000 killed per year. years, had 22 distinct ethnic features. During World War I, 5 pst. by the fallen civilians. During World War II, the number rose to 50 pst. In the 1990s, the share of civilian victims in wars and violent conflicts is between 80 and 90.The world is likely to have between 30 and 40 million people on the run. But only 14 million of these are refugees in the traditional sense. More than half are ‘displaced persons’ or internally displaced persons — refugees in their own country.Since World War II, cheap, mass-produced small arms have killed far more people than the heavier types of weapons traditionally used in military warfare.28 000 people are killed or crippled by anti-personnel mines each year.Natural disasters are increasing sharply, probably as a result of global warming, environmental pollution and war. We remember the flood recently in southern Africa, which hit Mozambique in particular. On the Horn of Africa again threatens starvation. While there were 16 major natural disasters in the 1960s, there was 70 in the 1980s. Many of today’s conflicts are characterized by their long - standing and extremely violent nature. Violence primarily affects the civilian population. Often, the parties have a measure of expulsion or retaliation. Women and children are high on the lists of killed and injured. We see more and more children as soldiers. The long-term effect is that violence is accepted and institutionalised and society is brutalised. Ethnic conflicts are regionalised. The national groups do not follow the borders of the nation state. Disunity and inequality combined with discrimination against groups in terms of access to financial resources such as land, work and education provide considerable room for manoeuvre in power policy. An ethnic explanation is provided to motivate violence against groups other than themselves. We see that many of today's warriors are mixed conflicts, often with uncontrolled militias and aggression elements from outside. Experience has shown that there is little opening up to compromise and negotiated solutions. War can become a way of life, where many see no future after the end of the war, and in half of the conflicts, the parties to the weapon again a while after we have a negotiated solution. It's just to mention Sierra Leone and Angola as clear examples of this. I think it is right to say that the ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, NATO's last year's bombing operations and the conflicts in Africa have updated the debate on world society's responsibilities and not least the role of the UN, also because the UN is still organised as if the world looked like in the first post-war years after World War II, including. a Security Council in which five major powers – not to say nuclear powers – have veto rights. There is a great need to reform the UN, but the work is slow, even though Kofi Annan is making an affordable effort. Central developing countries are opposed because they are afraid that the reforms may weaken their influence. The debate in the General Assembly on reform of the Security Council at the end of the session also brought no new ideas in a broken picture of interests and counter-interests. It is important that Africa is at the forefront of UN engagement, both in development and in peacekeeping efforts. A solution to the crisis in parts of Africa requires a set of instruments, both through the United Nations system and in cooperation between the United Nations and various Member States. We must stop clientising Africa and rather combine economic investment, trade, aid, conflict prevention, conflict resolution and democracy building. All of this must be done within an overall development strategy, where UN organisations must play a significant role. Whether conflicts are products of poverty, or poverty is a product of conflict, is to a large extent uninteresting today. The current situation is such that conflicts create poverty and hinder development. And the danger that we get even more conflicts is as great as the possibilities for resolving the conflicts we have today. The conflict on the Horn of Africa is a terrible example of this. In Eritrea, after each despotic regime had been released in 1991, it refused to do so. 500000 refugees return from East Sudan because they belong to ‘error’ liberation movement. They are in ‘wrong’ countries as well, so that international organisations do little with help. Now the bloody war between Eritrea and Ethiopia has contributed to another 50,000 military refugees and an unknown number of civilians in the same area. In Ethiopia, a famine is happening, the country is running a trench war on Eritrea in the second year, where thousands of lives are being lost, and all resources are being deployed into warfare. The evening post wrote on 16 May that in peacekeeping work in African countries, the UN must ‘continue to have a random and toothless force, which can hardly protect itself and which is in no way capable of creating or maintaining peace.’ With regard to military operations on the African continent, there is a tendency to do so cheaply, Kofi Annan has said in several interviews recently. Despite the fact that U.N. Ambassador Richard Holbrooke made January the month of Africa in the Security Council, unfortunately, practice shows that the United States is refusing to take an active step in order to contribute to a long-term solution in Africa. It is necessary that the international community does not give up Africa. It is also vital for the future role of the UN to succeed in Africa, both with development and conflict resolution. If – not to say when – Norway becomes a member of the Security Council, we should initiate a comprehensive and broad policy for Africa, based on security and development. We need a strong UN, and the organization must not fail in Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e97	As the report points out, the UN has dealt with a lot of issues during the period. This is natural for a global organisation in which all Member States are to be given the opportunity to contribute, while at the same time considering them as central problems for the world community, they are to be raised to treatment. It is not unnatural for countries in such an extensive organisation to have different approaches in some areas. Nevertheless, it is worrying that one so clearly sees the breakthroughs and passages to a north-south polarization. If such a large organisation is to function satisfactorily, an attempt must be made to avoid the insurmountable trenches. This polarization can have a complication. Now, there may not be a single desire for major transfers between the countries that are crucial here. The combination of market access and comparative benefits such as the price of labour and the desire of some countries to be able to intervene in relation to these things do not, of course, contribute to a trusting dialogue with the poor countries that feel suspicious, monitored and overrun. It is that to get a real and lasting solution to poverty problems, free trade and market access are the way to go. There is little help in sending money and other to poor countries, if the possibility of selling their goods and services is very limited. In fact, Norway has special customs rules for the very poorest countries, but this needs to be resolved on a broader basis. Norway must be at the forefront of free trade, including in the case of agricultural products. The point is that countries based on a free and non-state-directed economy must provide opportunities for the entire population – this because the dictators and their regimes will not be able to hold on to power by means of mild gifts from governments of other countries, or from the UN. We must be concerned with the individual's ability to work from poverty and not just the financial autonomy of the individual regime. The economic autonomy of some regimes will reduce the possibility of democracy and the potential for economic growth for each individual. With regard to the UN's type of poverty reduction, it is difficult to describe it as particularly cost-effective. This is due, inter alia, to: the bureaucratic structure of the United Nations and its apparatus. Resources and decisions must follow long and winding decision lines. The bureaucratic procedure reduces flexibility and incurs unnecessary costs. Another and not insignificant point is that the recipient countries will demand to influence the use of the funds. This will not necessarily help in democratisation, and in developments towards free trade — and as I said, it is crucial for a country to develop a sustainable and inclusive economy and promote democratic development. It is clear that Norway is making a major contribution to international peacekeeping operations, especially if Norway’s contribution is seen in the context of other countries’ contributions. Participation in international operations may initially be beneficial for Norway, but one should probably assess the extent and extent of the spread. In any case, it is important that our crews possess the knowledge and skills necessary. If credibility and good results are to be achieved, it is important that the necessary training conditions are met. If one continues to finance foreign operations at the expense of the general Norwegian defence, this would clearly have adverse consequences. In addition to the obvious fact that the general defence has a lower quality and effect than it would otherwise have, new recruitment to international operations will also suffer – this is because new personnel cannot be recruited on the same scale as before and because the necessary knowledge and skills are not trained. In other words, this means that international operations can never replace national bets, but only as a supplement and a good supplement. It is interesting to see how the majority of this will want to develop in terms of development. SV did not long stand on the barricades to politicise the u-help. Here a help was to be given to those organizations and groups that were closest to you. One would thus actively go in to govern the development of a country. At first sight, this may be offensive, but it may have serious and undesirable consequences for internal relations, for the relationship between internal democratic groups. The majority now want a feminisation of the development of poverty. I assume that this does not mean that poverty development should be a female phenomenon. When a majority believes that the female aspect of poverty is more important than the male one arises, is it the poverty that is the problem, or is it only in cases where there are women covered that one has a problem? This somewhat strange focus on women’s poverty will hardly help to solve the overarching problem that would allow all individuals, regardless of gender, race, religion or ethnicity, to get out of poverty. The best way to work for the rights of different groups is to practice non-discrimination and non-discrimination in all individuals, regardless of sex, race, religion or ethnicity. Those who really need the attention of the United Nations are refugees, sick and children – of both sexes. That's where the effort should be inserted. Against these three areas it is that an international organisation of this size can focus on — and make an effort. To do something about poverty and armed conflicts, the main means of free trade and the care of the weakest in a depressed society are children, sick and refugees. This assistance should be provided in the most appropriate way, both economically and culturally. This is done by means of neighbourhoods, private involvement and trade, and not necessarily through long, bureaucratic lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e123	The 54th General Assembly of the United Nations raised so many different important and key issues, both in terms of international law issues, human rights, the globalisation of trade and peacekeeping efforts – to mention something – that these issues could deserve a separate debate. In any case, we can state that the UN is facing major challenges. The UN plays a key role in international policy both in terms of peace and security, development, human rights and other humanitarian issues. The action of the organisation is strongly linked to the consensus principle. Therefore, it is worrying when in these important cases there are strong breaks and leads to North-South polarisation, as at the 54th General Assembly. In the economic field, this is reflected in the debate on the global economy, market access and various types of conditionality, where there appears to be an increasing distance and aggravating fronts between the G77 country group and the developed countries. It is a major challenge both for the United Nations system and the WTO in the future to prevent this disagreement from paralysing the negotiations for international legislation. The role of Norway in this context must be to contribute to finding good compromise solutions, so that development in this area continues. The UN sanctions policy is also under discussion. As the Christian People's Party sees it, Norway should now take an initiative to carefully review sanctions policy. We have become strongly critical of an unchanged regime as regards the sanctions adopted against Iraq. It is difficult to bear witness to the widespread suffering caused by the current sanctions on the civilian population in Iraq, without a critical search for the actual impact of these sanctions being put in place. According to UNICEF estimates, 150 children die every day as a result of this boycott of Iraq. Since the sanctions were imposed, nearly one million people have died. The poor live under ever worse conditions. Health services are miserable, and children who still have a school offer are taken out of school to work. Infrastructure is falling apart, and the whole country is characterised by social disintegration. Unfortunately, the limited trade allowed by the UN Oil for Food Programme has not been sufficient to improve the situation of the civilian population. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has for some time been critical of the current sanctions. For almost ten years, the world community has isolated Iraq, both economically and culturally, without, unfortunately, appearing to have weakened Saddam Hussein's grip on Iraq's power. On the other hand, innocent civilians suffer. Saddam Hussein must take full responsibility for this situation. His regime also violates fundamental human rights. At the same time, Iraq poses a security risk, both in relation to its neighbouring countries and in the region. However, when the international community imposes sanctions, it must also be accompanied by an obligation to verify the proper functioning of these sanctions. I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party does not advocate unilateral national measures in the area of sanctions, but that Norway should be involved in and open up a necessary debate, which has been going on for some time in the public debate, but which has so far not been raised with sufficient weight in the United Nations system. Various women's issues were also discussed at the 54th General Assembly. The Christian People's Party will express its support for the important work of raising women-related questions, including: in the work of the United Nations on Development and Human Rights. Violence against women and what is called the feminisation of poverty development must be central tasks of the UN in the future. I can reassure the representative Kukkestad that a proper understanding of feminisation is that one does not want to develop poverty, which is so hard on women, compared to what has been a sad development in this area. Active measures are therefore needed to prevent women from being particularly hard hit, when poverty is spreading. The adoption of a voluntary protocol last year to the Women’s Convention opens up individual complaints to the Women’s Committee and also entitles it to a separate examination procedure. This represents a clear advance in the protection of women’s human rights. This week, the UN Special Session on Women's Issues takes place in New York, and many Norwegian participants, including from Stortinget, are involved in this work to review the experience of the Beijing Women's Conference, five years later. However, the session shall focus not only on what has not been done but also on what can be done in the future. After all, that's all that matters. One of the most important functions of Beijing +5 is to renew the international community’s commitment to continue its important work on equality in terms of rights and opportunities – a work that is now being undertaken by the UN, but which must be incorporated and continued into other international bodies as well. The previous government worked very actively to strengthen Norway’s candidacy to the UN Security Council in 2001-2002. Norway’s wide involvement within the UN, but also in the OSCE, NATO and the WEU and more generally in the work on peace, security and development has been noted. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, Norway's candidacy has been strengthened following the work of the central government, which has now been continued by the current government. However, there is no easy path to this important position for Norway. Regardless of whether this would lead to a place for Norway in the Security Council, in any case, we should give priority to these important issues that I have mentioned here, in our international commitment. There has been a label and a quality stamp of Norwegian foreign policy which should be continued. The issue of the role of world society and the United Nations in regional conflicts and in peacekeeping operations has been a major issue in the 54th General Assembly of the United Nations. These are doubtful questions that will require further attention in the future. Most armed conflicts in the world are internal conflicts in a country, and nearly half of the world's 30 million refugees are internally displaced in their own country. Many difficult issues relate to both aspects of international law, to humanitarian intervention in relation to national sovereignty, to human rights and to the general strategic and political assessment of the international handling of such conflicts. It is not possible to address individual issues in the context of this debate. However, our main point of view remains: international peace-building or peace-keeping operations must be anchored in international law. The consent of the Parties or the mandate of the Security Council under Chapter VII or Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter must remain the basis for any military intervention. Questions have been raised as to whether our ambitions to participate actively in the international peace and reconciliation work, help to communicate and establish a platform for continuing negotiations between parties that stand steep against each other in a conflict, and also engage in key positions in international organisations – to which there may also be some prestige – should in some way be at the expense of our opportunities and our need to give clear notice even when this is not popular with powerful and influential nations. For my part, I think it is useful that this question is raised, although such suggestions may seem both unreasonable and even provocative when they are presented in a bombastic form. Of course, a broker cannot be trusted by the parties if the broker appears both pre-intentional and partial. However, I think that's the general acceptance that it expresses clear positions as long as it's will and openness to also listen to the other party's views. Therefore, there is no need to sweep under the carpet a profiled position on controversial issues, and not at all if the sole purpose is to obtain benefits, for example. through positions in international organisations, as is now expressed in the press. In that case, it will taste of skillful adaptation. But for my part, I cannot see that such criticism is justified in terms of our role in the international debate. In many cases, we have taken on an important bridge construction role in international policy. It is demanding in the relationship between ideal requirements and what is practicable to implement. I believe that this balance has been well maintained by Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e156	I would like to begin by stressing one of the points made by the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, namely that it is important that Norway does not celebrate under the carpet controversial positions in important debates. He is quite right in what he said at the outset, namely that the UN as an organisation is largely dependent on consensus, and therefore conflicts should be settled. Nevertheless, this must not lead us to leave controversial points of view. And there are some important conflicts where it's right and necessary for Norway to take clear positions, and then it's better to break or bear if we're always able to put ourselves in intermediate roles and in mediation roles. I'll come back to at least one area where this is of importance. In the setting, there is a part about the role of the United Nations in what is called man-made conflicts, and I readily agree that it was right for the Secretary-General of the United Nations to raise the issue of the concept of sovereignty, in the light of the obvious humanitarian considerations that exist in a number of conflicts. I understand that there is considerable scepticism in many countries about this. Nevertheless, I think it is right for Norway to stress that the concept of sovereignty has its clear limitations, as it obviously did in the Balkans. What's a bigger problem is to find out what role the United Nations is going to play in such conflicts. The fact that there is a lot of work to be done in the prevention field is quite clear. But the experience from the Balkans was that when it first became a conflict, and an armed conflict, and a massive violation of human rights, then unfortunately the UN was simply not the answer to the problem. They lacked the tools, lacked the mandates, and they lacked the military muscle to help solve the problems. It's not a development that any of us are happy about. Anyway, I think there's every reason to think that's the situation. And when NATO and the Western countries largely got involved, it wasn't because they wanted to put the United Nations aside, but it was because they played a role that the United Nations couldn't play. Unfortunately, on several occasions, we have seen that the UN has insufficient instruments for military conflicts, that it is not possible to fulfil the mandates given. Norway has just had experience of this in Lebanon, in UNIFIL, where it took more than 20 years before it came into a situation where it could be said that the mandate could be fulfilled, at the time when Norway was rightly out of Lebanon. In that context, since I have seen from the press that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is considering a new Norwegian involvement in Lebanon, I would like to express my strong scepticism towards such an commitment. We have a big, demanding commitment going on in the Balkans. We should do what we can to achieve this in the very best way, and I'll warn you that we're spreading the forces on multiple exposures. I'm aware that you could of course consider a more symbolic commitment, but I'll also warn you about it, maybe just against it. Because if we're going to get involved somewhere, it doesn't have to be for the sake of symbolism, but it has to be because we can do a good job on site, and then it takes more than symbolic contributions. Then I want to say two-three words about development problems, because it is an area where I think it is right that Norway has clear positions, even though it may be controversial in relation to the beneficiaries, and not least the debate on what is going on in order to bring about development. I think it is right to make a great deal of sense in recent years that a proper system of governance, a good system of governance, is crucial for further economic development. But I see that some of the conflicts in the general meeting have just been about many developing countries that there is a debate that is getting very close. In this area, I think it is quite clear that Norway does not have much to go on. It's right for us to highlight what's going on of boards to bring about economic development. For many decades in many countries, we have seen an economic system that has hindered further development. This has improved somewhat since socialism collapsed over large parts of the world, but there are many more, and there is no reason to give up this view. Indeed, a good set of governance and broad international trade are of greater importance for proper development than the development budgets themselves. Now I believe that the Progress Party is clearly wrong when they in the configuration assume that development help has no meaning. It is clear that development aid in the traditional sense has an important role to play with the other factors, but of course not in any way the significance of the Norwegian pro-mileline debate over the last decade. But it plays a role, along with other and maybe important factors. But the very fact that we're going to hold on to the fact that a good set of rules is one of the basic prerequisites for proper development, makes us also have to be willing to take a stand when we don't see developments going in the right direction. And although the challenge in Zimbabwe may be first and foremost a question target on bilateral policy, I would like to reiterate that I believe that the Norwegian Government should be very clear on that point that we are demanding clear changes in Zimbabwe before we spend more money there. I see that the Norwegian government has tried to encourage UNDP to engage in the land reform issue. I would like to stress that to do that, the prerequisite must be to keep free elections, that they are really free, and that the country's leadership is being put in the right direction. Only when these things are in place will the use of funds be meaningful. There I think the Norwegian government is unclear, and I would like to ask the Foreign Minister if he can now be quite clear that the criterion of good governance must be put at the bottom of our further involvement in Zimbabwe – whether the commitment should be directly bilateral or in cooperation with UNDP. Otherwise, I would like to stress the need for freer world trade, and that we not only have a compromising role in the WTO, but that we are trying to get ahead on important issues related to freer world trade in the WTO. The fact that this is a principle that benefits both developing countries and Norway does not make the position less favourable. Finally, I want to say a few words about arms control, because I notice that the message at this point says there was a lot of pessimism related to this area in the session. Now we should be so happy that in our part of the world it is not the UN's disarmament work that has been of importance. There has been bilateral disarmament and disarmament work in a larger context of cooperation between Eastern Europe on the one hand and NATO on the other. They have established a comprehensive arms control regime that has made our part of the world safer. But there is every reason to record that there are important issues the UN can engage in, and then I want to stress that the Iraq issue is one of them. My approach is that Iraq is one of the so-called robber states, which should worry us several times because they have programs and opportunities to develop weapons of mass destruction – chemical weapons, biological weapons and nuclear weapons. And even if the question of sanctions can be discussed, let us not forget that the main question itself is: what do you do with Iraq's policy of developing weapons of mass destruction? I believe that one of Norway's tasks is to ensure that a sufficiently effective policy is pursued, so that we have a control over Iraq in this area. That is also the perspective that needs to be taken into account if we are to discuss sanctions policy. Otherwise, on my last ten seconds, let me say that I've observed the little fuss that the so-called 'New Agenda Coalition' has a remarkable tendency to appear in several of the Greatness's foreign debates, but it's probably just an expression of diversity that the more peripheral things also find their place in our national assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e179	In a number of conflict areas, there is a need for a powerful UN to protect the civilian population from abuse and to bring about peaceful development. Unfortunately, we have seen that the UN has contributed only half-heartedly in a number of places and has little success in creating peace and averting violence. This has been the case, particularly in Africa, on which the rapporteur also stressed. In Sierra Leone, the UN’s efforts have been characterised as ‘too late and too little’. The U.N. has consisted of people with too little training. The amazing thing has happened that 500 U.N. soldiers were captured by the same rebels they had come to keep in check. Furthermore, we can mention the impotence of the UN in Angola, Somalia and Rwanda, where the UN failed to prevent or limit one of the worst genocides in history. In Africa, it appears that the UN intervenes without having the material and political means to do so. The UN's inability to prevent bloody civil wars in Africa shows that the organisation has crucial weaknesses, but also demonstrates that the countries of the northern hemisphere do not prioritise Africa sufficiently in terms of peacekeeping efforts. Improving the ability to create peace in countries with internal conflict is a key challenge for the UN. It is disappointing that one has not achieved more in this area, but in relation to the resources made available, it may not be so strange. It's a paradox that the world spends so huge sums preparing for war and so little on preventing conflict. It is a primitive thinking that still characterizes most countries, that peace is best created by preparing for war. The United States now seems to be interested in spending a limitless billion dollars on rocket defense to secure its security. Some of these billions of dollars spent on development and democracy building in the United Nations would mean infinitely much more for both American and global security. The same is true of Norway's desire to spend 17 billion kroner on frigates. In comparison, the total cost of UN peacekeeping operations in 1999 was estimated at about $1.3 billion. Here, there's a marked misunderstanding. If adequate resources are deployed to combat poverty and develop democracy, conflicts and social unrest could be mitigated. In addition to focusing more on conflict prevention, it is an important task for the UN to come up with new non-military sanctions. SV has been among the first to propose financial penalties rather than military interventions. But in this area, we all have to think again. The Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy shows in a report that of approx. 170 sanctions regimes throughout the 20th century only have between 15 and 20 pst. has a measurable effect. The aim of sanctions is to push for change. The strategy is to make people's living conditions worse, so that one undermines legitimacy and trust in those who sit by power. This may be a useful idea for working democracies, but it is precisely the lack of democracy that characterises the regimes against which we go to sanctions. It makes a strong impression to read that Iraqi children who are hit by leukemia, now without exception die, while one before had the means to save a large part of them. When there are children, old and sick who bear the heaviest consequences of the sanctions, while the ruler works and lives in sus and so forth, the sanctions do not allow themselves to defend ethically. When people have to use all their power to get themselves and their families the most basic things you need in everyday life, it's also hard to see how a political opposition with popular anchoring can grow. International law protects civilians during war. It may almost seem that the civilian population is better protected by international law during open war than under sanctions regimes. Today's penalties must be abolished in favour of better targeted penalties. Targeted sanctions shall affect the political elite. Examples of such penalties are restrictions on the financial arrangements of a regime, confiscation of bank accounts and property, arms embargo, etc. Much is now being put in place to provide Norway with a place in the Security Council. If Norway gets a place, it is important that we use this position. One of the strategies to succeed in being selected is obviously to go on rubber soles internationally and guard against shocking anyone. This must not be a model for our behaviour after we are selected. Norway must assert a clear voice in defence of the interests of the poor, for disarmament and conflict prevention. Norway must continue to contribute to the reduction of disparities between developing countries and developed countries, as reported by St.meld. No 29 for 1999-2000 as important during last year's general meeting. Today's polarisation between north and south, including with regard to human rights issues and good governance, is very unfortunate and impedes development. It must be an important task for Norway in the United Nations to work creatively to create a better North-South dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e200	Norway is served by an effective UN developed in the pact with the challenges facing the world community. The challenges for the UN have never been greater. There are clear expectations for the UN to contribute to lasting solutions to many of today’s conflicts. This applies not least to the conflicts in Sierra Leone, Angola and Congo. We must recognise that some of the major challenges facing the United Nations today lie on the African continent. In this context, I will have the opportunity to pay tribute to the African countries that have supported the work of the United Nations and made important contributions to finding political solutions to many of the conflicts that today characterise the news picture. From the Norwegian side, we have paid particular attention to the role of the Organization for African Unity, OAU, and sub-regional organisations can play at all levels of conflict resolution. In several cases, we have given concrete support to the OAU's mediation and other peace initiatives under the organisation's direction. When you see the increased demands made on the UN, it is of the utmost importance that we, as a Member State, make available the necessary personnel and resources. Without this, the UN cannot perform the tasks that the organisation is intended to perform under the UN Charter. Therefore, Norway and Canada have recently taken a joint initiative to strengthen the United Nations’ capacity to deal with crisis situations. We want to make a concrete contribution to strengthening the UN's ability to plan and implement peace and crisis operations. Several teams — including here in the Chamber today — have raised questions about the usefulness of economic and other sanctions to force peace settlements and respect for human rights and democracy. I'm glad that the debate is coming. There is now a broad consensus among the members of the Security Council that the penalty instrument is an important form of response that should continue to be applicable in given situations. And I haven't seen it this way in the debate here today that someone has called for the abolition of the sanctions regime. You want to make it more focused. It is increasingly recognised — even outside this room, in other countries — that penalties often affect innocent people and therefore need to be developed and made more targeted. It is necessary to develop realistic alternatives to full economic boycott and other sanctions affecting the civilian population. It is primarily within the framework of the Security Council that this work needs to be done. Norway, if we have a place in the Security Council, will place great emphasis on efforts to nuance the use of sanctions as an instrument in crisis situations. We would like, among other things: require more thorough preparatory work by the United Nations and the Security Council to identify the effects before taking steps to impose sanctions. The work to give Norway a place in the Security Council for the two-year period 2001-2002 is naturally given very high priority by the Government. Nothing has been decided until the vote in October has taken place. If we were to be elected, we assume a great responsibility. When we have given so much attention to the Security Council candidate, it is of course because we have relevant experience of peace and reconciliation work and can thus make important contributions to the work of the Security Council. If we are elected to the Security Council, we will work to put some of our own priorities on the agenda. I would like to mention here in a crossword form: the prevention of conflicts, the coherence between underdevelopment, poverty and conflict, and the protection of civilians in conflict situations. I am pleased that this debate has now shown that there is broad support for the UN, which has been and is a key pillar of Norwegian foreign policy. Jan Petersen raised a question, namely whether the Government will put the criterion of good governance at the bottom of Norwegian involvement in Zimbabwe, directly or through the UNDP. I can clearly answer yes to that. In general, I would like to say that it is necessary to give this criterion greater emphasis in our aid policy in the future. It is good to say that good governance is necessary to develop in a wide range of countries. I also want to say that Norway will not wear rubber soles until we are eventually elected to the Security Council. To be elected to the Security Council, we do not, and we will not do so after we have been elected, if necessary. We are pursuing the same policy now that we may wish to do after we have been elected to the Security Council. That was the criterion of the previous government, and it follows up the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e221	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e226	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 7-9 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e256	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. The President would also suggest that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who had to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e265	The Council of Europe celebrated its 50th anniversary last year. Since the beginning of May 1949, the Council of Europe has remained one of Europe's most important instruments to promote human rights, but also to promote the development of democracy, the rule of law, culture, education and social cohesion. The main instrument for this is the European Convention on Human Rights and the possibility for individual citizens of the Member States to bring an action against it against the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Furthermore, there is a network of important conventions, with the social charter as perhaps the most important thing. It forms the basis for what a perhaps a bit generous could call political culture in Europe. Norway was there from the beginning. That is why it may be of particular interest to us to see what developments the Council of Europe has had in recent years. Following the fall of the Berlin Wall, one country after another from Central and Eastern Europe, from the former Soviet sphere in Eastern Europe and from the former republics of the Soviet Union, which are now independent nations, has applied to the Council of Europe as a Member State. This is promising because it also implies an obligation to maintain the democratic standards and the human rights standards that the Council of Europe stands for. But in this recording procedure, of course, there are also some issues. The most important one may be this: on the one hand, the Council of Europe is faced with a requirement to maintain its standards, so that there are no double standards in these key areas. On the other hand, it is important for Western Europe to include new states, to support their development of democracy and to support them in human rights efforts. This is why there is a regular debate about when a country is mature for accession to the Council of Europe. It is true that all candidate countries have a significant record of achieving this, and it is also true that both the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly and the other bodies of the Council of Europe place great emphasis on maintaining democratic standards and human rights standards. But the debate is there, and the debate will of course also be there in the future in connection with new countries seeking admission, and now Azerbaijan and Armenia are the ones that have been reported in this way. However, balancing aid for the development of democracy and the maintenance of standards means that one must also have a monitoring mechanism to ensure that the new Member States – and to the extent that all Member States – meet the commitments made by the Member States. Such mechanisms have now been developed both on the ministerial side and on the parliamentary side, and the Government's communication states that this is a matter of great importance and desire to strengthen. It is that some conflicts raise more difficulties than others in this balancing process. In the present situation, one of the more demanding challenges facing the Council of Europe is how to deal with the problems of Russian warfare in Chechnya. The Parliamentary Assembly has called for the use of relatively strong instruments, such as: by asking the Government to consider the use of Article 33 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and thus, where appropriate, to bring an action against Russia under that Convention. Parliamentarians have also made a proposal to ministers that, if material improvements to the Chechen war do not take place quickly, a suspension procedure should be initiated. The Council of Ministers, for its part, has placed considerable emphasis on the potential of maintaining close and good relations with Russia and developing cooperation between Russia and Europe. Both are important approaches to this issue. For my part, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on the proposals made by the Parliamentary Assembly, but in particular on how the Norwegian Government looks at how our international commitment to the Council of Europe can better enable us to influence a better development in Chechnya by Russia. Both the notification and the unanimous opinion of the Committee indicate that there is a broad consensus in Norway as to what the Council of Europe is and not least what it should be. The great innovation in recent years is that the Human Rights Court and the Human Rights Commission have merged into one, more powerful, body. It is of great importance precisely in relation to the individual right of appeal of individual citizens. But that also means, of course, that with the very strong enlargement of the Council of Europe has had in recent years, there are quite a few hundred million new citizens in Europe who have such a right to complain. It is therefore important that the Court of Justice be able to deal with the complaints on a resource-based basis without excessive delays. It is likely, if no greater resources are allocated here, that the performance of the Council of Europe in dealing with these matters could be weakened, not least in the new Member States, both in the case of individual citizens and in the case of public authorities. I am therefore pleased that the Government also points out that it is important to provide the Court with sufficient resources to improve this situation. Finally, it is improper that when you work in international organisations, there is sometimes a certain distance, not least in time, between the goals you set and how these are practically solved. I therefore think it is particularly gratifying to point out that the very strong commitment of the Council of Europe to the abolition of the death penalty in all Member States has now come very far. It is true that the death penalty remains in several countries, but it is also true that most Member States now have a moratorium to ensure that the death penalty is not enforced. Here too, of course, the Government is in line with the fact that not least the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has expressed very strongly, and the Government says in its communication that it will continue its work on the definitive abolition of the death penalty in the countries concerned, both multilaterally and bilaterally. It may not be very often a feeling that the efforts of both Norwegian parliamentarians and others in an international assembly are getting concrete results, but here we are saving some lives, and that is not a bad result just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e286	I was probably not the only one who at the end of the 1980s looked at the Council of Europe as a kind of soup council, where it was fun to travel for big business representatives, but how small the importance of the work was. There were probably also many around Europe who asked themselves what value it really had to maintain a parliamentarian's assembly in the Council of Europe, when at the same time Members were sent to the European Parliament from almost the same countries. However, following the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, the Council of Europe has, in my view, been given a renewed value. The most important thing now is to ensure and promote the development of democracy in Eastern Europe. The former Communist countries of Eastern Europe are very eager to join, and once they have become members, they are very eager to maintain their membership. First of all, because these countries want a link to and a point of reference in Europe, and then the Council of Europe will be the first stop on the road towards the EU and NATO. If it is not possible to be accepted as a member of the Council of Europe, it is, of course, also impossible to move forward and take the next step, as a full member of the European Community. This risk of not becoming a member of the Council of Europe and the risk of being excluded once a member has become an important means of pressuring the Council of Europe to ensure the stable development of democracy and human rights in those countries. The Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly shall send rapporteurs to States applying for membership, who shall cooperate with the national authorities. There are strict requirements for what needs to be met before membership can be resolved. Reports shall be written to the Committees, which shall again make recommendations to the Assembly of Members of the Parliament. In addition, the Council of Europe has a rather thorough control function even in retrospect, and action will be taken if negative trends towards human rights violations are detected. As a member, I have also discovered that the Council of Europe has an important role as a democratic training for politicians from countries of former Eastern Europe. They are often among the most eager members, they learn to cooperate, and they gain respect for the opinions and attitudes of others that they take back to their national parliaments. Only in one area may I think that the Council of Europe has pressed a little hard, and that is the removal of the death penalty in the Member States. Death penalty is, of course, an accepted criminal policy instrument in the United States, and it is rare for the United States to be subjected to any significant criticism from Norwegian or European politicians because many states accept the death penalty. The death penalty also supports 80-90 pst. of the population of most countries in Eastern Europe and have been practised in many countries, and where the population believes that there are good reasons for such an instrument in countries where crime is much more brutal than in our own country. That's why it really needs to be a pretty strong backbone for the politicians in these states to go against the people's opinion, which is as massive as it is, and take steps to remove the death penalty. The fact that they have done so and have followed the wishes of the Council of Europe shows a very strong willingness to follow up the requirements of membership. So even if you might think that you are being pressured very hard, that it is moving a little fast, and that you could sometimes respect that you need a little better time to make the necessary legislative changes, there is no doubt, and my conclusion is quite clear: the Council of Europe is today one of our most important tools for promoting democracy in states that were dictatorships not so many years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e297	As the rapporteur pointed out, the Council of Europe can now celebrate its 50th anniversary. The Council of Europe was established after World War II to build institutions that could prevent the horrors of the war that we witnessed after the peace in 1945. At the time, 10 Member States agreed on this important Council. In the anniversary year, there are 41 Member States and new Member States are knocking on the door of the Council of Europe. It confirms the joyous development we have in Europe, with an increasing appreciation of the ideals and values on which the Council of Europe is based: human rights, democracy and social cohesion. At the same time, these new Member States, which are mainly in Eastern and South-Eastern Europe, represent major challenges for the Council of Europe. On the one hand, the Council needs to uphold the democratic ideals and the democratic norms. On the other hand, it is important to be able to contribute to the creation of an emerging democracy that strives to secure the grip, to be able to participate in a network of democratic states and to be given the necessary help to build democratic institutions and to incorporate more strongly fundamental human rights into its own law. A successful combination of these two considerations requires strong efforts on the part of the Council of Europe and a necessary balance. An e.g. e. in the follow-up to the demands made by the Council of Europe to its members in relation to what may be called the humanitarian and democratic basic values on which the organisation is based, will in the long term undermine the authority and legitimacy of the Council of Europe today. Strengthening the control mechanisms available in this important cooperation is therefore important and necessary, and I have registered the Government's desire and aim to strengthen and be a driving force in this important work. I'm glad. With regard to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, it had its first full year of operation last year, and the Council of Europe set up the position of Commissioner for Human Rights at the same time. This is an important step towards strengthening the realisation of fundamental rights for all people in Europe. At the same time, the Strasbourg Court of Justice is facing major challenges due to insufficient resources. The number of cases brought before this court is rising sharply, and at the moment the proceedings pending before the Court of Justice are being pursued in an unacceptable manner. This weakens the credibility of the Court of Justice, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that Norway contributes to and underlines the need for and points to the need for greater resources to the Court of Human Rights. Like the rapporteur and the representative Simonsen, I would like to point out the important role of the Council of Europe in the process of abolishing the death penalty in all Member States. Developments are, as the rapporteur said, in the right direction. No death sentences were executed in the Council of Europe's membership area last year. This is a milestone. For its part, the Christian People's Party will stress the importance of the work of the most fundamental human right, the right to life, and we are pleased that both the Parliamentary Assembly and the Government unite forces to ensure that the work of abolishing the death penalty is now actively carried out through the Council of Europe's bodies and also in bilateral contexts. The Council of Europe is also very committed to political stability throughout Europe. At the moment, South-Eastern Europe is the focus of attention in this context. In its work aimed at the Balkans, the Council cooperates, inter alia: with the EU and the OSCE. Under the former government, considerable resources were put in place to coordinate the activities of the OSCE and the Council of Europe, and I am afraid that that coordination is still not completed. There is still some parallelity in efforts and in tasks that both de motivating and creating uncertainty about effort and resource use, and that is why it is important to follow up, to work rationally in the international community and to avoid unnecessary duplication of effort. In this context, I would like to raise a specific matter and repeat what has also been said earlier by us, namely the EU's work on a separate charter of citizens' rights. We who are outside the EU cannot interfere in this, but we should at least avoid giving the European Convention on Human Rights a competitor in the EU system, so that responsibility is spread and the authority of this important Convention is weakened. Again, it will be a challenge to ensure that monitoring and the Court of Justice of the Council of Europe function so well that a more or less parallel system that can be developed in the EU is made redundant. Although Europe can point to a great and positive development in democracy, international law and humanitarian terms, we still find great, important tasks unsolved in our own part of the world. The Christian People's Party wants to highlight that we want to be involved and underline the importance of the work to implement, among other things. the values for which the Council of Europe stands in relation to the new democracies. Norway shall continue to play a high role in the Council of Europe, thereby contributing to the core tasks of the organisation, namely human rights, democratic stability, the principles of the rule of law, culture, education and social cohesion, being further involved in the important work of closer links between European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e316	At its 50th anniversary last year, the Council of Europe could look back on an impressive effort to promote intergovernmental cooperation in Europe. It is particularly in the core areas of human rights, democracy and the principles of the rule of law that the work of the Council of Europe has been groundbreaking. In my opinion, the 50th anniversary is well equipped to meet new challenges in the coming years. In the 1990s, the Council of Europe, as many have already mentioned, played a historic role as the gateway to European cooperation for the new democracies of Central and Eastern Europe. By making its core competences available to the new Member States, the Council of Europe has also prepared the basis for the accession of these countries to other cooperation forums, such as the EU and NATO. At the same time, it is clear that the Council of Europe is facing new challenges. It will be a central task for the Council of Europe in the coming years to ensure that the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is provided with sufficient resources to fulfil its role as the Board of Appeal for nearly 800 million European citizens. Enlargement in the number of Member States has made it imperative to streamline justice. The provision of resources to the Court of Human Rights will be an extra major challenge as the Council of Europe is currently operating with zero growth in the budget. The Council of Europe Conventions on Human Rights have been under constant development since their establishment and have been supplemented by non-judicial mechanisms. At the 104th meeting of the Committee of Ministers in Budapest last year, the mandate of the new Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe was adopted. The MR Commissioner has already proved to be a useful grant for the organisation through his efforts in the context of the conflict in Chechnya. The meeting also adopted the Budapest Declaration, which draws up the main lines of the organisation's work in the coming years. Five key areas of action are identified: human rights, democratic stability, the principles of the rule of law, culture and education and social cohesion. It is also intended to maximise the targeted use of the resources and competences of the Council of Europe. I would also like to recall the importance of the Council of Europe for Norwegian society. In the spring of 1999 Ot.prp. No 3, On the Law on Strengthening the Position of Human Rights in Norwegian Law, adopted. The law includes, inter alia: that the European Convention on Human Rights has become an integral part of Norwegian law and that it takes precedence in the event of conflict with other laws. Both the torture committee and the Council of Europe Expert Committee on Racism and Intolerance visited Norway in 1999. We cooperate closely with both committees, and will do our best to follow up the recommendations of the committees. The Strasbourg Court of Justice has ruled against Norway, which is largely concerned with violations of freedom of expression. These judgments are legally binding and will, of course, be followed up. Tom Thoresen asked about the Government's position on the Parliamentary Assembly resolution to suspend Russia from the Council of Europe. Here I would like to point out that the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee dealt with this and, at the beginning of May, adopted a press communiqué on Russia's handling of the conflict in Chechnya. The communication was a consensus document, and was therefore considerably weaker in its criticism of the Russian warfare than most of the Member States, including Norway, expressed in their interventions. However, it is not appropriate to exclude Russia from the Council of Europe, as the Parliamentary Assembly has called for. The vast majority of members of the Council of Europe consider that the possibility of influencing Russian authorities positively is greater within than outside the organisation. Following the presidential elections in Russia, there have been positive signals of greater will for a tough course towards a fully-fledged rule of law and participation in the global economy. In addition, the summit between Putin and Clinton was marked by a willingness for pragmatic cooperation. Russia has also expressed its willingness to allow the OSCE to reopen its office in Zsnamskoye, Chechnya. With this in mind, I cannot see with my best will that it is a good way to try to isolate Russia and deprive Russia of its participation in the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is one of several organisations working for human rights, democracy and cooperation in Europe. The Government attaches great importance to ensuring the broadest possible coordination of the Council of Europe's efforts in the direction of other organisations, such as the EU, the OSCE and the United Nations. Only in this way can we ensure a stable, peaceful and democratic Europe. The representative Simonsen said that at the end of the 1980s many asked the question of whether the Council of Europe was a Council of Soups. Now, he stressed, we see that the Council of Europe has an important function. I think this shows that one should not be too populistic or temporal in one's view of international cooperation and international organisations. There is always a day when we need international organisations, not least the activities of the Council of Europe have been shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e342	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7, 8, and 9. [[See page 3460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e356	At the recommendation of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time for each speaker be limited to 5 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e359	Just a few words in the case rapporteur's absence. This proposal was submitted on the basis of a report drawn up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1999 referred to as the ‘Electronic Foreign Service’. In view of this, the proposer has considered that the state of the upgrading of the information and communication technology in the EEAS is such that there is a reason for the Stortinge to take an initiative. The majority have thought that this is a relationship that it is all the way up to the government itself to treat. There is no disagreement in the Committee that the issues raised are important and that the EEAS should also have an up-to-date and fully-fledged information and communication technology available for its work. But in the opinion of the Committee majority, this is the sole responsibility and responsibility of the Government. That is why the majority rejects this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e370	New information and communication technologies have facilitated communication and international cooperation across time zones. Technology has also dramatically facilitated access to up-to-date information and the exchange of information. It is a serious problem for Norway that we have a foreign service that has not followed developments in this field. That is the case is documented in the report on the electronic international service, which was prepared by a working group in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1999 and also mentioned by the chair of the committee. The SV proposal was to ask the Government to provide an action plan for upgrading information and communication technologies in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Norwegian Foreign Service, so that by the end of 2002, the EEAS should also reach a level equivalent to that of other countries and businesses and organisations. The SV considers this to be a matter of national importance and concerns Norway’s ability to pursue an effective and up-to-date foreign policy. SV therefore regrets that the majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee has chosen to reject the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e379	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3461]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e395	The interpellation will be taken up by John Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e398	Initially, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has, at short notice, agreed to respond to my interpellation. I also see this as an expression of the fact that Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Igland, my questions in the text of the interpellation are most topical, and in that case it is also gratifying. Ten years ago, the nation-states lifted the governance they had until then over transnational capital movements. The removal of governance instrument was not replaced by new ones. This is an essential fact in all discussions about national states in a globalised economy. And the conflict is open. On the one hand, free capital movements have led to far-reaching integration within the world economy, on the other hand, citizens in the countries have an increasing sense of being exposed to anonymous forces. The conditions for exercising democracy have been dramatically more difficult for the last ten years because of this. Of course, the theme has a lot of public interest. It is not to be overlooked that the general relationship between global structures and the nation states, as it develops, is particularly divisive in the developing world. There's a main point in my interpellation today. The current starting point is short and good: after the capital movements released, stagnated work for global warming. It seemed to be a safe conclusion. Unseen globalisation optimists continue to point out that growth in the world economy is increasingly benefiting people. They may have a point, especially if absolute terms are derived from it. Indisputably, however, the wealth gap between the rich and the poor in the world has increased, and there is a general trend. It is in this context that free capital movements have a great potential for damage, because capital without control takes a course that is not for the benefit of most people, but for the benefit of the few. As you know, 90 pst. short-term speculation of the international capital of money. The destabilising effect of this huge flow of money is obvious. If large amounts of capital are transferred to a country, or large amounts of capital are withdrawn, this affects the value of domestic capital, material values and labour. The Asian crisis came as a result of a lack of management of the capital movements. Suddenly, the value of the loan increased to such an extent that it was not advisable to handle it, and then dried the credits in, so that financing of new activities was impossible. There was a wave of bankruptcy. After the crisis it has been said and written a lot about the need to prevent such situations, but it is still a fact that free capital movements appear to have pre-emptive rights above all else. All over the world, governments feel anxiety about what could happen if the anonymous capital of speculation was bullied. How the same governments will be able to take responsibility for their inhabitants is not easy to understand. Of course, the situation is not to live with. For example, yesterday I saw in the press that a new crisis could be under seal. On Tuesday, the Financial Times had a front-page warning that the world economy is at risk of landing hard because of developments in the American economy. The central party is stifling the idea of bringing power and responsibility back to the nation states, to the elected assemblies, which are the only legal practitioners of popular sovereignty. We think it is best and most realistic that such renationalisation can take place in inter-country interaction. We also believe that institutions at regional and global level can act as important governance instruments. The requirement must be that the control systems should have democratic legitimacy. The question is: will the Foreign Minister take the initiative to control international capital movements, based on international cooperation, become an important and permanent element of Norwegian foreign policy? And question No. 2 is: Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs on behalf of Norway show a clear profile at the social summit in Geneva this summer? I remind you that the meaning of this meeting includes: is to identify sources of funding for development. Charges on international capital movements may be such a source as to finance development assistance. On 24 May of this year, the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the Stockholm Stock Exchange asked the Minister for Finance whether he would be working on the introduction of a levy on international capital movements. He then said that he basically agreed on such an idea, but would not go on with things without the support of the international community. True, I expect a stronger commitment from the Foreign Minister. He is well aware of all the important problem settings and with all the literature on various possible approaches. We are not left without advice, it is the political will it depends upon. I am therefore very interested to know what the Foreign Minister and Norway can put on the table at the social summit, a meeting where international bullying and control of international capital movements are on the agenda. Let me also mention the need to change the World Bank and the IMF, so that the developing countries can have a greater impact on these institutions, which are precisely intended to play roles such as development agents and crisis helpers. I refer here to Professor Gerald K. Helleiner, who, in an interesting book on global financial challenges, launches several proposals for change. The objective is to enable the World Bank and the IMF to contribute to the transformation of international financial policies in favour of developing countries. Another measure — much less extensive but still useful — could be the introduction of an international ombudsman system for the developing countries. The proposal must be viewed in the light of the need to examine the actions taken by the World Bank and the IMF as conditions for assistance. It would be a great step forward if the developing countries could get a complaint body to turn to if they believe that they are sometimes pressured to lead, not experienced as well. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister of Foreign Affairs if these were ideas that fit well into the forthcoming Norwegian strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e421	It's a very important question that is addressed by the interpellant. I have been personally concerned about this for a very long time. And as you might have seen, I've brought this up in almost all my speeches here in the country, and I've also taken it up in a whole series of international meetings. We've got a global economy. This cannot be reversed, for example: because development is technology-based. We've got a free flow of information, and therefore also of capital as a result of this technological development. You can't reverse that. But the back of this medal is that we've got a brutal and unregulated capitalism that leads to a very distorted distribution in the world community. We should be able to do something about this. measures referred to by the inter-pellant. I would say that for most countries, including Norway, access to export markets and foreign investment has been crucial for economic growth and development. However, rapid growth in the access to capital of weak financial institutions and underdeveloped economies may increase the risk of financial crises. This is the speed, among other things: countries in Latin America in the 1980s and in Asia in the 1990s. The crises also hit millions of people far beyond these regions. This underlines the importance for all of us of establishing robust international mechanisms to prevent financial and currency crises. Many of the financial crises that have occurred, among others: in several developing countries, is also linked to the existence of a non-sustainable economic policy. It is primarily up to countries themselves to pursue sound economic policies that provide confidence in financial markets. From the Norwegian side, we have contributed to this by providing financial advice, among others. through our participation in the IMF and the World Bank. In a globalised world with almost free flow of capital, there is a clear need for policy measures regulating capital flows. It is high time to establish international rules on the movement of capital across borders. The government will work actively for this. We want to prevent speculative and destabilising capital movements, while facilitating increased trade, long-term investment in stable currency markets. Prior to the forthcoming UN General Assembly Special Session in Geneva on the follow-up to the Social Summit, several countries have submitted proposals to implement measures to prevent or mitigate the negative effects of speculative cross-border capital movements. The question is therefore already on the agenda of the special session. The government, in cooperation with like-minded countries, will seek to contribute to the greatest possible positive outcome of the Geneva debate. However, the issue is controversial, and it is uncertain whether it will be possible to reach agreement on concrete proposals. A proposal that has received some attention prior to the special session is the Canada proposal to further investigate the impact of a charge on currency transactions, including the potential benefits and disadvantages of such a charge. It is the government’s view that such a charge, if properly designed, could help to promote stability in the foreign exchange markets. At the same time, it could be an important source of funding for development activities, including: through the UN system. On this basis, Norway has expressed its support for the Canadian proposal. After Canada has changed the wording of the proposal, it now appears that the EU can support it. However, heavy players such as the United States and Japan are still negative, and it is therefore unlikely that the proposal will be adopted in its present form. The government sees it as a prerequisite for the imposition of a levy on capital transactions that it has wide international support and that it is introduced in all countries with a certain sized economy, including in non-OECD countries. If not, currency trading will only move to tax-free areas, which could have serious effects on both exchange rates and interest rates, i.e. the true opposite effect of what we want to achieve. The UN General Assembly has decided to hold a summit on financing development in 2001. The purpose of the meeting is to facilitate better access to capital for developing countries. The meeting will discuss the broad range of issues related to financing development, both traditional development assistance, private investment, debt and trade. As part of the preparations for the summit, we in Norway have underlined the need for more countries to meet the UN objective of delivering 0.7 pst. of gross domestic product in development aid. This is particularly important for LDCs, which have the greatest difficulty in attracting private capital. It is clear that aid alone cannot meet developing countries' capital needs. It is therefore important to mobilise private capital, both from national sources and from the international capital market. At the Geneva Summit, it will be an important task to highlight the conditions that affect the willingness and ability to increase private investment in developing countries. The debt burden hangs like a millstone around the neck of many developing countries. Norway has been at the forefront of doing something about this, both on a bilateral basis and through the so-called HIPC initiative, Heavy Indebted Poor Countries. The aim of the HIPC scheme is to secure more than half of the debt to about 30 of the world’s poorest countries. This will undoubtedly be an important contribution to increasing the creditworthiness of these countries and to promoting a better investment climate. Norway will continue to be a driver of economic cohesion between the rich and poor parts of the world. An important part of this strategy is to promote increased international investment in developing countries. The proposal for a levy on international currency transactions should be further explored. I am convinced that a properly designed fee could contribute to increased stability in the currency markets while being an important source of funding for development purposes and to solving important international tasks. I think I can conclude that the Government and the interpellant are broadly in line with the need for regulation here and more control over what is happening on the international currency markets, but at the same time that it does not lead to the creation of capital for the poor countries as well. It is not necessary to lay down rules that may make the situation even worse for those who need capital for investment and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e451	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, which I all think is positive, especially if it is to be understood that Norway will clearly go ahead with international initiatives in order to control speculative capital movements. The fact that Norway, for example, defining itself as a driver at the forthcoming Geneva Summit will be of great value. I understand that it was what the Foreign Minister said here, and if he can confirm this in his second reply to me, it is obvious that I will see that this is very positive. Then I will remind you once again of the situation of the developing countries in the new global economy, which clearly updates the need to adjust the price internationally. Experience shows that many national economies are not strong enough to join the good company. It is important that countries in the Western world realise that there are developing countries that are unable to become part of the Western economy, especially not in a short time. Many of the countries have agriculture and mining as their main industries, and it continues to show that such economies do not tolerate so-called free competition on a world-wide basis. The results of the Uruguay Round in the WTO have so far not contributed to international warming and growth in developing countries, and we also have examples of Western advice being ignored. I refer to the latest edition of Money and Credit, published by the Bank of Norway, where it is shown that the rise in Asia after the Asia crisis has come partly from the fact that these countries did the opposite of what the IMF recommended, they simply put up an expansive fiscal policy with deficits on the state budget. This has given them a welcome domestic stimulus, and this has also helped to help them out of the crisis. It's in the light of such a realism it turns out necessary to go a new path. And Norway should go in to strengthen the processes under way in the United Nations to raise capital for developing countries. It can be done in combination with measures to control capital movements, and do so, a new strategy will be under way, and that is what needs to be done. It is well in this context that support for the Canadian proposal is particularly important, and I am pleased with what the Foreign Minister said on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e467	I want to say a clear yes to the fact that Norway will define itself as a proponent here, that we will try to get in the breeze. We're doing it with Canada by supporting the Canadian proposal. It's been a long time since I myself spoke about this very proposal in international assemblies on social democracy, and I think most people who know me in that family define me as a driver for this for very many years. But we need broad support to implement it. We must have support from the European Union. It looks like we're getting. But it's clear that without the United States and Japan too being willing to look at this, it's probably not easy to get it done. I also fully agree that we need to strengthen the processes in the United Nations, and in this respect it is a good proposal to impose a levy on currency transactions, also because it could bring money into the United Nations to fund investments and capital injections to the poor countries. It's a good way to balance the differences in the world's society. All in all, I think that the question that has been raised here, perhaps is one of the most important issues that is on the international agenda now. It also shows how important it is to achieve binding international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e476	It's an important topic that the interpellant has addressed. Securing capital to developing countries and also governing capital, or having rules on the running of capital flows, is central to balancing the great differences that we see in the international community today. We must work to improve the access of developing countries to export markets and foreign investment. These are some of the challenges we face in a globalised world, and, let me add, technology makes globalization unreversible. In addition, isolation has never permanently led any country out of poverty, it shows all experience. On the contrary, it is trade, but with international driving rules, which ensure sustainable development and growth in each country. In my opinion, the issue of the transfer of capital and competences to developing countries requires a broad set of measures. It means opening up our markets to the developing world's products, which means that as part of a comprehensive development strategy, several actors are assisting with investment in skills development and various forms of business. It also requires stronger coordination between aid, trade, conflict prevention and democratic development. A good governance is a prerequisite for growth and development. Conflicts in Africa are now leading to poverty and stagnation. In addition, as underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the UN will hold a summit on financing development in 2001. When Stortinget treated St.meld. No 43 for 1996-97 on reforms in the UN system, a unanimous committee was set up to seek new sources of additional funding from the World Organisation and, among potential revenues, the fee for foreign exchange transactions. It is therefore natural to support Canada’s proposal to further investigate the impact of a charge on currency transactions. This is also, as underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which, not least, international social democracy has been working for a very long time. Such a charge, in addition to strengthening the financing of the UN, will also promote stability in the foreign exchange markets. Finally, for the Workers' Party, it is important to work for governance mechanisms and international rules on cross-border capital movements within the UN system, the WTO and as an important part of economic trade relations. Economic driving rules must include social standards, employee rights and environmental regulations, to name a few. And finally, when it comes to the World Bank, which the interpellant brought up, I think it's right to mention that there have been quite a number of progress in the last year towards securing social standards and employee rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e493	In principle, I would like a positive approach to globalisation, both in trade and in the economy. Globalisation offers increased opportunities for value creation, creates new opportunities for countries, businesses and individuals, and can help raise welfare levels in many countries. It is also obvious that these developments call for a more stringent set of agreed international legislation in order to avoid this globalisation increasing the gap between rich and poor, between those who have something or nothing, and those who already have a lot. That's this problem the interpellant is dealing with. We have no guarantee that this globalisation, which is basically positive, could lead to a fairer distribution of resources. And such a goal should have globalised trade and value creation. So it calls for political mobilization for international legislation, internationally accepted driving rules, which can prevent us from getting an injustice that increases not only economic tensions but also social tensions, and that can ultimately also increase political tensions. I would therefore like to support both the intention of the inter-pellant and the description of the political issues he raises. I am also pleased with the unconditionally positive attitude with which the Foreign Minister met the inter-pellant and which confirms the need to implement concrete measures. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, the subject is on the agenda of the special session. However, these proposals have been debated, they are controversial, and there is currently insufficient support for proposals that may affect international capital movements in order to counteract the negative trends, as the interpellant is concerned about. Currency speculations have to be limited, there is a broad consensus. But we're still looking for the good solution, which could be the tool to realize the intentions. I am pleased with the foreign minister's commitment. I noticed that Canada's solution can be the starting point for finding an answer to this. I also experience the foreign minister's response so that there is more than a polite response to the good intentions of the interpellant. For my part, it provides a good and optimistic basis for finding a good solution and ensuring that Norway has a proper pressure and commitment to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e508	‘Globalisation’ is used as a collective term for all the forces that make the world smaller, from the Internet to multinational giant companies. Clearly, the consequences of globalisation are great. But I am pleased that both the representative of Steensnæs and the Foreign Minister in their speeches also underlined the positive aspects of globalisation and the opportunities it offers. Of course, it's no wonder that a lot of the new stuff is happening, seems scary, and that some people have been successful in making political coins on fear. What is strange, on the other hand, is that so few think about what globalisation means, and what is really frightening about development. In my view, globalisation is at the heart of the fact that borders are becoming increasingly less important – at least in economic terms. It's nothing new. If we look at it historically, it has been that periods of dense international relations have also been the periods when the world has made the greatest material and cultural progress. It's not random. An open international society provides the individual with greater opportunities for expansion, and there is less ground for concentration of power and arbitrary exercise of power. It provides new opportunities for those parts of the world that are currently poor, it contributes to the rapid dissemination of knowledge and other impulses between countries, and it provides a world of greater cultural and social diversity. The society of globalisation is therefore far from scary. It provides better opportunities for the realization of the ideals that most of us believe in, and for individuals, such a society will be richer on challenges than on threats. When so many are afraid of globalisation, it is probably more afraid of change than of the fear of that society that change will lead to. The fact that globalisation involves change lies in the very word. Globalisation denotes a process, not a state. Most of the process is actually ahead of us. It is not that the world has suddenly become economically integrated over the last 10 to 15 years. We have been in a slow process of globalisation throughout the post-war period. The process has been speeding up for the last few decades, and yet it has started to do so. It is still the case that the main weight of what is produced in the world is sold in the same country as it is produced. You couldn't get the impression when you listened to Agent Dale's posts. And most of the saving continues to finance domestic investment. Most of them live in the country where they were born. So it's a long way to go to the global community. However, a fruitful debate on globalisation requires that both the opportunities offered by the open world society to which the processes lead be made visible and a reflection of the nature of the transition itself be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e523	I do not have problems seeing positive aspects of globalisation, but today we are discussing serious challenges that I thought were also clear to the Right. It's an important theme that travels through the interpellation. Constant monetary crises and the recognition that modern financial crises can be highly contagious have led to the demand for more market forces after many years now to demand increased governance from more teams. The overall objective must be to create a global economy with social development as its primary objective. At large international meetings in e.g. The WTO context has become clear that there are strong international movements protesting against an increasing gap between the poorest and the richest. This exposure must be taken seriously. The Asia crisis in 1997 made it clear that there is little needed to create major movements in the international financial structure, and it became clear how vulnerable some countries may be to international capital movements. Speculative forces that sought rapid profit were a prominent factor in the financial crises of the 1990s. From the outside, such a financial crisis may cause amazement, and it may seem like a strange game of paper. But behind such dry sizes were the countries that were hit hardest by the Asia crisis, increasing unemployment, increasing poverty and worsening living conditions for those who already had the most difficulty. The game of the speculators is a threat both to the economic security of people and to democracy. There is a need for measures to reduce the vulnerability to currency speculation, and there is a need to identify mechanisms to reduce the gap between the poor and the rich. SV has previously raised a Document No. 8 proposals for the introduction of an international tax on foreign exchange, so-called Tobin tax. As has already been pointed out, it intends to mitigate the short-term adverse effects of speculative capital movements. If it is to be effective, it must be introduced globally. It is positive that Norway – and as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, also the EU – will support Canada’s proposal to have an international investigation of such a charge. An international levy on foreign exchange trade could generate significant revenues. Revenue may contribute to the financing of the UN or be used for unhelping the poor part of the world. In this way, the fee will serve several good intentions. In addition to the Tobin fee, it is also proposed to introduce a fee on air tickets and a pollution charge. These are also taxes that could bring revenue to development, in addition to the sources we have today. A global fee on currency trading will take a long time to implement. There is a need to identify measures and driving rules that can be introduced in the short term and which can have an effect on the prevention of financial crises, the recovery of economic governance and cohesion between poor and rich countries. Norway must be involved in this, and the social summit in Geneva is a good opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e545	I don't think there's a need to say so awfully much after this debate. It's pretty interesting to have listened to it. It is about quite fundamental objections to our entire economic system, to globalisation, and then it all ends up in just under half an hour with descriptions and spells, without any specific proposals, and without any specific proposals that have the chance to be adopted. So in many ways this is a sort of last little round from the opponents of globalisation, without really having any more political power left in the matter. That's the nucleus itself. It's the last half-hour of anti-globalization people we've been through. Honestly, I think we should now put aside some of these illusions and look into our eyes that we are living in a globalized world, a world where online economies become more important and more important. Instead, there are a few important things to consider, and it is to ensure that the economies are healthy, to ensure that the economies of developing countries are healthy and growth-oriented, and to put behind the dreams of the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e557	It was the post of the representative from the Right who got me to take the word to a short comment. The representative, Mr. Børge Burnde, states that we should have a reflected relationship with the process of globalisation, and he is quite right in that. But a reflected relationship also means that a escape to opposites. What this debate is all about is not for or against globalisation; the debate is about actively identifying the problems of social development, which are very deep. I thought we were actively trying to address these problems, should have praise and support and not be criticized on a rather unclear basis. I've listened here and I've learned that we, who are running counter-statues, coin people's fear of the evolution that's going on. This is not the case at all. That's not what's behind us raising questions of such a nature, and hopefully with quite a lot of weight. It must be obvious – I just want to repeat it as an example – that the extensive speculative economy is a real problem of democratic governance in individual countries and in the world as a whole. Ignoring this will reflect a very low realistic setting for problems that we are forced to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e566	Now this might have been a debate between me and the interpellant, but I'm not going to end it now. Now I'm going to say something about what the representative Jan Petersen said. I have to say that I neither understand nor accept. He said that this is a debate on fundamental changes to our economic system. No, there are actually quite a number of people who believe that there are such changes that need to be made to preserve our economic system. There are not only people on the left in Norway and other countries who believe, but there are actually quite a few large capitalists who believe that you cannot live with this unregulated capitalism. So these are not the anti-globalization convulsions. In fact, there is a debate on how to cope with the good aspects of globalisation. I want to draw parallels to the situation that existed around the last century, when capitalism spread on the national level. Had it not been for regulation and austerity measures, it is unlikely that this capitalism could have survived. I think that's the situation now, too. If we are not able to take measures at global level, this globalisation is unlikely to go further. At least we do not get the positive effects of what the representative from the Right said should be taken into account, and which I fully agree with. What is meant by the Tobin tax – and the Nobel Prize winner Tobin is not at all a resistance to globalisation, I think – is to remove the speculative aspects of currency trading, that is, to add a levy that leads to a bit of sand in the machine and to remove the worst speculative movements, so that you can stand by what is healthy, that is, that capital can move across borders and go where it is needed. It is in line with the kind of regulation that has been carried out throughout the old century at national level, which has actually led to the maintenance of a type of market economy system. Had you not made such adjustments, it is unlikely that you would have made that clear, at least you would not have had the positive side out of the market economy systems that you then got.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e575	That being the case, it is no. 11 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e581	Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e587	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that all groupings which fulfil the conditions for listing by local elections to local government and county councils are fully treated in a non-discriminatory manner in the case of public financial support.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e751	In Case No. 9 the wrong configuration has unfortunately been made. The President will therefore propose that this matter be sent back to the Committee, so that we get a proper attitude to deal with. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e767	In Case No. 11 there is no wetting basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-2.ana.ud1978e776	There is no record.
