ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e60	The representative Hans J. Røssorde, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e71	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e74	On behalf of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and myself, I would like to make proposals to clarify as soon as possible the long-term effects of the EFTA Court’s decision of 20 May 1999 on the differentiated employer’s fee and Norwegian district policy, and the preparation of the work on a notification to maintain geographical differentiation and support levels in the rural policy after 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e79	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the cases are considered, the President will propose that this morning's meeting be interrupted for the Grand Council's Christmas meeting at 9 p.m. 13.45 and set again for the evening meeting at 2.30 p.m. 16:00. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e95	Just a brief reason why this proposal comes up. During this harvesting session, half of the ordinary Question Time has been necessary for the President to use the Rules of Procedure access to limit follow-up questions to one in order for matters on the agenda to be closed during the scheduled time of the morning meeting. The Presidency finds this situation unsatisfactory and, after consulting the group leaders, is in favour of the following interim measures: 1st@item: inlistbox The Presidency proposes an amendment to the Rules of Procedure which would allow a representative to ask one question in the ordinary Questionnaire on the next two questions. We do not propose any changes to the rule that a representative can ask a total of two questions each week for written answers and in regular Question Time. 2nd@item: inlistbox The same speakers used during the oral Question Time will also be used during the ordinary Question Time. So you use the speaker chairs on the floor during the entire questioning session on Wednesday. So this pulpit that I'm now using will not be used in the ordinary questioning. These measures will be put into effect from the first New Year Questionnaire for a probationary period until Easter 2001. The system will then be evaluated in order, if necessary, to be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure as a matter of urgency. The Presidency requests the agreement of this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e110	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1485]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e124	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1485]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e138	Inner. S. No 93 is an attitude of the Energy and Environment Committee on power exchange between Norway and Denmark. As is known, the Energy Act was adopted in the early 1990s and applied from 1992. It led, as you know, to the liberalisation of the electricity market also in the Nordic countries, and not just in Norway. What we can see today is that the decision taken in the Grand Duchy at the beginning of the 1990s on the electricity market has been very successful, and today it appears to be a model for the further deregulation we are now seeing in Europe. In this setting, one suggests that the power exchange between Norway and Denmark over the Skagerrak cable should be based on the same principles that currently apply to power exchanges between Norway, Sweden and Finland. It is essential for a functioning Nordic electricity market that transmission capacity between countries be made available to market participants on equal terms. What is now happening to the decision we are making today is the opening of the Skagerrak cable that gives third parties access. It will be an extension, and it will be a more efficient power market in the Nordic region. If this cable is not made available to the market now, it will be a step backwards in relation to the intentions of the Energy Act and the decisions taken at the beginning of the 1990s. The Committee has been involved in this cable and the distribution of costs here. But I would like to point out that the costs and losses of the cable systems will be covered by the central network system. One is concerned about how this increase will affect central network customers. One would point out that the conversion takes place at the same time as the changes in the distribution of the central network tariff where consumers are increased from 50 pst. to 60 pst. However, the Committee sees that consumers can benefit from the opening of the Skagerrak cable, mainly because the price buffer that currently limits the power exchange disappears. In this way, the power market will be more efficient and work better for all parties. All parties, except SV, agree to this setting, and this should then be on a solid political basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e155	On 9 March of this year, the central government went off on the gas-fired sac. In all its arguments, the current Prime Minister paid particular attention to the fact that Norwegian gas power plants would replace imports of highly impurising coal power – first Danish coal power plants were used in the argument, but to make it even worse, a Polish coal power plant also connected as a scare. The SV and the centre batch have subsequently tried to obtain evidence that increased emissions from gas power plants in Norway would, however, reduce total emissions in Europe. This documentation seems to be waiting. To avoid the opposite documentation, SFT has been pushed by the Government. Following budgetary decisions, a possibility now exists to impose a certain amount of power on deliveries from new renewable energy sources. This will stimulate the development of alternative energy sources in Norway. This is a proposal that SV has also joined. Why can't one do the same when it comes to importing and purchasing power? We are all aware that production from such sources represents a monthly amount of electricity production, among other things. magazines in Denmark. Now there's a long way from being a power deficit in Norway. But if that situation were ever to arise with gravity, it would be unfortunate if Norway were involved in setting up highly impurising coal-fired power plants in Denmark. Nor does Norway have to contribute to the improvement of growth conditions for alternative renewable energy in other countries through the legislation. It is therefore strange that no party supports SV's proposal to sort this out. I'll deal with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e164	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1485]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e180	This setting addresses the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and ground-level ozone. The Gothenburg Protocol, signed by 31 countries, including Norway, shall regulate national emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, ammonia and volatile organic compounds with the exception of methane. It is a continuation and improvement of previous agreements. For Norway, this agreement is important, since more than 90 pst. of acid rain on Norway comes from emissions from other countries. The Gothenburg Protocol is likely to result in Norwegian watercourses becoming less acidic and the need for watercourse liming can be reduced in the long term. The Committee is aware that from the 1980s until now, areas with acidification damage to countries have been reduced as a result of emission reductions in Europe. The new Protocol shall provide for the continuation of the results achieved. The Committee has reason to believe that the outcome of the new protocol will be that areas currently exceeded by tolerance limits for acidification will be reduced by about 70 pst. relative to 1990 levels. The Committee is aware that the follow-up to the Protocol could lead to an increase in the cost of shipping if decisions were taken to implement measures for this sector. The Committee is aware that the economic impact of possible measures on shipping has not been clarified, as the Government has indicated that it will return before any decisions are taken. The Committee has been concerned about the emphasis being placed on implementing measures and instruments to ensure that commitments can be met at the lowest possible cost. The Committee is aware that the Government will come back with an assessment of instruments and concrete proposals to fulfil our obligations under the Protocol in the most cost-effective way possible. An overall committee is therefore concerned that the instruments and measures taken do not distort competition for Norwegian industry and business. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, believes that there are grounds for establishing a fund based on the sulphur tax. The Fund shall be used for environmental measures in the process industry and make the sulphur levy more targeted. This majority therefore asks the Government to assess the environmental benefits of setting up a fund in relation to the current scheme. According to the Progress Party, today's SO2 tax is purely fiscal, which has no environmental impact whatsoever. We are also aware that none of the countries with which the process industry in Norway competes have imposed a similar charge. The Progress Party considers that a positive initiative has been taken by the process industry to ensure that the current fee is liquidated and replaced by an obligatory agreement with the authorities, so that the industry pays what is the current SO2 tax rate into a fund to finance clean-up measures. We therefore take a positive view of a recording in which today's fiscal charge is converted into a purely environmental charge. In our view, it is a sensible way to finance clean-up measures that help to resolve the national commitment contained in the Gothenburg Protocol. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e201	Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e204	There's only one area in this case that creates a little bit of a headache. That's the rate at which this is going to happen. I would then challenge the other parties to terminate their proposal. That's why all the parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, want to reduce SO2 emissions. All parties are certain to consider whether to create a fund that targets the effort on the SO2 fee. So it's just a question of how fast we can get on with the measures, which are all necessary, but there's only one proposal that says something about progress. Of course, it is quite possible to be able to present proposals for measures already in the revised national budget. It is strange that we are not able to initiate the process here today, which not only respects the intention of the Gothenburg Protocol, but also contributes to concrete environmental improvements as quickly as possible. I would like to address the proposal of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e211	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1485]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e227	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 15 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e236	An overall committee highlights the importance of the revenues generated by the petroleum activity and will continue to have for the development of the Norwegian welfare society. We still have significant oil and gas resources that can and should be used. Against this background, strengthening the competitiveness of the continental shelf is an important challenge. This is the main theme of the Communication, and this main theme is addressed in depth and concrete terms. The proposals that are being promoted have been widely accepted by the Committee. Simplification, stability, predictability, technological development and internationalisation are key keywords. It has also been suggested that a better balance be struck in the operational environments, with greater room for smaller companies. In order to make the necessary progress in this improvement effort to strengthen the competitiveness of our continental shelf, the Committee calls on the Government to submit a Communication on progress in the work on the various proposed measures already in the context of the revised summer national budget. There has been a awareness throughout the oil era that reserves will end. Technological developments have led to an increase in industry prospects beyond what was once predicted. The starting point for the consideration of the communication we are discussing today is that the prospects of the petroleum industry are longer than its history. It's a different perspective than one had when these questions were discussed just a few years ago. It is important to have this perspective clearly stated when discussing the adjustments that are now being made. The Committee stresses that Norway should have the ambition to be a leading country as an energy producer, but this should be combined with active efforts to be a leading country also on environmental issues. This is an ambition that obligates. Health, the environment and safety have been more central to the work of the Committee than to the notification under consideration. Our starting point has been a signal from the Oil Directorate that gives cause for concern. There is talk of increasing the level of risk and, in some cases, of lower company follow-up. There is a broad desire in the Committee to have a review in a wider range than the notification makes, because even if the committee does not want to blackmail the situation, you want to take it seriously. That is why a new communication on health, environmental and safety issues related to the oil sector is requested for treatment at the next Storting harvest. The rescue helicopter service is also central to all those who are engaged in the activities on our continental shelf. The central government had agreed that there would be a message about the rescue helicopter service to Stortinget before the summer. It didn't come, and now we know that the new government is sending a message to the spring. The centre parties and SV already want to make it clear that, in connection with that message, we will enter for a response time of 15 minutes, as the Fostervoll committee setting adds. The majority will wait, but hope very much that the conclusion that the centre parties and SV are now reaching, will get broad support when this case comes to treatment in Stortingen to spring. This is a very important matter for all those involved in offshore activities and for the coastal population in general. In one area it is the same in the Committee. This concerns the question of the limit on the time at which the handling of investment matters is to reach the Storting. That limit is proposed to increase from DKK 5 billion to DKK 10 billion, and that is the reason for the time-use and that companies are adapting to the current limit of DKK 5 billion, which is used as an argument for the Government's proposal. The left, the other centre parties, SV and the Progress Party do not share that view and want to keep the current limit of 5 billion kroner. We point out that the treatment period in Stortinget has been down to two to three months, even shorter than that for matters of this magnitude, and that should be an acceptable treatment period. The Centre Parties and the SV have also expressed the wish to submit to spring an overall action plan to develop CO2-free technology for gas power plants. It has not been agreed by the majority, but I hope that, together with the action plan that comes to spring, in order to achieve our Kyoto targets, it will come with a plan of action for the development of CO2-free gas power plants. What we are dealing with today would naturally belong to the organisation of Statoil and HEAD, because it also concerns the competitive situation on the continental shelf. Now we know that this matter will be dealt with in the spring. From the left, it is a starting point that we want to contribute to a broad compromise around the Statoil organisation and the DEA, and that the consensus that in many ways characterizes today's setting can also be at the root of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e255	As the rapporteur explained, there is a broad consensus in the Storting on most areas of oil and gas policy. It gives the industry a signal of stable framework conditions, which is important in an industry where large and long-term investments are made. Oil and gas activities have had a significant impact on the social development of our country in the last 30 years. The income from the business has enabled us to build one of the best societies in the world. But we must not forget that it has had its price. The extraction of resources poses a significant risk to health, life and the environment. Unfortunately, we have to note that many workers have lost their lives or been injured in major and minor accidents. This despite the high priority given to safety and the working environment by the authorities and oil companies. We have recently received signals that indicate that the risk is increasing, and that safety has become worse. The daily newspaper, Friday, December 15th, indicates that the OD has been reported on 464 so-called adverse events on the base until the end of November. It's serious. I will be very careful to have too strong opinions about the reasons for this. But I have a perception that a strong focus on efficiency has led to less focus on safety. We are also in the situation that many of the platforms get a longer life span than planned because they are able to extract more oil and gas than they thought when the field was being expanded. This obviously requires substantial investment in maintenance, so that the age of the installations does not increase the risk of accidents. The oil notification refers to health, environment and safety. However, I believe that it is necessary, not least for all those working in the industry, that the Storting should be given the opportunity to discuss the many aspects of security as a matter of their own. I am therefore pleased that the municipal minister will present a big message on this until next year. Many companies are licence holders on the base, with operator responsibility or as participants. The companies are different. And they individually participate in their competence. We also know that new and smaller companies want to be licensed on the base. The Committee supports the Government in opening up to smaller oil companies, the supplier industry and so-called downstream companies on the base. Of course, a prerequisite is that they possess the necessary competence. I think that in small and marginal fields and in tail production in older fields, these companies could be a useful supplement to the larger companies, and we'll get better resource use and greater value creation. While we see new companies knocking on the door, we also experience a technology development that opens up huge opportunities. Technological developments make it possible to extract oil and gas at large sea depths, and we are able to increase the extraction rate of existing and new fields. This makes the industry more profitable, and fields that were previously marginal are now being developed. The supplier industry has been through a difficult period. Many workers in this industry are still affected by word-dried drought, with subsequent lay-offs and lay-offs. Fortunately, there are things that indicate that it will turn around. New contracts have been concluded, engineers can turn on computers and many yard workers can start welding again. This is how companies will keep well-qualified workers. This is important for enterprises, but also for the many communities where enterprises are located. We have tended to think of the oil and gas industry as a national industry. Of course, that's wrong. The Norwegian oil companies are represented in many parts of the world and participate in large fields of land and sea. Through their activity on the pedestal, our companies have developed a competence in marine oil extraction as there is demand elsewhere in the world. In the internationalisation of our oil and gas industry, we must also ensure that the supplier industry is included. It also has significant competences which should make it absolutely competitive. Working with the oil message, we have confirmed that we have an oil and gas industry that believes in the future and that shows the ability to renew. I'm glad. We want oil and gas resources decades in the future on a Norwegian base, and we have an industry that is increasingly taking off in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e274	It is particularly important that we constantly focus on the framework conditions for oil and gas activities, which are one of our most important industries, and which provide the country with high incomes. After a time of high oil prices and high dollar rates, we've had a fall in oil prices over the past few weeks, but at least that's not dramatic. However, it is important that we have framework conditions that make Norwegian cap more robust for the fluctuations in oil prices. We all remember what happened last time we had a sharp drop in prices. A number of expansion projects were postponed or scrapped, and this had a dramatic impact on the supplier industry with both lay-offs and redundancies. This in turn led to the fragmentation of environments of competence that had taken decades to build up. We will always have some fluctuations in the rate of expansion on the base, but it must be a goal to avoid the dramatic failure we had a short time ago. There are a number of sensible measures in the communication we are discussing today that will improve the competitiveness of Norwegian capital, but this alone is not enough. I also look forward to a review of the tax regime of the socket, in which, in our view, we have to remove the gross taxes on the base first, as well as create a tax regime that more often divides economic premises and premises. This is probably the most important measure to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian soil so that the industry is more resistant to the fluctuations in oil prices. The message adds to another and more diverse image of the actor on the socket, and we see this as very positive. By getting rid of companies that are more specialised in niche and tail production, one will also benefit from a much better use of our petroleum resources. The party also takes a very positive view of the simplification of the application dossier, and we are particularly pleased that group requests are being opened up, which we have raised on several occasions in the past. We would like to call for the award of concessions to be based on the principle of tendering. This will better facilitate non-discrimination and competition on the base, and may also strengthen the opportunities of Norwegian companies for international investment. It is also important to have sound rules in the field of health, environment and safety in the oil sector and to have effective control and supervision of compliance with the safety rules. Unfortunately, we have received various signals that the turns have sometimes gone a little fast. I am therefore pleased to draw up a separate communication to the Stortinget focusing on health, the environment and safety aspects of the work on the socket. I would like to take up with this the proposals No. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right, and Proposal No. 3, on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e295	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e298	The position on oil and gas policy, which Stortinget is dealing with today, shows that there is much agreement on the main lines of the batches. It is important that, in an area of such importance to Norway, it is possible to find compromises that can bring together as broad an upturn in the Storting as the setting indicates. The Committee attaches great importance to Norway being a significant energy nation, while at the same time being a priority country in the environment. Of course, the Christian People's Party is committed to the objective of an ambitious environmental effort in relation to oil and gas extraction. We believe that thorough environmental analyses need to be carried out in relation to new exploration and extraction areas before new activities start, not least in relation to our large fishing resources. The Christian People's Party is also committed to considering the establishment of zones for oil and gas-related activities, including: in the Skagerrak and the Barents Sea, in order to protect environmentally highly vulnerable areas. One of our biggest challenges on Norwegian continental shelf is to further develop and strengthen the competitiveness of the base, as a result of an international petroleum industry in major changes. Several large oil companies have joined together in larger units to strengthen their position and to improve their ability to meet tomorrow's challenges. Norwegian oil and gas activities must also take this into account and make changes and adaptations that maintain and strengthen Norway's position as a significant actor in the petroleum sector. These include: in this context, it is important to facilitate the necessary reorganisations and changes in the ownership structure of Statoil and to clarify the role that the company will play in the future. This will give the Stortinget the opportunity to discuss more thoroughly during the treatment of St.prp. No 36 for 2000-01, probably in the spring of 2001. However, the centre parties would have preferred this proposition to be dealt with in the context of today’s notification, as the organisation of Statoil and SEE significantly affects the work on several of the objectives outlined in the notification, as the central government in its time provided for. The Committee has expressed its opinion on health and safety concerns on the socket. There have been signs that the level of injury is increasing and that efforts in this area have not been adequately addressed. It is important to stress the need to set ambitious targets for the safety of our oil installations. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Government has announced that it will come to Stortinget with its own notice on health, the environment and safety aspects of working offshore. Themes that should be included in such a message include: maintenance, environmental considerations and safety level monitoring. The government and the majority of the population will raise the limit from DKK 5 billion to DKK 10 billion for projects approved by the King of State Council. The justification is, among other things, this will facilitate the processing procedure and prevent unnecessary delays. The centre parties and the Progress Party disagree with this. The experience we have with these kinds of issues is that new issues of expansion have become a high priority in the Committee, which includes: as a result, the development of White Bear and Grane was completed in less than three months and thus did not represent a delay problem, as the majority claims. For the Christian People's Party and Centre, it is of great importance that the main projects be anchored through treatment in the Stortinget, which should be directly involved in such large investment projects relating to central resource management and important environmental issues. There is also much to suggest that planned projects over the next five years will be closer to the 10- to 5-billion-dollar limit, based on preliminary estimates of costs. As a result of low oil prices in 1999, the supplier industry experienced a drought that hit hard. This led to major restructuring measures, such as: resulted in significant downsizing. It is important to ensure competence and labour in this industry. To this end, the Committee stresses the importance of ensuring good framework conditions that are not too cyclical. The oil price varies greatly, which confirms the price level for the last year. It has led to higher activity in the petroleum sector and underlines the importance of maintaining skills and labour even during periods of lower oil prices and activity levels. The central parties agree that Norway, as an energy nation, should be seen as a leading country on the environmental side as well. These batches therefore want the development and use of cleaning technologies for gas power plants to be intensified. In addressing the energy message, the Centre Parties proposed a package of measures to stimulate the development and construction of gas power stations without CO2 emissions. This is important in relation to our Kyoto commitments. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the setting, where the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left ask that work on an action plan for CO2-free gas power plants be given priority, and that such a plan be presented to the Storting in the spring of 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e321	The revenues generated by the petroleum industry have played a major role in the development of the Norwegian welfare society. The oil and gas sector, together with maritime industries, is being promoted as the strongest and most significant business cluster in Norway. There has been a awareness throughout the oil era that the reserves would end once. However, technological developments in the industry have led to longer prospects for industry than ever had been predicted. In 1998, oil prices fell dramatically, and in many ways a more pessimistic attitude to the industry that has been stuck. It is therefore important to stress that the future prospects of the petroleum industry in Norway are significantly longer than its history. In the foreseeable future, this industry will be crucial for the further development of our welfare society, employment and value creation. This is an important perspective for the adjustment of Norwegian petroleum policy, and implies that Norway must continue to focus on development, education and research related to this significant business cluster. Therefore, the right is pleased that the Government, through this communication, adjusts the Norwegian oil policy course. We will then have more flexible, market-oriented and thus competitive conditions for the industry. The Norwegian continental shelf is in the process of transition to a more mature phase where the costs of deployment and operation can be increased, while at the same time opening up areas internationally for exploration and extraction. Despite the fact that one currently has a high oil price, a strength of the Norwegian cap must have its relative competitive position. The oil price is equal to the world, so it's the conditions of the different countries that determine where companies find it most sensible to invest their capital. On the right, it has been recorded that NOU 2000:18 on the taxation of petroleum activities has created an uncertainty which is unfortunate in relation to the need for clear foreseeable framework conditions for investments on Norwegian continental shelf. We would therefore stress the need for a quick clarification in this matter from the Government. It is not sustainable if this NOU stays in the department for a long time and thus counteracts some of the positive signals contained in this notification. It is precisely what this message is characterized by: positive signals. However, there are not so many concrete proposals. It is therefore essential that the Government immediately follow up the positive signals given in this message. However, the Right and the Progressive Party have also made two concrete proposals that would have improved this. The proposals would have an impact both on exploration activities and, in particular, on the possibility of several companies being able to carry out their research and development projects in Norway. We are also pleased that the Government is following up the previous proposals of the Advance Party on group requests. In particular, there is one area which has created serious disagreement with this Communication and there is a limit on which projects have to be approved by the Stortinge. Right supports the proposal to raise the limit from 5 to 10 billion kroner. But it surprises me that the Progress Party here is not involved in simplifying and red tape the rules for this particular industry. As far as research and development are concerned, the Right is very concerned about the development. The government has a lot of space in the message to talk about Demo 2000, while this project is being down-prioritized in the adopted budget. That is why we are very concerned about the signals contained in the majority opinion of the Labour Party and the centre on Demo 2000. These lots «demo 2000 needs to be continued in order to complete the nuclear projects under way». In the budget debate, the Minister responded to the challenge from the Right that the budget did not involve a directed liquidation of Demo 2000. With this note combined with the budgetary decision, there is a need for a new clarification as to whether the Government and the central parties want a managed liquidation of Demo 2000 in a short time. The right will combine public investment in research and tax incentives for R & D activities in business. In this case, and not least in the discussion of the issue of ownership of Statoil and future management of DöE, the Right will focus on two main objectives of Norwegian oil policy: 1st@item: inlistbox Strengthen the attractiveness of Norwegian socket to keep the level of investment and activity up.2. Reduce the dependence of the Norwegian oil and gas cluster on Norwegian pedestal through a stronger internationalisation. Thus, it is again in place to identify exactly the Government’s commitment to these two areas, both in terms of research and development and, not least, in terms of contributing to internationalisation. The safety of Norwegian pedestal has rightly been put increasingly in focus in the last year. On 27 March this year it was 20 years since the tragic ‘Alexander Kielland’ accident. At this year’s ALK conference ‘Broot link – what we learned’, it was concluded that a process had to be initiated to improve the security of society. That is why we are pleased that we are now quickly receiving our own big business message about the safety of the Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e359	The issue of ownership in Statoil and the future management of the EEAS is high on the political agenda. The exposure is large because the oil and gas resources are the common property of the people. The administration must therefore be managed in such a way as to benefit society. That demands a multiplicity of political parties and citizens behind it. Because the government put forward its view of things just before the weekend, it might have been tempting to start the debate now. But that would be unfortunate for the content of St.meld. No 39, which is on today's map, came completely in the shadow of Statoil and HOUSE. It's e.g. reason for attachment by the Government in the below-mentioned staging message to the Government in order to extend its powers on the socket. The matter of transferring power from accumulation to government is, in fact, all decided upon in connection with the adoption of the State budget. This means that most of the projects on the continental shelf will be able to be approved by the King in the Council of State and thus pass beyond the Storting. This is because the expansion limit will be moved from 5 to 10 billion kroner. It is alarming that in St.meld. No 39 there are no counter-figures at this point, especially because there are interesting questions about the relationship between magnification and government. On the contrary, the message says everything is fine. The size is still going to decide the really big issues of expansion, and the majority in the committee have added to a statement that the Government will inform the Government about the development of costs and profitability for the individual projects – i.e. no drama. Nevertheless, it is well known in Oil-Noreg that the time of the big fields is running out. At the beginning of 1999, the remaining part of the oil resources discovered was 15.7 billion barrels. Of these, 10.7 billion were in fields that are already in production or that are currently planned to be exploited. In this situation, the government will be on the track with proposals for seemingly taking over the control of everything that is small, while the Storting will be able to decide on really big issues, as it is called. The tick knows, as I said, that the small projects are limited to a total of $10 billion – not small at all – and that the sum of them will make up most of the remaining oil resources. So instead of connecting the Storting more strongly into the oil policy decision-making process, the opposite is happening. Of course, there must be strong arguments to suggest such a thing. But at that point, St.meld. No 39 little enlightening. The need for a shorter procedure is highlighted, but at the same time it is difficult to see that the changeover will bring particularly great benefits. So this case can become even an example that today, dominated by market economy rationality, it must be very little until democracy becomes the losing party. Last year, a seminar on constitutional issues was held in Stortinges. A theme was the management problem associated with minority governments. Many thought that the so-called magnificence increasingly appears problematic, but it was also demonstrated that power is still being transferred from magnification to government unnoticed by government constellations. I believe that the magnificence strengthens the position, particularly through foreign policy, with increasing implications for domestic policy, and through the macro-economy, where the Storting affects the image to a small extent. In this perspective, it is interesting to note that oil policy is also increasingly placed in the hands of the executive with its solid official bureaucracy. There are good constitutional arguments against such a development. In my opinion, they build up under the good note written by the representatives of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The extraction of oil and gas will, in the future, be more suited to the northern regions, and as a result, through oil policy, we will have to be able to deal with difficult conflicts of interest. The relationship with traditional fisheries should be particularly focused. The centre batch has underlined in a note that it should not be opened for seismic activity in areas where there may be damage to fishing. In St.meld. No 39 a pilot study is published to identify the need for consistency associated with near-coastal petroleum activities. At this point it should now be sunny that it needs, and that there is a hurry to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e376	In this room and in the Government, a very often busy one is how one uses the money from the North Sea business – above all – or how one cannot use it in relation to the oil fund, etc. There is little focus on the workers and on the security of those who produce this capital for us. SV is therefore very happy that a single store is behind the SV requirement for a separate security message. There is now a need for a proper review of health, environment and security issues, but – and that is important – it does not have to be such that you are now waiting to continue with the security measures you have started. On the contrary, it is good if you can announce your increased efforts to improve your security. There is therefore no good signal for all other parties in this room when they cut their budgets by 1 to 19 million. kr. So it's only SV that strengthens the Oil Directorate's ability to increase control and supervision – all the other parties are going down. Here the Government has a job to do relative to the revised budget. The environmental costs of oil and gas industries are high, and when we are also told that the Minister for Oil and Energy has to react to the advice of the own professional bodies and to a record large greenhouse gas emissions in the Balder field. So it's not just a matter of professional gas-fired bodies that have to be knuckled. On the socket, the Government chooses to ignore the advice given. The Labour Party government shows in climate policy that it is the ideology of the Progress Party that is winning. For the Minister of Oil and Energy, as for the Progress Party, climate problems are clearly something that SV and environmental movements have found. It is probably quite clear that the Labour Party does not take the climate problem seriously. It's a fact that anyone can see. And when the ESSO itself says that they have to close the production for only two days, it's completely insane that the State Council Act is to allow as much emissions as this is about. Holding back on the big oil companies is clearly more important than dealing with climate problems, climate problems that actually cost thousands of lives a year. This is unacceptable. I have sent a written question to the Council of State about this specific matter, but he can start by answering today, if he wants to. Environmental movements, fisheries organisations and SV want one to assess the creation of marine protection zones. In the same way that we have special protection areas on land, we must be able to have them at sea, not least to preserve and secure our common fishing resources, but, of course, also to preserve important areas for seabirds. And to be a little day-to-day – after the accident of «Green Ålesund», which is relatively small on this scale, 5,000 birds are threatened with oil beer. We can only imagine what would happen in relation to this problem during a fall storm in the Barents Sea if one had a blow out. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The government party will not be on an SV proposal to bring down a selection to evaluate this, or on a proposal from the centre to evaluate the protection zone problem. It's sad that the environmental interests seem to be losing again in the Workers' Party. For the AUF and others who pretend to be concerned with environmental issues, it has to be a very painful process as long as environmental interests lose their way. Norway and Norwegian companies have a high level of activity internationally. In this context, it is important that we have an ethical standard that tolerates daylight. It is therefore necessary to think about our own oil history and our policies in relation to foreign companies. Norway and the Norwegian company have a special responsibility to assume that the enterprise is not pure replacement, but actually contributes to a positive development for the nation state we are in, whether it is in Azerbaijan or Nigeria. I bring this up with SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e397	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e401	Natural gas is one of the most important natural resources in Norway. As you know, our gas exports started already in 1977 with large deliveries from the Ekofisk field to Emden. In 1999, exports of natural gas amounted to a total of 45.5 billion Sm3 and Norwegian gas exports amounted to under 2 pst. total world gas consumption. As a gas exporter, Norway is among the 10 largest in the world. About 10 pst. the gas consumption of Western Europe is covered by Norwegian gas. With these resources, we are as a nation in a unique position. If we look at the markets we export, they are used to using gas in different areas, they have a well-developed distribution network, and the distances to the large population groups and constellations are short. We see this in the context of the major environmental challenges, and that we have gas that is far less polluting than the alternatives, as I said, we are in a very favourable position. Looking ahead to 2020, a fully integrated gas transport network will be in place in Europe. We have to be there as one of the main actors. I look forward to the treatment of Statoil and HOUSE that we are going to have in Stortinget. In this context, we also need to look around, and there is the country that is or is going to be big gas producers. They're going to compete with each other to deliver gas, so prices are going to go down. Now Norway has to think very strategically in terms of our important commodity with which we are going to enter the markets. In Norway, as the main owner of the large companies, we also need to think carefully about how we – I was saying – should pair our feet during that period in Europe. This message, which we have for processing, has also included a section on the competitiveness of the Norwegian base. It can always be discussed, but I think that industry should think a little bit about what approach they are going to meet these challenges and discuss the framework conditions for Norwegian pedestal. The framework conditions for the Norwegian base are not only different percentages, but also the whole tax system. I hope that we can take this inward, and that we can also have a debate on a tax system that makes it possible for smaller companies to activate smaller fields and take up the remaining ones, which is important on Norwegian soil. This also gives us a real and better harvest. I also want to focus on another challenge that we have. These are the large CO2 emissions on the Norwegian base. I look forward to further discussions about this and getting a stronger electrification on Norwegian base, so that we can start gas power plants that have cables out to Norwegian base to get rid of the large and heavy CO2 emissions. I think it'll be useful in the longer term. What I could also think of a more thorough discussion of the future is the recruitment of this industry. There are many who like, and many who actually love, talking about this industry as an industry that goes into the sunset. But this is a forward-looking high-level industry. We have one of the most skilled worksticks in the world in different areas. Then I think we should be more optimistic about the future of this industry, so that future generations will see it as a challenge to address this business. Finally, I would like to say that – and we have done so too, it shows the budget – we need to focus more strongly on domestic use of gas. It's with pleasure we now see that the first steps have been taken here, but it also has to follow up to later. I refer to the pilot projects that Stortinget is now going in and supporting after the suspension of the Government. But what I could imagine is that an interministerial coordination of domestic gas use is now taking place, so that there is stronger coordination and a stronger value creation in Norway in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e422	Oil and gas industries are the most important industries in the country. The resources we are so lucky to have off our coast must be managed in a long-term perspective. The industry depends on us creating a stable framework and providing opportunities for further development. It has been and is important to have a broad political agreement on the main features of oil and gas policy, because this industry means so much to our country. I am therefore pleased with the opening up that the Government has received about the proposals in the oil message. I hope we can build on this deal in things that I know will come. The staging message on oil and gas policy has an important message: we need to simplify and improve the framework and make Norwegian pedestal more competitive. Petroleum resources in new parts of the world have become available to international oil companies. This has given the international oil industry several places in the world to choose from when to make its investments. In order to attract investment to the Norwegian base, we need to improve the competitiveness of the Norwegian base. Without a competitive socket, we will not be able to secure a fully-fledged resource management, which will result in reduced income to the community. We have also seen that several of the large oil companies have merged into larger units. This means that Norwegian companies face increased competition at home and outside. We must help to strengthen Norwegian companies so that they can meet this competition. I am pleased that the measures aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of the continental shelf are being extended by the Energy and Environment Committee. I would like to give the Storting feedback on progress in the follow-up to the message in the context of the revised national budget, as requested by the Committee. The significance of the environment will determine whether the petroleum industry can develop further on Norwegian soil. One must also be able to operate in an understanding of other industrial interests, special fisheries. It's important to me that we be able to balance these concerns in a good way. Measures that are now being implemented will improve this balance. In the next spillover of the oil and gas industry, I aim to clarify and balance the interests of areas where petroleum activity may conflict with fisheries and the environment. I am particularly concerned that we ensure that the petroleum industry is driven in a way that makes the workplaces safe and good for them to add, and with the lowest possible risk of accidents. This is something the oil companies have to take seriously. This area is also something I want to give priority to in the future. I point out that the Minister for Local and Labour has said that she will present her own report on health, the environment and safety on the base. The Minister of Justice has also said that the Government is proposing to come back with a message about rescue helicopter preparedness on the base. In recent years, the Norwegian supplier industry has been struggling with low order intake, lay-offs and cancellations. From 1998 to 2000, the number of additives in the oil industry has been reduced by 20 pst. Most of these were added to the supplier industry. The expansion projects Grane, White Bear, Ringhorne and Valhalle have led to activity at most offshore sites along our coast. Optimism is on its way back. The supplier industry is still in a transition phase and is facing major challenges. If we are also to make effective use of the resources on a Norwegian base in the future, it is important to have a competitive offshore industry based in Norway. At the same time, we need to see Norwegian socket as part of a new market, the world market, and Norwegian offshore industry as an international industry, with the possibilities and challenges it brings. In St. prp. No 19 for 2000-2001, submitted on 17 November this year, the Ministry made good the latest estimates of the costs of Åsgardkedkeda. After the proposition was made, the Ministry was informed that new students showed a new increase in costs. However, Statoil is of the opinion that the total cost of development will lie within the outlined framework underpinning its orientation. I will return to Stortinget with information about the actual cost of this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e452	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e455	The Progress Party has today made a proposal to base the auctioning principle on the award of concessions, but unfortunately it does not look like we achieve a majority in this respect, at least not at this stage. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: has the Ministry of Oil and Energy assessed the application of the principle of tendering for concessions? And does the Council not see that competition on a level playing field on Norwegian pedestal can also have a positive effect when Norwegian companies compete internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e462	From the day one of Norwegian oil policy, it has been important to have competition on a Norwegian base, a combination between foreign and Norwegian companies, between state doctors and private companies. At the same time, it has been important to be in charge of development. This is why a concession policy has been introduced, a concession policy that has so far produced the desired results. It is, of course, so that one more time – I believe – considered other ways to do this, including the auctioning principle. But I have seen no reason to change the policy in this area. Of course, it is important that those who have the possibility to operate on a Norwegian base do so in a way that returns to the Norwegian State, which is the owner of these resources. But we've thought that the best way to get this return is through the tax system and not by selling the pieces one by one. So I think we've had a system that's worked well. This is what we are developing now, for example by: to open for group requests and that kind of thing. When it comes to the issue of equality with other parts of the world where this type of activity is being pursued, there are very few areas with which I am aware that the policy is based on a mere sale of concessions on an auctioning basis. There are a whole lot of other types of licensing. Many of them are similar to the one we operate with in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e476	In the context of the budget, there has been a debate on Demo 2000 and the excellent proposal put forward by the central government in due course. I believe – without taking my mouth to heart – that neither the Council of State nor we are calling very loudly for the result of the budget in that context. That's why I'm busy figuring out how we can further invest in Demo 2000, since the Council of State didn't come up with that in its article. The representative Höie from the Right quoted a half-committee comment, which gives a completely wrong picture of what is actually happening, because it also says that it is necessary to invest in new areas that can strengthen the income potential, enable development, improve the environmental profile and increase the basis for exports, i.e. an increased investment in Demo 2000. We have several ways to do it, and that's what I want to challenge the Council of States. In the budget agreement, the Research Fund increased by 500 million. kr. The Research Council and the research effort received 100 million. kr more. A new grant scheme will be established with effect from 1 July 2001 at the rate of 200 million. In all these contexts, energy and the environment are a field of activity. I want to challenge the Council of State on the importance of his participation in the fight for these appropriations, and ensure that petroleum technology research is given a long-term commitment and ensures that the allocation currently in place in 2001 does not lead to a slowdown in Demo 2000. The ownership relationship we have with this also means – I hope – that the results you have achieved lead to increased efforts. The second thing I want to challenge the Council of States is CO2-free gas power plants and research and development efforts in that context. In the past, the Labour Party has stated that they wanted to contribute to a package of measures that we proposed in March this year. And my question is, When does the action package come? Twenty million. In our opinion, kr is not enough to contribute to the investment that needs to be made in the context of climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e492	I see this line as, above all, supporting the Council of State's efforts to support research in this area as well. Of course, I take this supported one with me. When it comes to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, all in all, there was a small increase in research in this area, but it is true, as everyone here in the Chamber knows, that Demo 2000 has suffered a decline in the budget for the current year. What underpinned the Government's research policy is what emerged from the big research report, which was discussed in February of this year, where one of the four areas in which one has to focus on – energy and the environment is one of them. It is clear that there will be an important guide for the government to set up in this area, and for the distribution of funds made available. When it comes to CO2-free gas power and bets on it, I'm glad that there's a big deal that we have a potential to extract here, and that there was a breakdown of the funds that the government proposed in this area. It is such that the Government has warned that one in the spring will come back with an Climate Action Communication for the follow-up of our national actions and the international measures, including: Quota setting. I don't want to say 100 pst here and now. security that this with CO2-free gas power will be managed there, because it is the Environment Minister who is going to present that message, but I want to signal that it is very important for us to get a powerful research in this area, and we want the Storting with us in this work. In this area too, I see the line more as a signal that we want a common policy here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e503	In relation to Demo 2000, our concern was that half of the comments often give the whole truth. Therefore the question from Hilde Frafjord Johnson was good in relation to the fact that it was offensive, but the answer from the Council of State should in this way be equally offensive. And I don't see that it was, so we're still worried, but I hope that one here will include signals that this is a matter that the Storting is concerned about. My question to the Council of State concerns NOU 2000: 18. In my post, I presented a challenge in relation to when we get a clarification of what is the Government's position in relation to this question. The councils have probably, on the same line as the Right and Others, realized that this is a matter on which the industry is very concerned about getting a clarification. The Chairman of the Committee, Tore Nordtun, of the Workers' Party, has almost asked the Land Association of the Oil Industry, the OLF, to step up this matter, but it must be very difficult to proceed when the Government has not even set the tune. That's why it's necessary now to know, when is this case coming? When does the Government's position come? The next is: in relation to this matter, the Council of State will follow up the clear and good intentions contained in this Communication, and not least follow up the good analysis that the Council of State itself made today in its intervention in relation to the competitive situation of investments on Norwegian pedestals in relation to other areas. Will the Council of State in this matter make an extra effort to reach out to its colleague in the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e512	I can assure Höie and others who may be interested in it, that I make such an effort every day, with good results. I also want to make sure that we do what we can to carry on Demo 2000, and that is our ambition. When it comes to the issue of tax policy, I understand that there is a desire for clarification, but, after all, there has now been only normal progress in this matter. So it became a NOU late this spring/early this summer. The government has sent it out on the phone. It is now in the internal hearing. The plan is that this should come to Stortinget so early that Stortinget will treat it before one leaves each other this summer. I can't say an exact date, because there's another department that's going to file this case. But the ambition is quite clear: this should be a matter for Stortinget to be treated for the spring, and then of course we get back to the contents then. However, it is clear that we have now provided a big message showing a direction, and it must also be effective when dealing with this matter and the level of taxation on Norwegian base, not least the tax system on Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e519	I will once again focus on the new powers that the Government has acquired in development matters on the base. After being inserted here in the Chamber, it could be expected that the Council of State had presented the arguments that speak for the conversion that is taking place here, for we have seen little of such arguments in St.meld. No 39 for 1999-2000. In addition, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he thinks it is straightforward that in this way power is being brought from the Storing to the Government. Instead of linking the Stortingen more strongly into the oil policy decision-making process, the opposite is true here. How do the Councils assess this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e529	First of all, I have to make it clear that a big message is a proposal from the Government to the Storting, and then it's the Storing that makes the decisions. In this case, there's a multiple on Stortinget that thinks that one can handle these questions in a different way than what has been the case up until now. I do not agree with the representative Dale when he says that this significantly affects the power relationship between the Government and the Stortinge, because this is a case-by-case matter. Oil policy is being drawn up in the oil notification and, in more general terms, is linked to the annual budget for each year — not in relation to individual cases. My experience is that all the issues raised during the 1990s received approval from Stortinget simply because the Stortinget had provided general guidance on how the policy in this area should work in advance. And it works so that once you've been given permission to search and find something, you should also be allowed to extract these resources when you get that far. That's why I want to say first of all that I don't see the big contradiction that John Dale outlined, primarily in his post. It is the case that in recent times we have experienced considerable fluctuations in the offshore market. When we started working on these questions, our wish was to get the most stability possible and to get to the framework conditions that make the Norwegian base attractive. We then went through a series of measures, and this measure was one of them. I think we can now get a better and faster procedure. Moreover – and not insignificantly – I believe that we now have a more realistic budgeting. Well, we've had examples of a little bit of unrealistic pints below this limit to increase the excess. I also believe that some of the projects that were naturally linked were split up as a single project in order to avoid having to come to Stortinget. At least there's something you can't do right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e538	I would like the Council of State to come up with a little bit about the actual conditions associated with the climate problem. As I said in my post, I feel that the Labour Party follows in its practical policy the philosophy of the Progress Party that there is no climate problem. This is illustrated by the fact that the Workers' Party, which is in favour of a certain number of gas power stations – I do not know how many – only gives authority to it. One will now have a strong boost in private car transport, and one will get more traffic on the roads by moving the traffic from road to road. And then one of them has the last example, where the Council of State gives Esso permission to torch 150,000 m3 of gas. Is it such that there is a climate problem, and are the examples I mention, an expression that the Labour Party is taking the climate problem seriously? Point 2 is related to the kind of functions of the State Pollution Control Agency, SFT, and the Oil Directorate shall have when the Workers' Party is in its government position. We felt that SFT was being instructed in gas power cases, and after Dagbladet, the Directorate of Oil does not receive assistance from the Council of State when it comes to its professional recommendations. What kind of function should these professional bodies have in the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e547	It is quite right that there is a lack of coherence between the SV and the Labour Party when it relates to a number of instruments related to climate policy. But I still want to hope that we don't bring any debts that the other party for that reason is not concerned with these questions. The Labour Party has since come to the agenda, wanted to take care of and actively address the fight against climate problems. But in our thinking, this is an international question and therefore needs first and foremost international solutions. It is also one of the reasons why the Labour Party has been a driver for reaching an international climate agreement, which we have been able to confirm far by way of confirmation that the world would be involved in, through the Kyoto agreement. And then we're all going to hope that one goes further in that process, and that we're going to have a system that every country has to agree to, Norway included. Then there are some concrete questions related to a field in the North Sea, and then it's not that the ministry has somehow overestimated the SFT in that context. In the Balder field, there was a technical problem that made it impossible for one to keep the volume that was previously agreed upon. It's our correspondence, back and forth, in this area, and one's got a new volume, a volume that's much lower than what Esso applied for, and that has actually led to Esso having had to reduce its output in this area. We're following this very closely, and so Esso has said that they're going to improve these things in the first quarter of next year. I mean that the thing is also handled correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e556	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1486]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e572	At the request of the municipal committee, the president will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e579	There is a need for a stronger search light on health, the environment and safety on the base. It was a review theme in connection with the previous case, St.meld. No 39 for 1999-2000. There is such a trade-political agreement to fulfill the intention in Document No. 8:90 for 1999-2000. In its proposal, SV extended 12 areas to which different health, environmental and safety aspects are attached. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, in his letter to the Committee, is doing well for measures that are currently being worked on. It also sees the need for an own message, and it also elaborates on the additional themes that are relevant to such a message. The Committee is of the opinion that all the aspects listed are taken into account. At a private seminar in October, and also during a visit to the North Sea, the Municipal Committee itself noted several of these areas. The Committee expresses concern at the signal emerging in this context. From the Centre Party's side, we would particularly like to highlight the oil directorate's emphasis on an alarming development. This includes: List the developments of so-called events reported to the Oil Directorate. While the number of reported events in 1996 was 139, 423 were reported in 1999, and in 2000 the number was per year. September 5, 333. Other statistics support this image. With regard to the content of the message, the Committee draws attention to the following issues: age of personnel, age of devices, maintenance, change processes, level of security monitoring, environmental protection, employee participation and supervisory powers. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State wrote that it had as its objective a communication in the autumn of 2001/ Spring 2002. This is the background for -- I think I want to say -- the little mischief about the progress of the committee's configuration. We mean the urgency of a personal message. The majority want a message soon, so it can be handled in the autumn of 2001. I also understand that there is already a wide agreement in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. The Committee is also concerned that, in the meantime, preparedness will not be weakened. It applies both internally on the carrier and externally in the form of a vessel and helicopter. As a case spokesman, I am aware that work is currently under way that can be defined as a strengthening of preparedness. Of course, I argued that such work would continue, and that any changes to strengthen preparedness would be made by the Directorate of Oil's approval procedures. I think what has been said today from different parties underlines the broad agreement that the governments involved here want to have in the work on a separate message. It must be a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e594	The rapporteur has made a thorough presentation of the views of the municipal committee, but only a few brief comments from my side as well. The health, environment and safety aspects of work related to Norwegian pedestals are a matter for the Municipal Committee, and there is no doubt that these activities are associated with high risks. So we can't stop doing anything. In order to be updated in the area, the Municipal Committee, as also mentioned by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, held a full-day seminar for a few weeks, analysing all security both to land and to water, and there are not least economic challenges associated with, for example: securing tunnels in Norway. Last Friday, December 15, we were able to read in the paper on record accidents following so-called adverse events on the base. Until the end of November this year, the Oil Directorate had been notified of a total of 464 incidents of adverse events. Only in a few years has there been an increase of between 200 and 300 pst. in such adverse events, and it is very worrying. Such events have a major accident potential both internally and externally, and therefore the safety of the socket is of fundamental importance. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister of Local Affairs stated that at present a number of important measures and investigations have been put in place which will be of major importance for a communication on the safety of the petroleum industry, including: a new comprehensive HMS legislation which is at public consultation. For this reason, the Minister of State recommended that an overall notification to the Stortinget focusing on health, environmental and safety aspects by working offshore should not be submitted to the Stortinget before the autumn of 2001 so that all important recordings can be grouped together in a single notification. There is no doubt that it is important to have full searchlights on health, the environment and safety on the base as soon as possible. However, this must be balanced against the need to provide the best possible basis for the size of this important area. Otherwise, I refer you to the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e609	As one of the proposers, I think it is very positive that both the Committee on Energy and the Environment and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection believe that this problem needs to be addressed more closely, and that this should be dealt with in depth by the Stortinget. It is also positive that the Council of State reports that this would also like to be done. So SV has a good day today, so far. It is fun, because it has often been strenuous, I have to say, to cooperate with the trade unions working in relation to the North Sea, and to experience the discussion here in the Stortinge, which is about how to use the money that you have spent in the North Sea, not anything at all, at least little, about health, environmental and security aspects related to the people who actually make sure that you have some money to spend in this country. It's time we got more focus on this. That the Storting is consensual, and that the Council of State also joins it, I thought it was important. Let me also clarify one thing. I know that there are some projects being carried out by the Council of State that are in progress. It is very important for me to say that of course none of these must stop, but one must go on with it. In this case, security needs to be prioritised and not waited for the message to be displayed. And then I finally want to challenge the Council of State when this is about establishing e.g. a Security Directorate, where one collects all the control and supervision functions, everything that is safe to do into one house, to put it that way. Could the Council of State philosophize a little about it, if she doesn't have any particular opinions about it? For some of the things I've learned about this case, there are a lot of cooks who have something to do with different things on a Norwegian base, so there's a challenge there. In these words, I'm looking forward to having a crash message about offshore security.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e620	Let me first say that I am pleased with the Big One's commitment in this important area, and as the Storting is familiar with, next autumn, the Government will come back with its own big message about the safety and working environment of the petroleum business. There I believe that all questions need a broad and thorough discussion, also because it is quite a long time since the last time a separate communication was submitted in this area, in 1993. As the Stortinget is aware, in 1998 and 2000, own safety chapters were developed in oil reports submitted by the Ministry of Oil and Energy, St.meld. No 46 for 1997-98 and St.meld. No 39 for 1999-2000. There is currently a major revision of legislation in the field of safety and health at work that will lead to simpler and more transparent legislation for both industry and administrations. This is planned to enter into force in 2001, as the Stortinget is known. In recent years, the Directorate-General for Oil has found that industry has opted for minimum solutions to challenge the regulatory framework. Analysis and risk assessment show that, unfortunately, the potential for major accidents and the likelihood of major accidents has risen. At the same time, analyses carried out by the Oil Directorate show that the injury rate on the Norwegian pedestal, which has fallen over previous years, may be turning around. The Oil Directorate also records an increasing number of adverse events in the establishment. In my view, these aspects together mean that there is also a need to provide the Storting with a broad representation of the safety and working environment conditions on the Norwegian base and of any measures the safety authorities will propose. I can also inform you that the Oil Directorate is now working on a project on the development of the risk level on Norwegian pedestal. The aim is to develop a model to assess the level of risk and to produce annual analytical reports for Norwegian pedestal. This is a project I find very interesting, and I think the industry also has great expectations. This work will therefore constitute an important basis for the contribution of companies and authorities to the safe operation and, in my opinion, also constitute an important contribution in relation to the message to be delivered to the Stortinget. I can also inform you that there is a contact forum recently established where the authorities, industry and employee and employer organisations are represented. The Contact Forum is intended to address and discuss relevant safety and working environment issues at the establishment on a Norwegian footing. In my opinion, it would be natural and appropriate that this forum could also provide input into the scope and content of such a safety message. Moreover, I have noticed all the proposals that the Municipal Committee has on the subject of the message, and I believe it is natural that all the key aspects of safety and the working environment will be given a thorough mention in the message to come. To the last question from the representative Langeland about his own directorate or department, I have to say that I cannot take it on a tight arm, except that I think there is quite a broad consensus that, with regard to the question of security in a broad sense, even within what we have discussed here today, there is probably a need for some more cooperation and coordination than we may have seen in some cases, so of course, the government is also concerned about. But how and what the answer is to that, I don't have the fasits on here and now. We have to work out that thoroughly first.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e641	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1486]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e649	Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e655	The President shall refer to the oral adoption by the President of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain on the temporary amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy: § 53 nr. The third sentence shall be replaced by the following:‘A representative may ask one question in an ordinary Question Time’. The amendment shall enter into force immediately and shall apply until the end of March 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e687	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate environmental limitations related to the purchase and import of power, in order, inter alia, to: imports of power produced by highly polluting coal-fired power stations can be avoided.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e712	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e722	It concerns proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. An identical proposal was made in connection with the financial position and was also downgraded. I would like to call on the Progress Party to turn it into a transmission proposal as it is now asking the Government to look at various measures to reduce SO2 emissions. If the Progress Party does not turn it into a transmission proposal, I would recommend the Right-wing Group to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e729	As far as the President understands, this has already been considered. The question is: should we vote directly on the proposal? - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e732	We'll start by voting for proposal number. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to put forward concrete proposals in the revised budget for 2001 to reduce SO2 emissions by making use of the revenues from the SO2 levy, for example. investments in clean-up measures.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e744	We are voting on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the creation of a fund, in which the sulphur tax from the process industry is levied. This fund shall be used for environmental improvement measures in the process industry.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e771	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to set up a selection to assess whether it is necessary to establish special protection zones on a Norwegian base.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e795	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requires the Government, from the next concession round, to base the auctioning principle on the award of concessions’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-18.ana.ud1669e809	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with an assessment of opening new areas for exploration activity.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up the Hervik Committee’s proposals on tax incentives for R & D activities in industry.’
