ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e89	The called alternate of Oslo, Ann Kathrine S. Tornås, has taken the seat. On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended to take account of tomorrow’s agenda, so that the minutes of the Odelstinget meeting will be held tomorrow, Friday 9 June, after the final part-session. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e106	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other party groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no opportunity for a change of line after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e115	Urban and building lists are local groupings without a common batch organisation, established to meet local needs. The only common regional or national policy feature of the urban and rural lists is that they are composed of committed people in local communities, often cross-political. It is not entirely unusual that a municipal government representative from a rural list is the county representative of a party. But we also find candidates without anchor in a batch machine. Those who put on these lists without party anchor are people with local involvement who do not want to be bound by programs other than the purely local ones. State aid to political parties is a necessary cost that we pay to have a living democracy with parties to care for more than the needs of a community. The established batches have a three-part organisation with local, county and main organisation, and the batch support shall contribute to the operation of the work at both levels and across them. The established parties shall develop a comprehensive policy that takes account of both local, regional and national policy considerations and the batch programmes shall be distributed among the population. The programmes are the basis of choice between the various parties and therefore of the utmost importance for a functioning democracy. All of this gives the established batches an expense that the city and building lists do not have. Therefore, it would be unreasonable for this aid to ensure that the batches of the economy do this overall work to be distributed equally to local groupings which do not have or take responsibility beyond local level. It's been rattled with the shackles in Bygde-Norway. The urban and rural lists have ‘tried’ to organise themselves in a nationwide association in order to force voice support. But then what's their peculiarity disappears, the one-sided local commitment that brings together people with different ideological platforms to work together for the local environment. Democracy must have room for such cross-political local groupings. Therefore, these groups are supported by the work they do locally, but there is no reason for them to be supported by non-executive work at regional and national level. In view of this, the majority of the Committee will reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e128	At the heart of the matter is the fact that there is today a considerable discrimination between political parties and other political groups that are legally making elections. In 1999, there were 225 town and town councillors who made choices. They are currently granted a representative grant from the municipalities, but they do not receive voting support in the same way as other political parties. In recent times, there has been an extensive debate here, too, on how to vitalize the population, get more life in local democracy, and simply create more commitment. There has been a great deal of concern that the proportion of voters voting is falling, and that a greater degree of apathy and political contempt is being seen in a way. At Hamar, the town and village lists got approx. 25 pst. the votes of the elections in the autumn. They got the rapporteur, and the work they do in this municipality has as much qualitative in itself as the work of established political parties. Then I find it strange that a majority in the committee in the vote is content to point out that this matter was dealt with carefully in 1974. So you haven't bothered to argue in relation to local democratic rights, rules of the game, etc., you've just shown this position from 1974. And that's 26 years ago! I think it bears witness to some kind of monopolistic desire to protect its own special interests. As established political parties, we should not be afraid of political groupings that actively engage in local democracy, working in local governments in the same way as the established parties. If you are defined as a political grouping or a political party, you have exactly the same tasks in the work you do in the local government. You have to deal with the same budget. You have to deal with the same things. You have to do the exact same work regardless of whether you have the same interests in national policy, or not. This is whether the same financial treatment should be provided for the same work carried out by local government. So the majority won't do that, which I think is all sorts of reason to react to. It is an important fundamental debate that we should take much more seriously than just rejecting the proposal that in 1974 it was meant like that. It surprises me. It also surprises me that this obviously seems to be a threat to established parties. I would say that the consequence of this, if any, is that these urban and rural lists gather and establish a new political party – what it must mean, and what it must be worth. In any case, I think that in order to assert the rights of democracy, to strengthen democracy, to strengthen the voters' perception of what they want to vote on in elections, we in this Chamber should be large enough to equalise all those who have an involvement in local politics. I think it is a great pity that this proposal is rejected without as much as a justification from the committee. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e141	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e144	The left has great sympathy for the minority proposal and for the reasons put forward in the vote and expressed in the Siv Jensen article. I'm not skeptical about equal treatment with the parties, which also have other tasks. It'll take the parties. I agree with Siv Jensen that this matter had deserved to be discussed in the light of the challenges facing our local democracy today. We have a common task of vitalising local democracy, and there these lists we are discussing today play an important role, and they will do so in the future as well. It is not up to this assembly to facilitate the continuation of their work. However, when we want to follow the majority’s position, it is linked to the fact that the questions discussed here are addressed by the Elections Committee, which is in the process of asking for its work. The Optional Committee presents its setting around the turn of the year, and it would be natural to discuss all the questions that the Optional Committee has to deal with, after the setting. It's left ready to do, and we're going to do it based on the kind of thinking that I've explained here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e151	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e154	I must say that I am very surprised at the rapporteur's argument to say no to the proposal in this case. But the arguments that she put forward get to be on her own account. Many town and town councillors hope that the Storting will end up treating all groups making choices in the same way as the established parties in terms of economic conditions. This is not an unreasonable claim. The City and Town List organisations have for a long time tried to get the parties represented on the Stortinget to speak. It seems that this has been of little use, because there is only one party that takes this seriously, and it is the country's second largest party, who has enough will to treat the town and town lists on the same lines as the parties. This discrimination on the part of the majority of the Committee may result in the setting-up of a new party instead of the urban and rural lists. In this context, it should be borne in mind that this political grouping together represents well over 100 000 votes. Today, these lists have a total of 25 rapporteurs, 31 rapporteurs and a total of 1 000 representatives of local government. When, overall, these are larger than some of the parties on the Storting that receive financial support today, it does not just become discriminatory – it becomes almost parochial. Today, registered parties receive even financial support even if they do not receive representation either in local government or in county councils. That's the rule. In addition, the representatives of the urban and rural lists do exactly the same political work as other political groups or parties. If you have any credibility on this issue, you should normally have found that city and villagers should have voice support in line with the established parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e165	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e179	I just have a few short notes. This is a unanimous opinion of the Committee, and it is no more controversial than to agree to the conclusions of the report submitted by the Riksrevision on the achievement of results in the Labour Inspectorate. The main criticism addressed to the Labour Inspectorate of the National Audit Office is that it has not been carried out sufficiently and has not been actively supervised in relation to the tasks entrusted to the Labour Inspectorate, which is, to a large extent, the objective of their own conversion. The Committee sees that there may be a lot of talk about the fact that the supervision that the Labour Inspectorate is currently carrying out is more demanding than before, that there is a more demanding quality assurance to be provided, and that it is therefore not so easy to count and compare what is done from one year to another. The Committee has also noted that the Department says that it is in a process of conversion and that it is endeavouring to achieve the objectives it has set itself. With these comments, I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e192	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e206	As in previous years, the National Audit Office’s annual report for 1999 shows a wide range of activities in many areas. All 51 administrative audit projects have been under way, 43 cases have been included in the national accounts, 24 full-time company controls and 28 jointly-owned limited liability companies, 6 state enterprises, 11 enterprises organised by separate law and 26 student partnerships – just to mention something. The National Audit Office has also carried out audit missions in international organisations and thus gained useful knowledge of how organisations manage the funds allocated to the Member States. Assistance to the national audit and mission of the OECD in relation to development projects for the national audits of Bulgaria and Albania are examples of a number of interesting projects in which the National Audit Office has committed itself. The Committee is generally pleased with the work of the National Audit Office. With regard to the documents sent to the Grand Duchy and examined in 1999, I refer to the Committee's own comments and decisions in the Grand Duchy on the various cases. The Committee has noted with satisfaction that there are small wage differences between women and men in the Riksrevision and that there is a 50-50 gender distribution in the senior management group. And that's good. Furthermore, it is positive that in 1999 the tournament is much lower than in 1998. This suggests that the Riksrevision now has fewer problems than in the past in maintaining qualified and requested labour. It is essential that the National Audit Office maintains a high level of audit and control. The strong commitment to competence/development is therefore a right and most necessary priority. In the previous year, the National Audit Office has raised several issues that deal with some significant failures in accounting and financial management procedures. Deficiencies in selected accounting systems and lack of accounting competence in enterprises have been detected. The Committee would stress that such critical circumstances must be followed up by the overall level of administration. As I said, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is very pleased with the work of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e225	I refer to the posts of the committee director, and also in the right, you are satisfied with the way the Riksrevision and the National Audit Board are doing their job on behalf of Stortinget. Overall, it seems that the Riksrevision's qualitatively critical and professional standards and integrity have a very good and discriminatory effect on the departments and underlying agencies, even though in recent days matters have been dealt with – I think New Rikshospital and Fatima – which show that there is still a way to go both in the department and underlying offices in the case of large projects. However, it also shows that the Riksrevisionen and Stortingen have similar conclusions in such major cases. The very critical and serious nature of the work carried out by the National Audit Office confirms that the system is working. It will therefore be an important task for the Agency to ensure that the overall and responsible level of management changes practices where necessary. Therefore, I would like to stress that it is serious when the Riksrevision last autumn saw the need to deal with the Prime Minister's office and the Ministry of Finance that it was found to be of poor quality in accounting work in several state agencies. The necessary measures have to be put into effect, and the Committee on Control has also pointed out earlier, and the non-priority of the departments in the areas of accounting and financial management has been stated. This may be partly attributed to weaknesses in the accounting systems in use and partly to the lack of competence of the staff responsible for accounting. There are serious weaknesses and the control activities of the National Audit Office must therefore ensure that the improvement of the quality of government financial management is an ongoing process. And I have the impression that this has such a high priority in the Riksrevision that we in the Stortinget will soon be able to see that it goes the right way, and that you will get less and less of such critical reports. Moreover, I refer to the statements made by the chairperson of the committee and the joint comments made by the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e234	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e248	The 1999 Annual Communication from the Steering Committee on Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Services concludes that the services perform their important tasks satisfactorily. In this way, we are pleased to note today that these three very central and I will characterise it as vital services for the security of the Kingdom both under parliamentary control and have the necessary confidence that will enable them to fulfil their role in terms of legislation and in terms of the need for protection. These central services depend on both parliamentary trust and trust in the people, and we can see that the work done by the Control Committee in cooperation with the services brings positive results. I also find it appropriate to note that the EOS Committee has carried out its tasks satisfactorily and in accordance with the instructions. It is reassuring to record that the sample now appears to have found a form of work with constructive dialogue with both magnification and services. Of course, it benefits everyone. The EOS Committee thus notes that in 1999 there have been no cases where there has been pronounced criticism of POT. In addition, they have not revealed any facts relating to FO/S' or to the proceedings, record keeping or decisions of military clearance authorities which have provided grounds for criticism or comments. So does the EOS Committee on Defence Intelligence. In other words, we can confirm that a year is behind us when there has been no criticism of any of these services. The EOS Committee addresses the need to repeal the last paragraph of Section 7 of the selection's instructions as a consequence of the removal of the right to love, cf. Section 7 of the Control Act. To that end, the Committee says that it is natural that the relationship is only taken up when the EOS Committee is being evaluated, which the Presidency has been given the task of the Stortinge to prepare before the end of this process. So you'll come back to it on that occasion. The EOS Committee was given new premises last year in Lower Volltgate in Stortinget's own building. It has given the members of the committee and the secretariat good employment opportunities. But the back is, of course, increased costs, and the sample reports increased costs due to shifting and improved area conditions. The fourth year's expenditure amounted to 2 417 000, and I would like to stress that the budget resources allocated are of course the financial framework to be worked within, regardless of new premises or not. Let me also thank the EOS Committee for the work they are doing on behalf of the Storting. The mission is special. The cases are both labour-intensive and partly special, which makes great demands on the members of the committee. I am pleased that a joint committee, and therefore a total collapse, expresses satisfaction with the way the work is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e263	I just want to make a few brief comments on this matter because this was a matter that there was a significant political wedding around last year when the Annual Report for 1998 was to be discussed. Therefore, it is quite important that the Storting should also note that in terms of last year’s dragonfight, namely whether there should be limits to the sample’s transparency related to the Defence Intelligence Service, the Control Committee now reports that there is dialogue. The issues raised by the case have been thoroughly addressed, and from the point of view of Storting's treatment, it is now planned to establish a transparency and control system that is satisfactory in relation to the tasks assigned to the sample by law and by instructions, and which ensures specific confidentiality in this service. That means that, in terms of the level of conflict that you saw in this area a year ago, you have entered a more constructive path, and I think it is important for the Storting to notice that. It is also important to note that those who may have been left with poor reputation after the Lund Commission, namely POT, receive support in this report from the EOS Committee for having got tidy systems and tidy practices in registration and archiving, and receive support for the conversion towards greater concentration that POT itself has set up in terms of prevention specifically for extreme political environments where politically motivated crime is also being pursued. It means, in my view, that the EOS Committee, which is a Parliamentary committee, contributes to the smooth operation of the services, and also to the fact that the control functions in such a way that most people can be confident that there is no crime and is going over the line in relation to the work done by these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e270	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e284	No one has asked for the floor. We have now come to case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3460]] The President will now propose that this morning's meeting be cancelled and that a new meeting be set at 9 p.m. 18.00 – for reasons the President will come back to. There should perhaps be some more who were present and were given this good explanation, so we'll call a little before we reach that decision. After it had been called for 5 minutes, said
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08.ana.ud1272e293	The President has called so many of the representatives to explain why she will now propose that the meeting be cancelled, and that a new meeting be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The reason is that the Administration of the United Kingdom and the Foreign Affairs Committee have long been aware that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had no opportunity to be in the United Kingdom until the beginning of the evening meeting, and we have planned to do so. So now Odelstinget has dealt with its issues faster than intended, and the Stortinget has also been very quick at the beginning of this meeting. Since it is desirable that the Minister for Foreign Affairs be present when we are dealing with matters from the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President has come to the conclusion that she will propose that we lift the meeting now and that a new meeting be held at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox No objection has been raised against it and it is deemed to have been adopted.
