ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e67	The representatives of Anne Brit Stråtvej, Ågot Valle, Einar Steensnæs and Tor Nymo, who have been authorized, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seat: For Hedmark County: Anne Christel Johnsgaard, Ida Marie Løvlien and Helge Bjørnsen For the Nordic region: Oddbjørn Hanssen For the Rogaland County: Toril Haaland Horpestad and Helga Rullestad For the counties of Sogn and Fjordane: Mathias Råheim For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bernt Hågensen
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e115	The President will propose the election of two presidents of the Stortinge meeting in the week in question – and see it as a deal. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e120	I suggest Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Wideth.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e125	Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Width are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not in line, and Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Wideth are jointly elected as the seat presidents for the meeting in the present week.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e133	The representative, Øystein Djupedal, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e136	On behalf of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose a temporary postponement of some major investments in defence equipment pending the long-term notification of the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e142	The representative Odd Einar Dørum will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e145	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal to allow the values of the port services to also be used outside the individual port districts, as well as to set up a selection for a broad review of the port law with a view to modernisation and improvement in order to develop efficient logistics, good land use for urban development purposes and an appropriate use of port values and revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e150	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e162	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 2877]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e178	It is not uncommon for me to be shocked by things that happen in Health-Norway, but the look-up in VG on February 8th. where it is reported that six sick people were packed into a maxitaxi to drive as a milking area from Oslo via Tønsberg, Porsgrund, Kragerø and Arendal to Vennesla by Kristiansand without sufficient access to food and drink and toilet service, is probably one of the most serious things I have experienced so far. There must be gross insensibility from those responsible for carrying out this transport from the Rikshospitalet and the Radium Hospital respectively. Without knowing the individual patient's health situation, I assume that the insertion, possibly control of cell poisoning treatment at the two mentioned regional hospitals, suggests that these are patients with quite serious disorders that cannot be accommodated together in a maxitaxi as a parcel item. According to the VG, the drive for the first patient who left on Husøy at Tønsberg, took two hours, for the patients to Skien and Porsgroen three and a half hours, for the patient to Kragerø six hours, and for the patient to Arendal eight hours. For the patient who was going to Friends at Kristiansand, but who went off in Porsground when he could not do any more, the trip would have taken between nine and ten hours, with the arrival at midnight. It is not possible for any of us to be able to put ourselves into what impression this type of transport was for the patients concerned, but as I see it, this kind of transport of sick people is both unworthy and totally unacceptable. I do not accept the explanation given by the director of the County Street Agency in Oslo that this special transport could have been better arranged, while he allows himself to inform us that the social security office in these coordinated unworthy transports has saved taxpayers 4 million. 1999 kr. We are talking here about the transport of some seriously ill people and not the parcel post, and then we get to pay what it costs to give patients a humane transport to and from hospitals. In a letter to the Department dated 6 March, the County Street Director of Oslo states: that it is the first time a transport on such a scale is organised at the driving office in Oslo and therefore the journey is not representative of normal practice. I'm sure I'll accept this, but when, later in the same letter to the department, the district councillor accepts only part of the responsibility for the first transport, I react very strongly. The full and complete responsibility for this transport must lie with the Fylkestrøgde bureau of the Director. Nor can I accept what the Minister of Social Affairs says in a letter to me dated March 28th. An excuse for the incident should be that there was another employee in the driving office who set up this transport than the one who usually has this working area. In my view, there is no excuse for the occurrence of this special medical transport. I do not expect the Minister of Social Affairs to have detailed knowledge of everything going on in her colossal, far-reaching field of affairs, but I expect, however, that when conditions like this are revealed, they will immediately intervene in relation to those responsible at the Riksstrøgdeverket's driving offices. Has the Minister for Social Affairs done this, or is the explanation given in the letter of 6 March from the Head of State of Oslo accepted? It is clear from the legislation on the home transport of patients that waiting during pharmacy visits, coffee visits or similar visits is not covered by social security. At my discretion, the legislation must then be amended. You cannot expect or accept four-eight hours of sick transport without having to visit a toilet or having to eat and drink along the way. This must be the responsibility and payment of the social security. This cannot reasonably be a burden on the patient or the patient’s relative. I have examined the situation in relation to the transport of sick people in several other states, and unfortunately I have received confirmation that the unworthy transport mentioned in the VG is not unique. Transports with several seriously ill people in the same car over long distances are not uncommon. I have been informed by a county agency that one has the objective of transporting 1.4 patients per year in the case of sick transport. the car, and has been granted it, and that allocation should of course be kept. Is it also in this context just heads and ears that count? How does this rhyme with the message of value, about the values of healthcare and the patient first, which lie in the Storting? In this debate, I will not put out the grievances of our county offices in that way, but I can show you examples where the budget and the'stars in the book' are obviously taken more into account than the actual needs of the patients. In one county, an elderly man with prostate disease, who required frequent use of the urethra, was required to drive with three other patients in a taxi to the Radium Hospital despite the fact that during transportation to Oslo, this patient was dependent on using the urethra three to four times along the way – and that for open stage. I also have examples that taxi drivers – affordable enough – have refused to carry out this type of transport of pure compassion with patients. I have evidence that a driving agency in a state has intervened and tried to change the hourly arrangements of specialists to other days and other times, and also took the initiative that patients should change the specialist, so that it would better facilitate a combined transport to different districts in this county. It is with respect to report without hearing the authority of a driving office to interfere in the free choice of doctor, specialist and hospital for patients. This must ensure that the Minister of Social Affairs is stopped immediately. I am aware that several institutions have complained to county doctors about the practices of various driving agencies in relation to patient transports in connection with the abuse of the obligation of professional secrecy. These collection heats also lead to some long waiting time in a hospital, in addition to the transport, by waiting for a patient in a hospital who may not be ready for transport when the car arrives. I also want to pay a visit to the hospitals in this context. I think they should step up considerably when it comes to the issue of commuting remittances, and in that context consider the patient better in relation to driving with other patients. A large number of ambulance drivers drive daily to the Oslo region with patients and drive by empty car back to the exit point. These cars can't take patients who are sitting there, you don't have a reason for that. The two different modes of transport are based on two different payment funds, namely the county of the county of Ambulance and the Rikstrygdeverket in the ordinary sick transport of sitting patients. I am not opposed to the fact that a person carries out public transports of patients to and from hospitals over relatively short distances. It provides a wise saving of scarce health resources. But there has to be a better sorting of patients who are able to run with others than is the case today. Here, as mentioned earlier, hospitals have a primary task which they should follow up more closely than is the case today. In my opinion, driving agencies must also have a separate responsibility in relation to the transport they require, and employees at driving offices must have a minimum of training in how to treat people – and not least sick people. The same applies to the choice of driver used by the driving agencies. It seems obvious to me that the driver who carried out the transport to Friends did not have the quality to expect when transporting sick people. Finally, I would like to say that I have the confidence in the Minister for Social Affairs that she is addressing this problem and is ensuring that we have a better and more valuable transport in the future – that there is a maximum limit of three patients in one car and that the deadline is set at a maximum of three hours, but then with a stay en route for toilet visits and consumption of food or drink.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e212	Unlike ambulance transport, no public authority currently has a statutory, overall responsibility for the planning, establishment and operation of the sick transport service. Individual patients are entitled to social benefits under the Law of Population, which covers the necessary travel expenses for medical examination or treatment, in hospitals or outpatient clinics. The aim of this popular-security social benefit is to ensure that patients have equal opportunity to receive medical treatment regardless of where they live in the country. The social security system also has a responsibility for ensuring that it is done in a reasonable way for society. In 1999, public health expenditure amounted to 1 132 million. SEK, of which 672 million. kr for carriage by taxi. When a person calculates the social security benefit from popular security, the social security office shall base the cost of the cheapest way of travel by means of regular transport on the nearest place where the patient may receive the necessary examination or treatment. As a general rule, even when repatriation takes place, it covers only expenditure on means of regular transport. If the patient has to use more expensive means of transport because of his health status, e.g. dross, the public interest may also cover the cost of such transport. Normally a doctor's attestation that taxis are necessary is then required. In order to limit the cost of transport by taxi, the social security system has established driving offices in almost all counties. Driving agencies have as their primary task the coordination of transport operations. This applies primarily to transportation to and from hospitals. The journeys to and from the hospital must be ordered through the driving office. The driving office shall ensure that several patients travel with the same taxi where possible. However, the number of passengers must not exceed the acceptable level of service. I would like to stress that the transport mentioned in the World Gang on February 8th this year is not representative of the patient journeys with taxis handled by the driving office in Oslo. It is not common practice at the driving office for six patients with different residences to share the same taxi when transporting over long distances. It shouldn't be like that either. The driving office in Oslo was established on 1 September 1998 and the office coordinated in 1999 approx. 7 000 transport operations. The driving agency received very few written complaints about its business. According to the World Gang, the Information Manager of the Radium Hospital reports that the hospital has not received any complaints from patients about the coordination of medical transport during the half-year of the driving office. With regard to the concrete journey that the World Gang writes about, the Rikstrygdeverket, on behalf of the Social Security Agency, has lamented the way this concrete transport was organized. The driving office in Oslo later realized that transport should have been organised as two trips – one with the patients of Tønsberg, Porsgrund and Skien, a total of three patients, and one with the patients of Kragerø, Arendal and Vennesla, also three patients. The information from the driving office to the driver should also have been better in advance of such a long trip. In addition, a doll should have been used to avoid major diversions to stop the patients. This has been learned by the driving office. However, the driver’s office has no record of how the driver carried out the transport itself. It is the driver who is responsible for the proper operation of the transport operation within the framework of the legislation on taxi transport. Furthermore, there shall be an acceptable level of service for the passages. On longer trips, of course, the driver must consider the need for intermediate stops. This applies both to passengers and to the driver himself, in order to have the necessary breaks on the journey. If the motor vehicle office gets a complaint from the driver, this will be followed up with the taxi owner. In this case, the driver came uninvited to explain the transport. The driver’s version of what happened on the trip was different from what some of the passengers have said to the World Times. However, the social security system does not have the basis for determining who provides the most accurate presentation of the case. Following this special case, the procedures at the driving office have been thoroughly reviewed. The current practice has now been clarified. Among other things, it has been clarified that the transport of six patients with the same car should not occur when it comes to long journeys with a lot of traffic. Stortingsretten Alvheim informed in the interview that he had been in contact with other taxi drivers who informed that these were quite common experiences for patients who were sent home by taxi. The driving office in Oslo believes that this is not the case. The claims made by taxi drivers are not fully documented, and the County Ironing Office in Oslo states that the case under consideration in the World Times is a one-off case. In the vast majority of cases, a doctor is requesting medical transportation by taxi for the patient. It is the responsibility of the doctor for the requisition to have the information necessary for the driving agency and the carrier to take account of the patient’s needs in ordering and carrying out the transport. When the patient goes home from the hospital, it is up to the hospital to provide all relevant information to the driving office. The doctor applying for a taxi must also assess whether the patient’s health status is such that taxis are the right means of transport, or whether another means of transport, such as driving, is necessary. ambulance. The driving office has as its task to accept orders for transport and to communicate driving orders to carriers. If possible, several patients shall be transported by the same taxi. The community then saves a lot of money on travel expenses. There is a starting point for the driving office that several patients can travel together unless there is something else from the proposal. The driver’s office must assess whether it is possible to combine the journey time and the patient’s state of health. The driver’s office must then balance the objective of a reasonable transport service and the consideration of a proper transport service for the patient. In the case of the medical assessment of the doctor, neither the driving bureau can nor shall oversee it. There may be crazy or bad judgements in the various actors who are either the doctor, the driving office or the taxi driver. Every year, 3-4 million patients in this country are transported to a doctor or hospital or other health care professional for whom the public health allowance is refunded. Of course, there may also be other unforeseen circumstances that may be unwarranted with regard to the patient’s transport. For example, the doctor may be mistaken as regards the patient’s health status or may provide incomplete information about the patient. The driving office may also, for its part, go too far from the desire for maximum coordination. Furthermore, the driver of the taxi can take too little account of the patient’s needs along the way. Such unfortunate circumstances or misassessments are to be regretted. However, such misassessments can hardly be entirely avoided as long as there are so many transports here in the country to a doctor or hospital or to other health professionals and at the same time so many people inside the picture. It may also occur that the patient gets sick during transport without any connection with the way in which the transport is carried out. Today, patients are printed out more quickly from hospitals than before. In addition, inpatient treatment is more widely used instead of hospitalisation, and home transport from treatment can itself be a significant impression for the patient. All of this suggests that feedback is desirable and important that can help to correct weaknesses and provide better service. Both the Ministry and the Social Security Department are concerned that this is happening and that it is being facilitated. I can otherwise inform you that the Swedish National Agency has been commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to carry out an overall review of the sick transport area. The size was briefed on this in connection with the 1999 state budget. A majority of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment asked in the budget position at the time that this work should also include an assessment of the impact of linking the financial responsibility for transport to the level treating the patient. The mandate of the project was divided into two parts. Firstly, the Rikstrygdeverket has assessed actions within the current system of financing of the budget of the population. This part of the review was carried out on 30 July 1999. A number of proposals were presented for measures relating to coordination, resource use, requisition and regulatory changes. Some measures have been implemented in the context of the State budget for 2000, such as: the establishment of several public driving offices, or the administrative follow-up of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Agency for Public Driving. In the autumn of 1999, the Rikstrøgdeverket further investigated the consequences of a transfer of responsibilities for sick transport and was showered by health professionals from the population to the municipal sector. The investigation was carried out by the Ministry of Social and Health on 11 February 2000. In the report, the Riksstrøgdeverket provides an overview of the current system and a review of the previous consideration of the question of transfer of responsibility. Furthermore, there is an assessment of strong and weak aspects of today’s organisation in relation to county/municipal organisation. The report also outlines different models of a transfer of responsibility to the local government sector and explains the impact. The report does not clearly recommend that responsibility for health transport services should be transferred. The report is now at consultation in municipalities and county municipalities. The consultation period is set at June. The government will then present the matter to Stortinget. Both the Fylkestrøgdekontoret in Oslo and the Rikstrøgdeverket have underlined that the current transport is not representative of the patient journeys by taxi organised by the driving office in Oslo. Following this event, the procedures at the driving office have been thoroughly reviewed. It has been clarified what should be the current practice, including: the transport of six patients with the same car shall not occur in the case of long journeys with a lot of traffic. Both the Ministry and the Social Security Service are concerned with learning from and following up such feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e261	I thank the Minister for the answer. In general, I perceive the answer so that the social minister also finds the special transport that was the starting point here, critical, but I have also registered that the social minister, up to several times in his post, makes it clear that this was not the usual – this was a special case. I am not so sure of it based on the information I have received. The Minister of Social Affairs also says that public health has a responsibility to transport sick people in a reasonable way. I would have liked the Minister of Social Affairs to have added in a reasonable manner. The Minister of Social Affairs did something later in his speech. Otherwise, I would like to ask a specific question in connection with the fact that the procedures at the Oslo Driving Office have now been reviewed and, if necessary, done something about it. Has there been any progress in the review of routines in general across the country? That's the one question. Another question I asked in my article, but to which I did not receive an answer, was this: Is it reasonable and correct that patients should be charged the cost of rest breaks during transport when the transport takes over the peak level of time I mentioned, namely two to three hours? There should be a rest, dining and toilet break within these three hours. I would also like to have answered whether the costs of this should also be borne by those responsible for the transport, not by the patient himself. Finally, it is okay to regret things that have happened. It's all right, but that's not enough for me. Time and again we hear that we are sorry from the responsible team when unworthy conditions are discovered in both health and care. But such things must have a reaction, something must be done in relation to the people who are responsible and make such decisions as the one we saw in this particular transport. Has the Social Minister, for example, given Oslo Social Security Offices and the Social Security Director a real scratch for this special event, or is it accepted that this was a one-off event – it has not happened before, and it is not going to happen afterwards? That's not enough. It has to be over that you can get away from all the mistakes that happen in health and care just you regret. It must have consequences for those who carry out such unworthy transports as the one we have witnessed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e280	I would like to stress that public health is the responsibility of reasonable and sound transport for sick people. Then the representative asked Alvheim if the general routines throughout the country had been reviewed. It is not based on this event; we expect the transport to be carried out in a reasonable and sound manner, but there is always work at the driving offices to improve the service they provide. The second question was whether it is reasonable for patients to be charged the cost of breaks. I think it is completely unreasonable that the breaks should cost something in addition to what patients/persons might have to do specifically during those breaks. That breaks on longer trips are part of the drive, sounds very logical to me. So to what kind of reactions or consequences the Social Minister should have used towards those responsible for such regrettable events. Usually, it is felt as a pretty strong scrape from the Council of State when a person calls for some cases. Something besides that is not done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e291	I believe it is very important that users give feedback about transport that they do not feel satisfactory. This is absolutely necessary to correct the weaknesses. I refer to the fact that the Minister of Social Affairs explained that this specific case of the VG on which the representative Alvheim relies his interpellation, has been lamented by the Swedish Social Security Agency on behalf of the Social Security Office in Oslo. The driving agency should have organised this transport for two trips. Several other unfortunate details in the way this trip has been organized, then the driving office has also taken lessons from it. The Social Security Office in Oslo believes this case is a one-off case. However, transport planning involves interaction between several parties. Firstly, it is the doctor who is to claim means of transport based on the patient’s health status. Secondly, it is the driving agency that communicates the missions and must coordinate the transport operations. Thirdly, the person responsible for transport must provide the necessary information to enable transport to be carried out in accordance with the needs of the patient. In my opinion, the doctor’s information on the patient’s state of health is essential for the proper implementation of transport. However, it is strange to use wording in VG as an individual truth witness without providing evidence of the claims, as the Minister of Social Affairs explained. In this case, there are only indications from the taxi driver that this happens often. Out of 7 000 coordinated transport, the driving agency in Oslo has received very few written complaints about its activities since its establishment in September 1998. In my view, it is also completely unnecessary for the representative of the Progress Party, the head of the Social Committee in the UK, to spend time on an interpellation with the Social Minister when the sick transport system is mentioned in the budget for 2000 and the responsibility for sick transport is still under assessment in the Department and in the National Agency for Social Security. At the same time, I see in the alternative draft budget that the Progress Party does not want to increase the cap. 600 item 1 with three posts in the department, but believes that the money should be used for direct patient treatment and care instead. I can agree with that, but it's important, in my opinion, to ensure that the administration takes time to improve the conditions for users rather than on more work because of interpellations with a background in the look-up in the VG.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e302	The home transport of patients after treatment has a medical side and an economic side that is closely related. An increasing number of inpatients and outpatients, as well as an ongoing overcoating, especially in medical departments, leads to an increasing pressure on patients to be outsourced. Simultaneous saving and efficiency requirements include: led to coordination of patient transport for the best use of resources. In principle, it is clearly positive that one here exploits savings opportunities through the sensible use of home transport. Time pressure and economic pressure, however, must not lead to a home transport offer that affects the patient’s health. The conditions described by the interpellant are clearly unacceptable. The Christian People's Party cannot accept home transport that goes on health and human dignity loose. I have no reason to judge the prevalence of such unacceptable return transport, but the interpellant has pointed out that this is hardly a single case, although it seems particularly serious. Whether or not that was – one time is too much, and such relationships must not repeat themselves. Medical assessments can be complex and demanding. Assessment for the home transport of patients requires some knowledge of the patient’s health and of the treatment the patient has undergone as well as a relatively elementary knowledge of Norwegian geography. This is a situation that we must expect those responsible for the home transport of patients to be in charge, both doctors, driving agencies and drivers. As mentioned above, we do not know how common such unacceptable home transport is. However, I think there is every reason to take this seriously, examine the circumstances and take the necessary steps to ensure patients throughout the country a home transport that is sound and decent. I have noticed that the Council of State has gone through practice at the driving office in Oslo, and I assume that the coordination of the home transport of patients after hospitalisation or outpatient treatment will be generally assessed together with the need for any further guidance in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e313	The representative, Karin Lian, said that this interpellation should be unnecessary because the problem of sick transport is mentioned in the budget. Yes, if we all in this room were not to include things mentioned in the budget, there were not many meetings either at large or at large, because the budget is mostly mentioned. Unfortunately, that does not mean that the case field has been resolved for that reason. I agree with the latter speaker who said that there is not so much to add, everyone agrees that what is behind this interpellation from the representative Alvheim – in that sense the interpellation should never have been held – should not occur. But it does, and Alvheim has given an example of that. There can be no doubt that this is an example that violates all foreseeable requirements, both health requirements, medical requirements and human requirements. This shouldn't happen, however, we all know that sometimes it happens. So maybe you can discuss how representative it is. I think Alvheim might be right that it happens more often than we like to admit. But more important than that is the fact that what the Minister for Social Affairs has at least begun to do, namely to tighten up the rules and guidelines not only for the driving office here in the city, but also for Are Næss, throughout the country. For this is probably not an isolated case that has only occurred here in the central eastern region. With the geography we have, there are probably sad examples in other places in the country that we would rather not have experienced. I hope, therefore, that the Minister of Social Affairs is now serious about tightening up the procedures in the whole country, both in terms of the number of patients who can be involved in such transport and the length of travel to which they will be exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e320	Apart from one speaker, I have the impression that this interpellation was most in place. The Minister for Social Affairs has largely agreed that this type of transport should not occur, and has also taken steps to improve the situation. The representatives of both the Right and the Christian People's Party have expressed the same thing. Now and then it's like this in the house that you feel like you have to take part in an interpellant debate about a matter you have in the committee. But I would say to the representative Karin Lian that it would have been an advantage if the post she was making had not been kept, because it was all on the side of what we are discussing here. To start talking about that there should be too few posts in the department to rectify these conditions is, of course, all on the side of any reasoning. In the end, I want to ask a question to the Social Minister, who will have the floor after me: Is that what I have been told from a driving office in one of our counties, that one has the objective according to its budget framework of transporting 1.4 patients per average. car? If that's the starting point, and if this is followed up by nitite bureaucrats who want the star in the book, I'm scared!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e329	It is in this case that I think is typical of everything that has to do with health and social services, namely that there are several people's assessment inside the picture. So in the case of transport, there is the doctor's assessment, the agency's assessment and the carrier's assessment, and all three assessments are to be drawn in the same direction and to the patient's best. As the representative Alvheim and others know, I have made such assessments myself, and I believe that sometimes there are unfortunate assessments based on the lack of sufficient knowledge of each other. The doctor may have too little knowledge of the geography, and the driving office has too little knowledge of the patient's condition, the carrier as well. Therefore, I believe that the most important thing we can do to ensure that these transports are good is to have a continuous quality assessment at the individual driving office, so that all deviations from the desired quality are reported back and have consequences. With regard to Mr Alvheim's specific question about an average of 1.4 per. transport, I'm not familiar with that number. On the other hand, I am aware that the driving offices have the task of ensuring that the transport is as efficient as possible, but also proper for the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e338	So the debate is on case No. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e352	This interpellation was originally addressed to the Council of State Giske, who is responsible for the school, but it was transferred to the Minister of Health. Had I initially wanted a debate with this Council of States, I would have formulated my question differently, for example.: Does the regular use of Ritalin in children imply that they are subjected to psychological addictive addiction? Can this medication make them more disposed of to continue to maintain their condition, but then with other and illegal forms of drugs? The Progress Party has worked hard in previous years to introduce Ritalin as a means of some diagnosis, but in controlled and legitimate forms. Our view from then on hasn't changed. I will briefly quote Professor Joar Tranøy at the University of Eastfold, who claims: ‘The question is not whether Ritalin helps, but whether it is necessary, because the use of Ritalin may mean that you choose to destroy the student’s brain in order to have a calm child.’ As I see it, it may seem that there is a need for calm and control by schools and adults that governs the use of this drug. When the latest proposals for changes to the Training Act say that other measures should be tried before moving a student, it can be seen as an attempt to treat children and young people decently. I cannot see in any way that children who are increasingly exposed to Ritalin are being protected by the need for other measures in advance. The propensity for increasing use of tranquilizers to pupils with behavioural problems may reflect the absence of both the ability and the willingness to make necessary changes in the state school. According to the National Unit of Competence for AD/HD, one to two pst. of the population affected by the ‘disease’, while three to four more. suffers from a minor variant. This is a very large number of children to be medicated for others to have peace. In the press it was clarified by the State Secretary of the KUF that moving children against their will would only apply approx. 10 children per day years. This figure seems to mean an additional consumption of chemical lobotomy, as a special pedagogue expressed it to me. Are there really no alternative pedagogical measures that the welfare community can offer or expand for some of these children? In a technical discussion, I was made aware that few or no one had tried to create good environments of a tolerant and borderline nature around these students. Can an offer to this type of student on e.g. The solo school in Oslo is acceptable both for the further development of the student and to avoid a dispersal effect in terms of anxiety and trouble? Medicalisation of behavioural problems in schools has developed into a culture based on convenience. I show you, among other things: for the evaluation of special education in the Municipality of Oslo, ‘Ideals and realities’ at Nordahl and Overland, which demonstrates how teachers seem to have developed a cooperation on the diagnosis of the troubled student with ADHD, TS and MBD rather than examining the social context in which the unrest arises — in other words, the proportion of adults interacting. Figures from the Norwegian Medical Pot show that the use of Ritalin in the period 1986-1996 has quadrupled in Norway, with at least 1 300 users. According to the ADHD Centre of Competence, in 1998 there were 1,500 schoolchildren using Ritalin, and there is still a rapid increase in the number of users. This probably corresponds to numbers from, among others. USA, but it's more than twice as many as in Sweden. It is reported from the Swedish Medicines Agency in Uppsala that they had 700 users of Ritalin during the same period. For clear diagnosis, medication can be the only dangerous route for the child and the class, but it seems that clear diagnosis is no longer necessary. In many places in Norway, it is actually operated on the basis of a method such as:: Try this for three weeks. Observe the child carefully. If that's what's going to happen, let's keep going. This can be documented, Councillor. This form of diagnosis cannot be ethically and clinically sound. As it stands out for me, there is one of two situational images. Norway has a significantly higher proportion than Sweden in the case of Ritalin use. This is either 1) a medical phenomenon, or 2) we're on our way into a culture of unculture with uncritical use of dampening medication, which is in neighborhoods with child abuse. If the school can relax the picture presented in the Oslo school evaluation, everything's fine. If there is a tendency to diagnose sensitive children with conditions without a verifiable basis, but more based on subjective assessments of schoolwork and the PP service, etc., this practice should be reviewed as soon as possible. This brings me to research abroad and critical evaluation of the research carried out by psychiatrist Peter R. Breggin at the Center for Studies in Psychiatry and Psychology in Maryland, USA. Dr. Breggin reviewed the large MTA analysis to shed light on this delicate topic. Major deficiencies and unhealthy research conditions related to the MTA analysis were identified. The children's own perception, which was illuminated in the basic material, was not mentioned. This is, to put it mildly, strange. An equally clear conclusion is drawn from Norwegian professionals and researchers, who warn against and are concerned about the ever-increasing use of sedative and sedative drugs rather than the regulated organised training intended to provide social skills as well as concrete knowledge. Organised education shall not be a real possibility of a future disability due to incurable brain damage or a drug problem. The use of this drug and similar drugs, such as: Haldol, seems to be more a solution than a willingness to change the school environment and system. It's probably easier to change students than a falling school system. America's first lady, Hillary Clinton, has even gone public against the uncritical medication in the United States and demanded that the school develop methods to give these children an offer based on their own assumptions. The criticisms, including: Fred Baugman and Peter Breggin claim that the presence of ADHD is proportional to the presence and influence of behavioural diagnostics, testers and therapists in schools. In U.S. schools today, about 1,000 million are used. dollars a year on psychologists who work full time diagnosing students. In 1996, 15 000 million were used in the United States. dollar, that's about. 100 000 million. kr for diagnosis, treatment and studies of ADHD problems. Trends in similar economic benefits with ADHD diagnosis of pupils can be recorded in the Norwegian school system. The likelihood that a school will receive grants for exceptional support measures is higher with ADHD diagnosis and Ritalin medication. Examples are available in applications for training directors from the PP service. The conclusion of an application: School and PPT suggest that NN receive six support hours per year. week. Six support hours x 35 weeks x 500 kroner = 105000 kroner. The application was accepted. Similar healthy scepticism exists in almost all other countries, including the cradle of diagnosis and medication, the United States. I am fully aware that what I am pointing out here, with the change in teacher education, continuing training of existing teachers, the use of schools such as Sollerudstranda etc., is not free – neither is Ritalin – but it may seem better for each student in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e400	First, I would like to say that in Norway there are strict restrictions related to the prescription, placing on the market and use of Ritalin. These restrictions reflect the importance of the proper use of this type of preparation. Ritalin must be prescribed by a doctor. The doctor may not prescribe until permission from the county doctor has been obtained. General practitioners need specific authorisation for each patient to whom they wish to prescribe, while pediatric, neurology and pediatric specialists may prescribe to several patients on the basis of a general authorisation. Ritalin is prescribed to a patient group that primarily includes children and adolescents where the plague is characterized by the name of the disease – Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder – abbreviated ADHD. Ritaline has a positive treatment effect for many patients with this diagnosis, provided good control and broad follow-up. It is therefore important that you initially have a proper diagnosis before starting treatment with Ritalin. Such treatment may limit the scope of social problems and learning problems. The disease is characterised by hyperactivity, poor concentration and lack of attention. The condition mainly affects children, but for some, the disease persists beyond the age of children. Concentration difficulties may also have causes other than ADHD. There is broad consensus in the medical and special educational environment in Norway that stimulants can only be used on specific indications. For children, these conditions are diagnosed as hyperactivity/ADHD. According to the A-Receptive Register of the State of Health, approx. 2 per million of Norwegian children prescribed this type of medication, or approx. 2000 persons. I have not found any indications that this number is improperly high. The regulation of the opportunity to prescribe Ritalin helps to ensure that proper diagnosis is made before the medication is prescribed. The increase in the consumption of Ritalin must be seen in the context of better diagnosis. Children with ADHD are not necessarily more aggressive than others, but struggle in their daily situation with a lack of ability to concentrate. This will easily lead to unrest, rejection and the possibility for the development of aggressive behaviour. There is no indication that the use of Ritalin on the correct indication weakens the user’s ability to exploit its capacity, or the so-called cognitive capacity. On the contrary, cognitive capacity is increasing because these children are gaining their capacity for attention and endurance. In this way they can make better use of education and guidance in a school situation. There are, moreover, no indications to claim that children’s aggression patterns will change in a negative direction at the end of treatment with Ritaline. When given adequate treatment for hyperactivity, the child will be better able to release his resources and not develop aggressive behaviour. Nor can I see that the risk of dependence should be great for these patients. According to the State Medicines Control Department and the State Health Authority, there is no evidence that Ritalin is addictive when used on medical indications and in accordance with the guidelines for professionally sound treatment, control and follow-up. Primary health care is the responsibility of each municipality. If school students need medical help, it is the responsibility of each municipality to ensure that students receive the help they need. It is clear that health authorities cannot oblige teachers to supervise and distribute medicines during school hours. If teachers assist students by ensuring that the medicines are taken properly at the right time, I assume that this is done in close cooperation with their parents/constituters and/or the treating physician. In this respect, I would like to mention that the State Health Authority is currently assessing the need for guidelines for the handling of medicinal products in schools and kindergartens. Responsibilities will be clarified and practical solutions discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e428	I will first be allowed to thank the Council of State for the answer he has given, which would have been a perfectly correct answer to my reworded question if it had been promoted to him. The disease we're talking about has a diagnosis that's not related to structural changes in the brain, nor chemical changes. It goes more on a diffuse concept of vision. So it could be very difficult to say something more about this. However, I have given a statement to a newspaper by chief psychologist Kirsten Rasmussen. She says, ‘Those who have used Ritalin at an early age are less likely to develop drug abuse. There is also little evidence that Ritalin is addictive." Furthermore, the same psychologist claims – and this may be worth noting: ‘Children who are medicated avoid a criminal track.’ Then I will briefly get quotes from a case I've been given, where a student says: ‘It has become calmer yes. Maybe most people in the class are happy about it, but not me. Tore's not exactly the same. Missing his splinter and brittle invading. Now it's nothing. Worse is it in your spare time. He's no longer a part of it." Tore himself won't say that much, but he says, «I feel that I can no longer control. The body will take over. I need the pills to know my body. I can no longer be aware of everything. Don't know what others are thinking about me now. It could be the same. There's something wrong with me." So this is a Ritalin-using student who in the past has not been either aggressive or dangerous or criminal, but he is baptized so that his soul is inserted into a dark chamber. We don't need it, but the presence of the body we need. And this is what it's all about. And then the Council of State correctly refers to the school health service. Unfortunately, he cannot do anything else. But the Local Health Act does not really say what kind of school health services each municipality should have. There is, in fact, only one hour allocated to municipal budgets, and that cannot be checked.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e454	Firstly, I agree with what is being pointed out about the difficulties of diagnosis in such a field, and that is all reason to reinforce the vigilance that I explained is already present when it comes to prescribing this type of medication. Moreover, I am pleased that there is also a slight distinction between the purely school policy aspects of this case and those relating to the school authorities’ involvement in controlling these types of drugs. I just want to say that I want to take with me the comments that come to it, and do what I have the opportunity to do, to make sure that we have a sense of using it in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e459	For the prescription of the drug Ritalin to children and young people with e.g. The diagnosis of ADHD, as I know and have experienced, is always done according to very strict criteria, as the Minister of Health also made known in his article. I have been familiar with and involved as a school principal for many years in cases where specialists have, after a very lengthy and careful assessment, recommended and published this drug. I have not experienced anything that suggests that such a prescription has been made where it could have been avoided, and it is not that it is done for convenience reasons at all. It makes no sense to say that such medication is done without criticism, as the interpellant asserted. Children who do not receive help can end up in a very bad circle, where concentration failure is easily the basis of anxiety and frustration, and thus the development of behaviour that is a very poor basis for learning and normal social interaction with friends and schoolmates alike. It is a prerequisite for children receiving medical treatment to have good follow-up. The impact of drug use makes it possible to start a process of learning good social skills and makes it easier for children to make use of education. In this way I have learned that these children are given a new chance to, among other things. social learning, and it's social learning that needs to be learned over and over again. I can't see or have experienced any problem that teachers, in agreement with parents and doctors, can help the child take medicine when it's necessary to do this in school. Most of the time, it can be done outside school. As non-professionals, when it comes to the question of addiction, we need to rely fully on the assessments made by a medically competent body that do not pose a risk of dependence when properly used. The experience is that such drug use seems clear to give a much better life to those children and young people who are offered it than without such help.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e472	It is an important matter for my fellow party representative Ursula Evje to address in this interview. The debate on Ritalin is relatively limited in Norway so far, but in the United States, where the product has been used for a long time and to a large extent, the debate is very strong, as the representative of Evje also pointed out. In the case of Norway, I know that the State Health Authority sent out a press release on 28 March this year. It says that caution is advised when using Ritalin in the treatment of hyperactive adults. It also says that a large proportion, 65 pst, of those who are attempting such treatment choose to discontinue treatment. We're dealing with a preparation where adults who can decide for themselves what they put in pills choose not to use the product, for which State Health Care advises caution. We give this in an ever-increasing proportion to Norwegian schooling and to Norwegian schoolchildren – suspicious, as I see it. It's a fact that people who put drugs in them, or if we want to call it dope, from they're small, get a learned helplessness. It's a fact that professionals have different opinions about Ritalin. It is a fact that Ritalin has serious side effects. It is a fact that Ritalin is a drug in the family of amphetamines, which creates addiction, said in good Norwegian: creating drug addicts. It is a fact that Ritalin use, at least in the United States, has made Ritalin available to young people and children who are not hyperactive and who use it as a party or party drug. There is a trend that is also cause for fear in Norway. Studies from the University of California Berkeley show that the use of Ritalin increases the chance of becoming a drug addict to use adult cocaine — to three times more than normal chances of doing so. It's also a fact that ADHD is a debated diagnosis where it's hard to see a clear distinction between children and young people who usually have ants in the back and who may only have had parents who have had some difficulty setting limits, and those who have ADHD. The use of Ritalin in the United States has been strongly increasing. In 1996, 1.5 million children passed. Today's correct numbers are hard to get, but they're between 2.4 and 8 million. I'm sure Ritalin can help someone, but we have to try to avoid excessive use and avoid the growth that you've had in the United States. I also understand in the last article of the Council of State that this is his concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e485	The use of drugs such as Ritalin is a medical paradox. These are medicines which are initially stimulants and addictive, but which have proved effective in treating disease conditions with completely opposite symptoms, such as hyperactivity and narcolepsy, which the interpellantan has not mentioned in this context. The professional discussion in this area is important, especially because professionals have different opinions, and it is also necessary to be aware of the risk of over-exploitation. The strict legislation in this country for the prescription of these drugs provides a high level of certainty in this respect, which has also been pointed out by the Council of State. In addition, there is now a report to the State Health Inspectorate of the expert teams in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim, which was established to assess diagnostic investigations and treatment with Ritalin for adults. These conclude that Ritalin should continue to be offered to adults under the precautionary measures laid down, and the report also calls on the Health Authority to consider whether people over 18 years of age with severe mental retardation may be treated with stimulants if hyperactivity syndrome exists. So it's not like the expertise just focuses on the negative and the problematic of these drugs. However, I believe that discussion at this stage should be beneficial in the professional forums, with close contact between medical and pedagogical expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e494	When I first read this interpellation text, I thought that this must be a very marginal case in school. In further examination of the matter, I have been confirmed that this is the case. But when that is said, I would like to stress that it is important that the search for drug use is made in a pedagogical context. On the part of the Centre Party, we are particularly concerned that the school has adequate pedagogical and other resources, so that drugs only have to be used in the most necessary cases, based on thorough professional advice. As I said, the use of Ritalin is not high in today's school. The interpellant mentioned 1,500 students. If we think about it as 60,000 in a year's coal, that's 600,000 students going to Norwegian school, fortunately 1,500 is a low number. Several teachers that I have contacted actually didn't know anything about this at all. At the request of the State Department of Education in my own country, the answer was the same: Ritalin is not much used, but it is important to be on guard; the PP office people were well acquainted with the use of this drug, which seems to be dampening to debilitating behaviour. Not surprisingly, there is a professional disagreement about the use and importance of this drug for the learning situation. In general, psychologists may be somewhat more critical of this than, for example: The psychiatrists, as I understand it. It would be a very big failure statement to resort to drugs to solve the resource crisis in school. I do not think that will be the case in Norway either. One of the main measures proposed by the central government was an increase in the adult density of the classes, especially in the youth sector, as well as an opportunity for several types of professionals to help create the best possible environment in the learning situation. Quite rightly, these measures are only at the experimental stage yet, but they have gone in the right direction. As far as the question of the effect of Ritalin on learning ability is concerned, it's as far as I know, little empirical material to stick to. Ritaline acts as mentioned attenuating to degenerative behaviour. So the concentration is getting better, and you have to count on a better chance of learning. This will apply to both the student concerned and the entire class. On the other hand, it is said that long-term use of the drug Ritaline may have side effects such as: insomnia and loss of appetite. Staying in medication for periods should therefore be carefully considered, says some professionals. I stress that this can be seen quickly. This suggests that more research in this area should be stimulated. Otherwise, we have specialist centres of expertise where this field was to be central. Actually, my professional sources are few, but they have a lot of experience from school work, pedagogical-psychological service, clinical psychology, family therapy, etc. If I may, President, I would like to add that I believe that it is absolutely not relevant for teachers to be responsible for medication, because it is the responsibility of doctors. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e513	Interpellation is addressed to the Minister of Health, and it is, of course, adequate in so far as it concerns a strictly medical-professional issue, the effects of a particular drug and the criteria for printing such a drug. However, a substantial part of the inter-pellant’s reasoning was such that it would have been more appropriate to address it to the Minister of Education. What was problematic to me about the interpellant's reasoning was that she presented it as if the problems you're trying to solve in this way are either a medical phenomenon or a pedagogical school phenomenon. And that's probably where the problem lies that this is either – or is a fictitious either – or. If this drug is technically justified in this use, it is a major problem that is both – and; that is, the problem has a medical side that appears to be at least available for medical treatment that makes the situation better for the patient, and at the same time it is obvious that the problem also has a social and educational side. So it's not a either-or-problem, but it's definitely a both-and-and-a problem. Regarding the medical professional side, I find the health minister's response satisfactory and comprehensive. We have strict rules at this point, and there is no one other than the doctor who can sit with the professional responsibility to prescribe the use of the drug. I also assume that it is the responsibility of the doctor and the health authorities to provide for follow-up in the individual cases, so that you do not continue to receive treatment over time without it being continuously assessed medically. On this point, the position should be critical. The fact that there is professional disagreement is also not remarkable. Of course it is in this type of treatment. And the only way to pass it on is, of course, to focus more on research and evidence on the use of the instrument. With regard to the pedagogical problems, I would like to give my full support to the interpellant. Of course, it is not acceptable to try to solve these problems, the problems of the environment in dealing with the behaviour of a child, by giving drugs to the patient. Medicinal products shall be evaluated solely according to the effects on the patient and in this context the problems of the environment are irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e525	Is it possible to reduce the use of Ritalin? My personal opinion and experience is that it is actually possible. A common sign for these children is that they're out of control. Many of them lack boundaries and often take control of teachers and fellow students. The Norwegian school does not have enough up-to-date teachers in this field. Can one expect that there will be part of the curriculum at the teacher's school? During the waiting period, something can be done. Better cooperation with parents/carers, clearer notification to the student of the tasks to be done and clear messages. These children need messages and messages at once. They won't be able to receive too many, then it'll get stuck. It's important that they get commendation when they can do the problems, and it's also a prerequisite that they know the consequences if they don't do the problems. By the fact that there are clear adults who stand on their positions, these children will learn – like everyone else. This is something we have to take seriously. I think close cooperation between school, home and possibly social action can be what's right. Unfortunately, I think the school often tries to get the students examined and, if necessary, medicated – a little too early. Other measures should be put in place before a step is taken. I am pleased that the Progress Party is putting this on the agenda, and I hope you can have a broad debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e536	I will briefly grasp a few statements that have come from my fellow debaters. The representative Marit Tingelstad claimed that this was a marginal problem because it was only up to 2,000 children. Yes, there are not many children, but what is worrying is that it is more than twice — almost three times — as many as in Sweden. And it has to say something in itself that we're on the wrong road. The representative's salary gives me a either-or-motiv. There the representative takes the pay very seriously wrong, but that's a good way to argue to see if you can win a debate. There is nothing either – or in this context for these children, but the main thing is that all adults act as thinking adults and take on the responsibilities they have and do not try to avoid it with more or less lucrative methods. Let me give you an example. In a small municipality in Finnmark, there is a branch school with 15 students. A student of seven years had a brief meeting with the PP service. This resulted in a similar brief meeting with the overall body 35 miles away. This student came back to his school with Ritalin, no diagnosis, but with a message of trying it for three weeks. If it helped, they should keep going. And the one to evaluate this was the teacher – newly added from another part of the country, who didn't know the student in seven years! He would evaluate whether this was a proper drug! What may be more worrying in this very small municipality is that at the central school in one class there are four students who also go to Ritalin. Which municipality I'm talking about, which school I'm talking about, is hardly particularly interesting. It can be documented, and it should get bells to call both here and there! And when we talk about the good, critical use, I just want to point out that doctors in this country have for many years prescribed sedatives; Vival, Valium, sleeping medicine, painkillers like Paralgin forte, and all these have been abused over time by larger and smaller groups of the Norwegian population. We know that, but we're not doing a hell of a lot with it!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e554	I would again like to take this opportunity to stress that there is a broad consensus in Norway that Ritalin should only be used for specific indications, that it should be prescribed by a doctor, and that it should only be done after special authorisation. There is also a consensus that the diagnosis problem is difficult here, as well as perhaps the professional assessments of the effects in individual cases. I think the representative Evje described the effects as that the soul is inserted into the dark chamber. Well, I guess it says a little bit about how diffuse this could also be called. However, I believe that from a medical point of view, we have a proper use of Ritalin in Norway. So a little bit about the use of statistics. Some of the increases mentioned here are probably related to improving diagnostic capabilities. It is also the case that when a medium is used, it is natural that it appears as an increase in the overall use without the need to result in excessive use in the individual cases behind it. I would also like to warn a little against comparisons internationally, comparisons with other countries, because there are a lot of different rules, there are a lot of different attitudes, and there are a lot of different times for introducing the use of the instrument, which makes those comparisons somewhat misleading. Otherwise, there's agreement here, I think, that this is a both- and-problem in terms of medical and pedagogical matters. But as I've been in the past, it's been natural for me not to go into the purely pedagogical aspects. But I think we have sound guidelines for use. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to warn against some of the concepts that I believe are not adequate for the situation, for example. as ‘putting dope in itself’, and as a ‘medicalisation of behavioural problems’ in schools bordering on a culture. I don't think that's coverage to say. It's medications prescribed for students, and not for schoolroom conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e567	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e581	The background for me to travel this interpellation is that there have recently been outrageous conditions in our public hospitals regarding care for the sick and dying, especially children and their relatives. The thing that has made me most upset is the conditions of a serious heart disease and dying two-year-old, little Mathias. He did not have the parents with him as much as he needed, and as his parents wanted, because of rigorous visiting routines. The parents were told by the doctors that their boy's department was on, not a visiting department. Of course, parents are asking for ethical guidance for health professionals. But the story of little Mathias is not unique in health, unfortunately. I have received many enquiries from parents who have experienced about the same thing. I have also been contacted by doctors, nurses, and midwives who have said similar things. Patient representatives in different parts of the country confirm the impression and say that many of the complaints they receive from patients and relatives are about a lack of respect, lack of information and communication, exclusion and arrogant behaviour from health professionals. Of course, Norwegian health services are very good. Doctors, nurses and other health professionals often make outstanding efforts under very difficult conditions, and patients and relatives are satisfied with the treatment and care they receive. The professional and ethical standard is high in most people. However, there are still violations of patient rights and of the regulation on children in hospitals. For those involved, this is very serious and frustrating. The regulations on children in hospitals § 2-1 of 1997 clearly state: ‘Children in hospitals are entitled to have at least one of their parents with them during the entire hospital stay.’ Furthermore, the note of this paragraph on the right of access for family members and others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘If the child is very sick or dying, both parents shall be allowed to stay with the child if they so wish.’ But many people experience being shut out, and it is justified by adopted procedures at the hospital. I don't want to completely let go of the story of little Mathias, because what he and his parents experienced makes visible what many sadly experience. His mother wrote in an article in the Evening Post on January 23 the following: "We know there's a little boy who doesn't understand where we are and why we don't come when he needs us. ... The fear of being completely shut out means that we are obedient to the unreasonable rules we have received from the doctors: short visits without touching him, not talking to him, absolutely not pinching, he shall not notice our presence. We stand as two strangers and observe a child who struggles against death. ...In death we were allowed to keep him – be happy with him, and we hope we can once forgive ourselves because we were not there when he needed us the most. But we simply couldn't fight through the doctors' orders. This is the kingdom of the doctors – the supremacy was too great, and even if they put Norwegian law aside. The right of children to parents.’ This is a strong report and an incomprehensible and unacceptable treatment of children and parents in deep crisis and grief. The question we are all asking is whether it is really possible that this happens in the Norwegian health service. And I ask, where is the ethics, the values, the attitudes, the perception and the humanity? Are some employees in high-tech departments acting more as engineers than as co-workers and responsible professionals? Reference has been made to the legal requirement that parents and other visitors to children in hospitals should comply with the procedures of the department. There may, of course, be various reasons why in some situations it may be difficult to comply with the wishes of all relatives in any context – we who have long professional experience in health care know that – especially in departments where a fight for life is fought, so to speak, all the time. But there are no – absolutely no – reasons that are good enough to defend that children and parents should not get together when the child is seriously ill and dying. There is no excuse for professional procedures, narrow building conditions, organisation of work, staff shortages or poor finances. No, it can't be excused with anything. Whatever the circumstances, it must be possible to find solutions that can meet the need of children and parents, patients and relatives to be together in the final phase of life. It's basically a very traumatic experience for parents to have a seriously ill child. When the child is dying, it's even worse. Many parents are in such a situation, including patients. Many are in crisis and need follow-up and care, time and care. The fact that hospitals break the law is serious, but what is most serious is the lack of humanity, understanding and feeling. There must be something fundamentally wrong with leadership, the practice of routines and judgment when this can happen. We cannot accept that in our healthcare system – not under any circumstances. Head of the clinical ethics committee at Ullevål, departmental director Britt-Injerd Nesheim, says the following to the journal Sykepleien nr. 6-2000: ‘Complaints are often about the lack of popularism of doctors and nurses. It is clear that there are people in this system who like power and exercise it in a way that is not acceptable.’ She also believes that it is still the case in the healthcare system that patients are the ones at the bottom of the ranking ladder, saying that in many ways they do not get the respect they deserve – for my part, I want to add: and of course they have a right to. Patient rights have been strengthened in recent years, but obviously not enough. It must be obvious that they are being followed. The patient first! must be more than one slogan. Because this is about fundamental values in our health care system and what it's going to build its entire business on. It is precisely with the individual patient and with the family that the value base for healthcare is really being tested. These meetings are the very test of whether healthcare is human and ethically sound. Without taking care of the human aspect, the service is not professionally sound. If the individual is to be seen and met in a good manner, good and flexible procedures must be ensured and ethically sound practices are to be expected. Doctors, who have medical responsibilities, cannot cover themselves behind medical reasons and professional procedures in order to avoid unpleasant parents or other relatives. Some are strong and dare to oppose, say so and set requirements. But most people can't do it. It's not hard to understand. But they have to be saved to have to wage such a struggle in a difficult life situation. Therefore, the rights of patients and their relatives must be respected! In health today, technological knowledge is not lacking. But what might seem to be missing in some situations is a conscious relationship with the ethical perspectives and values. Dr. Reidun Förde has said this: One step forward for technology and science should be two steps forward in raising awareness, morals and ethics. Now we do the other way around. The doctors have the medical responsibility and the final decision in terms of treatment. Paragraph 25 of the Medical Act on Good Medical Practice states that under this provision, every doctor is required to carry on his or her activities properly. This applies not only to medical matters but, according to the law, means that the doctor should do his best to provide his patients with skillful and caring help. It is clearly a managerial responsibility to ensure that employees have an acceptable ethical standard on a daily basis. The value debate must be a natural and integrated part of the trade debate. Professor of Medical Ethics Jan Helge Solbakk wrote in Dagens Medisin on 2 March this year that the experience of continuing and continuing training of health professionals has shown that it has been difficult to find room to put ethics and value questions on the professional agenda. This must be done by the professional community and by the individual professionals! What I want to challenge the Minister of Health at the moment is what he wants to do to ensure that the right to companionship is respected and that patients and relatives are properly cared for. And when hospitals break the law and the guidelines – what means will he use against these hospitals? For some consequences, must the fundamental rights of patients be violated?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e651	It is important to promote the rights of patients and their relatives and to strengthen their right to care, sound and respectful treatment. Patient rights law strengthens the legal position of patients and their relatives. The law has a separate chapter on special rights for children. One of these provisions is the right of children to be accompanied by at least one of the parents or others with parental responsibility during the entire residence of the child, unless it is inconvenient in the interests of the child. The rights of children, which are now governed by the Patient Rights Act, reinforce the existing regulation on children in hospitals. Draft revised regulation has also been consulted recently. A general right for patients and relatives in relation to association has not been adopted. This right applies only to children. However, the Patient Rights Act provides that if a patient wishes other persons to be present when providing health care, this shall be complied with as far as possible. Furthermore, several new provisions of the Patient Rights Act have been adopted which regulate the role of relatives. These provisions have taken into account the situation of the dependants, while at the same time seeking to maintain the patient's personal integrity. Among other things, the patient’s closest relatives should: to obtain information about the patient’s health status and the healthcare provided, as is also the case in today’s law. However, such information presupposes that the patient consents to it or that the circumstances otherwise indicate that information may be provided. If the patient is unable to take care of his or her own interests, the patient and his or her immediate family are entitled to information. The immediate relative of the patient shall also be consulted in the decision on health care of a more invasive nature if the patient does not have his/her own consent. Today's medical law requires proper medical practice. This also implies an obligation to show care to patients and relatives. This obligation has been clarified and reinforced in the new health laws. Unfortunately, many people, patients as relatives, may feel more like objects than humans. Therefore, the requirement for caring assistance is very important for health care to be said to be humane and ethically sound. It cannot be said that healthcare is professionally sound without the humane basis being ensured. Meetings between patients/ dependants and service providers should therefore be at the heart of healthcare. In this context, it is important to ensure that the wishes and views of healthcare users, i.e. patients and relatives, are heard, both on a case-by-case basis and in the planning and development of services in their entirety. I don't think there's any disagreement between the interpellant and me as to the significance of these guidelines and these relationships. It is essential to provide room for interaction between the user and the service provider so that it becomes natural and is not considered unpopular to give one’s own views on how the service can be provided. So my opinion is that the rights in relation to family relationships are strengthened and not weakened in the new health laws. However, in some situations it has unfortunately been found that practices have not been satisfactory. However, I believe that this is an exception, and in general I would say that I trust that the Norwegian healthcare system masters these challenges. The exemptions are not less serious for that reason. In many situations, health professionals will be able to face conflicting interests to be addressed in the best possible way. In the interests of the working situation of staff and in the interests of other patients, it will, for example: be necessary to set up business hours to regulate the flow of relatives and other visitors. Of course, this is expected to be done in a reasonable and appropriate manner. To the concrete questions of what I as the Council of State would like to do to ensure that the right of association with relatives is respected, I would say the following: Owners and managers have a clear responsibility to organise the situation so that each health worker complies with his statutory duties. The Specialist Service Act specifies the responsibility of the owner and manager for the soundness of the services provided or provided. To a large extent, it will be within this right of governance to decide which measures are to be implemented in this context. The needs for action need to be assessed in a concrete way in relation to the types of tasks involved. It is not possible, nor desirable, for the Ministry to regulate the activities of hospitals and other institutions in detail. According to the Health Professional Act, health professionals are themselves responsible for carrying out their work in a sound and caring manner. However, in order for health professionals to be able to fulfil their obligations, the owner and the manager need to facilitate this. The overall responsibility of the management for respecting obligations and rights also implies an obligation to establish an internal control system for the activities and to ensure that activities and services are planned, carried out and maintained in accordance with generally accepted professional standards and requirements laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. This is the result of the Law on State Supervision of Health Services. The county doctor shall ensure that all health care providers have such internal control systems in place and control their own activities in such a way that they can prevent failure of health care. Furthermore, it follows from the Supervisory Act that the State Health Authority has the overall professional oversight of healthcare in the country. I therefore refer to today's system, where the State Supervisory Authority in this area is attached to the State Health Authority and County Medical Services, as a matter of fact, to the question of the means that I as the Council of State will use in relation to hospitals that do not respect the rights of association. For the state hospitals, however, it is clear that as a representative of the hospital owner, I have a separate responsibility for the fact that the conditions are conducive to compliance. This was, among other things: updated in connection with the specific case at the Rikshospitalet. In connection with this case, the Rikshospitalet has made a statement about the course of events and the hospital's routines to the department. Since then, the Ministry has been briefed on the hospital's handling and follow-up of the case. The Hospital Department has gone through its procedures and is now trying to find solutions to better adapt the conditions of the department so that the needs of patients and their dependants and their statutory and regulatory rights are properly respected. A prerequisite for respect for the rights of patients and their relatives is that both parties, both healthcare professionals and patients and relatives, are familiar with the legislation. I would assume that the non-compliance with legislation can often be explained with lack of knowledge and information. In a recently published article in a medical journal, a survey shows how children and parents experience compliance with hospital regulations. It is concluded that the regulation does not reach children and parents satisfactorily. The lack of knowledge of the regulation by parents and staff is likely to contribute to varying compliance with the regulation in hospitals. The regulation is now, as mentioned above, under revision, with the new regulatory home of the Special Health Service Act. The new regulation continues, inter alia: the provisions requiring parents to be supplied with the regulation at the same time as the notification of the date of the application or at the latest at the time of the submission. Furthermore, it is proposed that health professionals in departments receiving children should be well aware of the content of the regulation. A prescription for a patient-responsible doctor is now being worked on under the Special Health Service Act. The aim is to create security and continuity for both patients and family members during institutionalisation. The patient-responsible physician shall, as far as possible, be the patient’s fixed point of contact throughout the period of hospitalisation. I have great faith that this arrangement will remedy some of the impotence you can feel in a disease situation. The patient-responsible system must be seen in conjunction with the health professionals’ provision that a person should be appointed to provide information to the individual patient in a health institution. This person shall coordinate and control the information to be provided to the patient and his/her immediate family. This shall prevent different information from being provided by several teams to the patient and to the patient an unclear and confusing picture of the patient’s health status. The mechanisms in the new health laws to ensure that patients and their relatives are more able to get specific contact persons to deal with could have the potential to create greater safety and trust in healthcare. The legislation on the legal status of patients and their relatives has, as mentioned, been significantly improved by the new health laws. However, I would like to end by stressing that the laws and regulations are not enough to give patients and their relatives the care and care they need in a difficult situation. The values and attitudes of individual health workers to patients and their relatives become very important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e687	I thank the Council of State for the thorough answer. I think we are fundamentally in agreement with the most important thing. If everything that the Minister of Health was involved in here by laws, regulations and measures were followed up, everything would be fine. But there's still one piece left before we get there. I think it is good for the Minister of Health to stress that owners and managers have a clear responsibility to organise the situation so that the individual health worker can comply with his statutory duties, and that he specifies that the Stortinget has adopted the responsibility of the owner and the manager for a sound health service. The Minister of Health also referred to the other health laws adopted in Stortinget. They're good. They will strengthen the rights and legal position of patients and their relatives. That's why we've adopted them. But they have to be followed up, and some have to take the overall responsibility when health care fails and the laws are broken. On my question as to which instruments the Council of State will use in relation to hospitals that do not respect the right of association, he refers to today's system, where the State Supervisory Authority in this area is entrusted to the State Health Authority and the County Medical Board, and that they are responsible. Furthermore, the Council of State says that he as a hospital owner is responsible for the state hospitals and for compliance with the rules and laws. But it is probably the case that the Minister of Health also has a general responsibility for the fact that laws adopted in Stortinget are being followed up at the other hospitals as well. I would like an answer to that question. I have also not received an answer on the consequences for hospitals that violate the laws and regulations – because they must have consequences? You can't just break laws, regulations and patient rights without it having any kind of consistency. If the county doctor and the State Health Authority do not take their oversight seriously, who is responsible? And then who has to do something about it? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e703	When I referred in my statement to the current system, where health care and county doctors are responsible for supervision, it is also that I believe that, to a large extent, we have the means to carry out both effective supervision and to ensure that the laws and regulations that apply are complied with. With regard to the responsibility of the Minister of Health in this regard and the use of instruments, I would like to work precisely through the bodies mentioned here, i.e., the Health and County Medical Services, when the instruments are to be used. In the case of state hospitals, as mentioned, I also have a more direct responsibility as the State representative. But it is true, as it was said, that the Minister of Health of course has the overall responsibility to ensure that the laws and regulations adopted are also complied with in the Norwegian healthcare system in general, whether it is state hospitals or other hospitals. I also fully agree with what is still being pointed out that when this happens – exceptionally but seriously – it has to have consequences. I fully agree with that. And I also think that, in general, we have been too careful to ensure that consequences are put into effect, and that the consequences that apply are made visible throughout the healthcare system, so that it is demonstrated that when regulations and rules that have been adopted, and the intentions with them, are not followed, then it has consequences. I take clearly the advice I receive in this regard, and I want to help make clear the consequences when such a breach occurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e712	I also want to angle this in my post in relation to the story of Mathias, as many people now know, because it puts words on the problems we are now debating. The story of two-year-old Mathias' tragic disappearance has made a deep impression on all of us and is a serious waker for many of us. I actually didn't think it was possible that this could happen in Norwegian hospitals today. When Mathias' parents have wanted to go out publicly to tell what they experienced in the operation at the Rikshospital and in the last days of Mathias' life, it is for history not to repeat itself, that other parents should not feel so powerless in a situation where there is a small child's struggle for life and death. The parents of Mathias wanted to be with him all the time while he was at the hospital, but was not allowed. When the parents of Mathias felt that they were pushed out on the sidelines of professionals and authorities in a very difficult situation for them, there is something that does not work as it should in the Norwegian health care system, and we cannot be aware of that. There are authorities in society, we know that. But they can't have such a strong position that others become lawless. If you look at the prescriptions for children in hospitals, as the interpellant also pointed out, it is quite clear in § 2-1: ‘Children in hospital are entitled to have at least one of their parents in their home during the entire stay of the disease’. According to this paragraph, everything had to be fine. But then the next paragraph, which says, ‘Parents and other visitors to children in hospitals shall follow the procedures of the department and follow the instructions of the staff’. Then everything becomes so much more vigilant. Then there will be no right to be with the child anymore. Then the doctors and health professionals will decide, and the parents will be offered them. I have previously, to the previous Minister of Health, asked questions about the rights of children in hospitals with a background in the matter of Mathias: What rights do parents have when they have children admitted to hospitals, and what professional ethics guidelines exist in such cases? I received the reply from the Minister of Health at the time that this will be followed up in the big message that we now have for treatment in Stortinget. But I do not feel quite convinced that this has been followed up. Therefore, I feel that it is absolutely necessary that, during the discussion of this matter here in Stortingen, we come up with concrete, binding decisions that show how we want it in the Norwegian health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e735	It's really sad that such relationships are revealed as the starting point for this interpellation, and I'm glad that the representative Sjøli has traveled the interpellation. I started my working life as a nurse as early as 1956. At that time, there were rigorous provisions regarding contact between relatives and patients, and there were very restrictive procedures around visiting hours and visiting hours. There was one law in force in the Norwegian hospital at the time: it was the superior's word and the superintendent's word, even in such contexts. I actually thought that the situation today was quite different from what is revealed in this example from the Rikshospital, and I still think that this extreme example must be one of the few exceptions in the system. But I can tell you that during the last weekend I had a little pleasant experience with a hospital in relation to the patient/supplier. So it's unfortunately -- if not equal to this -- a lot to go on before you get a human view of our professionals who are acceptable. I don't think the way to go is to add up to rigorous regulations in detail. We need to build on references and recommendations to our hospital professionals to behave, I would say, people in relation to the patients' relatives and the patients themselves. You can't get to those degrees taken by the casus that you forget about the human being. And there I think we have a fairly unfortunate development going on in our public hospital. Then I have to say that I have a sense of what the Minister for Health said, that when conditions like this are revealed, there must be consequences. I said in a previous interpellation here in the hall today that this concerns different conditions that are discovered and that are unworthy, in both health and care. There must be consequences for the individual who has made the provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e748	Our ambitions for a healthcare service that meets patients and relatives with comfort, care, empathy and respect for human dignity in difficult situations in life, are seriously set back when we become acquainted with stories like the little boy of two and a half years who died in the Rikshospital just before Christmas without the parents present. It shook us all. Both health professionals and elected health professionals lamented and promised improvements. In the November Question Time, the then Health Minister, Højbräten, said that a draft new regulation on children’s stay in a health institution was being consulted. It says, among other things. that children have the right to have at least one of their parents with them throughout the hospital. I expect that the new Minister of Health will follow up this work and ensure that the right of association with relatives is respected. Much indicates that the parents do not know their rights. In the last issue of the Medical Association’s journal, there is an article about the rights of children in Norwegian hospitals. A large survey has been carried out among children and parents on how they feel that these requirements are being met. It is concluded that only half of them stated that they had been provided with the ‘Regulation on children in hospital’, even though it is clear from the regulation that they are to be handed over to their parents at the same time as the date of the hospitalisation and at the latest at the time of the hospitalisation. Here, there is a clear potential for rapid improvement that can provide related better information. The study also found that the requirement that children should preferably be taken care of by the same staff is not adequately followed up. The decision on a patient-responsible doctor should be followed up. The fact that the doctor becomes a permanent contact person during hospitalisation will improve the continuity of treatment. The positive findings in the study found that parents’ rights of association were satisfactory. The sister and friends were allowed to visit. We can never guarantee that there will be no negative things and mistreatment in the future. What we should all be doing is thinking about what attitudes we're facing sick and dying with. In his book The Road to Karlswagen, Jon Magnus gives an undefiled version of the health care system. He says that people's culture is lacking in Health-Norway. He recalls that health professionals who have hospitals as their daily work must understand that hospital life can never be everyday for patients and their closest ones. As a representative of the Christian People's Party, I am proud and happy that the government Bondevik presented a NOU on "Life Aid", which is about providing care and optimal relief to people in the final phase of life. How health services meet people in the final phase of life is an important measure of the awareness of the value of the sector. It is important that the ongoing individual decisions taken daily in our health institutions are anchored in overall policy choices of value and strategy. At St.meld. No 26 for 1999-2000 "If values for the Norwegian healthcare service" are today a syllabus in some nursing schools, a good start in attitude work towards the sick and dying.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e765	Today we consider it a matter of course that children should have their parents with them when they are admitted to the hospital. When I was a child, my little brother had a long hospital stay at the age of 6. We were not even allowed to visit him, and when he finally came home after several weeks, he was afraid of the sounds in our home, and it took a long time before he found himself right and became a happy boy again. I am therefore pleased that for many years now there has been a regulation on children in hospitals that gives the right to have at least one of the parents present. This is extended to hospitalisation in other healthcare institutions, in the Patient Rights Act. Health services must be humane and ethically sound. The requirement for caring assistance is central. It must be that patients feel that they are in good hands and are being cared for in the best way. Both patients and relatives need to be heard. In a busy hospital day this may at times be difficult. It is therefore necessary to have procedures in place for an interaction between treatment and patients or relatives. By working on the renewal of health laws, the size has both clarified and strengthened the obligation to show care to patients and relatives. Health professionals have a statutory obligation to take responsibility for their work themselves in a sound and caring manner. But in order for them to have this opportunity, of course, the owner and the manager have to make it possible. Management has overall responsibility for respect for duties and rights. I think it is very important that the internal control system for the business is established and functioning, and that activities and services are planned, implemented and followed up in line with law and regulations. The county doctor shall be responsible for supervising the establishment of a control system. It should contribute to the absence of failure of health services. The State Health Authority has the overall professional oversight. The legal status of patients and their relatives has been significantly improved by the new health laws. It is important that patients and relatives meet with care and care that they really need in a rich way in a difficult situation. And there is nothing that is adopted, but that lies in the values and attitudes with which health workers meet the sick and their relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e784	It is commendable that some people take the trouble and the burden of presenting their maximum personal experience to the public. That's the starting point for today's interpellation, which is also a very timely interpellation. It's only when individuals give face to experience that they become real, and that it's really possible to learn from them. But the underlying problem is probably a system problem or maybe a cultural problem. The modern health system is a very complicated organism with an innumerable number of special prostheses and with quite heavy professional systems and routines. This means that the reality, one and the same reality that exists in a hospital, will be perceived to be vastly different depending on where you are in the system. I read a main paper by a nurse a few years ago that made a strong impression on me. She had asked the same question to all the categories that worked at one of the major hospitals in Oslo, from the superior to the laundry service and the patient. She asked them the same question: do patients at this hospital have their information needs met? On top of the system, the answer was 100 pst. ‘Yes, at my department, everyone is covered with their information needs – sauna!’ For every step you went down, the yes-percentage decreased and the no-percentage increased, and when you had come all the way down on the floor, to the patient, practically everyone replied that ‘I can’t meet my information needs’. Subjectively, it's obvious that all these actors answered honestly, and they experienced one and the same reality – but it's still not one and the same reality for the superiority on the top of the system and the patient on the floor. The story of little Mathias and his parents is a profoundly instructive history, precisely because it shows the tremendous communication problem faced when professionals, highly specialized professionals, who think they know everything, will also experience reality from the other side and be able to understand how reality is perceived from the other side. Perhaps the Health Minister would consider, as a long-term measure, entering as a compulsory part of medical training that one has been admitted to hospital sometimes and has experienced reality, because perhaps it is only in the way that it is possible to learn?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e797	I'm not going to discuss the last idea of hospitalization as part of the medical study. This interpellation is unfortunately timely, and I hope it gets a positive result. I'm just going to record one relationship. The Council of State and the representative Woie Duesund referred to a study published in the Norwegian Medical Association Journal on the rights of children in Norwegian hospitals. There were some positive conditions there. Among other things, it was that between 82 and 93 pst. of the children had been with parents all or almost all of the hospitalization, and in regional hospitals and central hospitals, three quarters had visited the siblings, so it is not a clear black picture. I guess we'll remember when we get these examples of how it shouldn't be. Then the Council of State shows that the legislation has been improved, and that is correct. But the conclusion of that article is that the regulation on hospitalized children does not reach children and parents in a satisfactory way. The lack of knowledge of the regulation by parents and staff contributes to the varying degree of compliance of the regulation in hospitals. It's serious, and it was the Council of State, too, but I would like a clear signal from the Council of State. Now that the rights of children in hospitals are further guaranteed by patient rights legislation, will the Council of State take an initiative so that the new regulations really come out and both become known among hospital staff and, as it is to be done, are distributed to the relatives, as they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e806	I would like to thank everyone for a good debate. I hope this debate and the further discussion of St.meld. No 26 on health care values can help to raise these issues on the agenda of the professional community, patient organisations, hospitals and, not least, the political environment in the future, because there is a need for a continuous debate on these issues. We all have a responsibility to contribute to the dignity of health services and to the respect of the rights of patients and their relatives. This cannot be ensured only through legislation and better organisation of healthcare. No, that's not enough. It can only draw up the external borders, because this is ultimately about attitudes, which the Minister of Health was also concerned with. It requires continuous work and a debate in educational institutions, in the different disciplines, within hospitals, and greater emphasis needs to be placed on the responsibilities of managers. Cooperation with patients and relatives needs to be strengthened. There is a resource in such a context that is too underutilised. As the Minister of Health was in the Chamber, we must now put this in place with patient-responsible doctors. The role of the patient ombudsman must be strengthened and the supervisory system must work. If it doesn't, there must be consequences, as the Minister of Health said. I am very pleased that he could confirm that he will follow up on the consequences for those who do not follow the laws and regulations. I think that's absolutely necessary. It is also necessary to ensure that the wishes and views of patients and relatives are taken into account, not only in the current treatment situation, but also in the planning and development of healthcare provision. As Inge Wohnning had to say, those are the ones who stand up in it and are part of real life, who also have the necessary experience and knowledge of how we want it to be. There is a lot of work left here. There has been a great deal of positive in relation to patients' participation opportunities. But all the things both I and the others who have spoken have been involved, must now be followed up and further developed. I look forward to the debate we're going to have on the fall of the paper on health care values. Then we will have more opportunity to deepen on these questions than we have in such a debate as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e817	In conclusion, it seems to me to agree that the problems raised in this interpellation do not primarily create the need for new laws and regulations. The necessary rights are laid down in laws, regulations and administrative provisions and have been strengthened in recent times. It is the practice, the enforcement of those rights. I think it must also be said that things have become much better in relation to the situation that the representative Alvheim described from his first years as a nurse. But as I said in my previous post: all the unfortunate exceptions are serious, and no such exceptions can be accepted on the grounds that they are exceptions. The practical problems that have been addressed and which such exceptions are likely to arise are, on the one hand, an information and communication problem, which has been pointed out. Patients and relatives are not sufficiently aware of their rights, and health professionals are often not sufficiently aware of their rights and obligations. In response to the specific question, I would like to say that I will take the initiative to further tighten this up and to strengthen information on those rights. Then, as it is pointed out, it is also a problem of attitude. I also do not want to comment on the proposal of the representative for compulsory education as part of the medical study. However, it has been pointed out – and that is something that has been done in the direction of – that the medical study must, to a greater extent and at an earlier stage, bring up these problems that are so obvious there and that are not of a new date, in order that new doctors such as we train should be possessed by attitudes other than those it is unfortunately referred to as so unfortunate. In other words, it is both an information and communication problem and an attitude problem. In conclusion, I would like to say once again that I think it is unusually important that we are able to take the consequences and make the consequences apply when these exceptions occur, and that information is also provided that consequences are put into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e839	For the consumer, who, for society as a whole, is a good contributor to quality and product development and to the provision of goods and services to consumers at acceptable prices. Competition is the driving force for efficiency and renewal, which means increased productivity and value creation. In all societies that have adopted free competition as a guide, we see growth and development. One of the main challenges facing governments in the future is to provide Norwegian business with rules and framework conditions that are no worse than what we find outside the country's borders. At the same time, if we are to enable Norwegian business to compete, we need to facilitate effective competition on the domestic market as well. What's certain is that if we don't get at home to prepare business for the increasing international competition, we'll lose market shares. Parts of our business life will fall away. However, the ability to convert must not be limited to the private sector. The need may be even greater in the public sector, because we in the public sector too need to be better able to impose productivity requirements and demand results from the resources we use. When we see that Norway is clearly different from comparable countries in terms of state ownership in business and in terms of the increase in the number of public employees, some warning lamps should be lit. We do not want to impose the same requirements on the public sector as those applicable to the private sector, as we already see signs of, among other things, poor use of resources and poorer services for users. at school and in the health care system. The fact that in Norway we have had a growth in public employment of 50 pst. Since 1980, there have been a number of concerns. It's in the wake of this development that there's created competitive grey areas here at home. Instead of strengthening the status and role of the Competition Surveillance Authority, we see examples of the review of the Competition Surveillance Authority’s decisions and of the oversight’s requests not being taken into account by the authorities. It is a significant competition policy problem that the Competition Authority does not have its own independent appeal body but that this function is left to the Ministry of Labour and Administration, which often puts other social considerations ahead of free and effective competition. There is also a significant problem that the Competition Surveillance Authority does not have the power to take decisions that could stop the distorting effects of public action, but must carefully address irregularities and request the Ministry to intervene. The right has with great interest recorded the general objectives of improving the efficiency of the public sector as announced by the Government in its Declaration of Accession. I hope this is serious meant. Yesterday's 1st May statement by several actors who are at the heart of the Workers' Party shows that the Government is getting dubious resistance from its own team. In several areas, it has taken public care of and is to carry out important social tasks in education and in the traditional health sector. In other and neighbouring areas which have traditionally been the subject of private offers and where private offers are emerging, consideration must be given to competition policy considerations. Whether in the areas of renovation, health, education, transport or other areas where the public sector has a dominant control, governance and regulatory role, tomorrow will impose other and greater requirements on the ability to change and the rise of borders. Although competition policy has a somewhat different status in each country, the EU is also at the forefront in this area. Competition policy is strong in the EU, as we have experienced at home through the EEA Agreement. First of all, there is a very strict cross-border follow-up. However, we see that EU countries are increasingly harmonising their legislation by creating a common competition policy. Our 1994 Competition Act is essentially different from the EU law by the fact that, as I said, we have a different appeal system. In the EU, the legal system is stronger. With us, appeals from the Competition Authority and the Department, in other words, go to a political body. I recommend and hope that it is added to a future independent appeal body in Norway. Then we will avoid the political overarchings and the grey zones of the Algae, and we will be less at risk of a state-owned and municipal mix of roles. The aim of the Competition Act is to ensure the efficient use of resources in society by facilitating effective competition. The Competition Act itself states that competition in a market results in business trying to use raw materials, capital, labour and transport systems as efficiently as possible. Competition stimulates the development of more efficient production processes and new products and services. This contributes to the production by enterprises of their goods at the wishes of consumers and at lower prices, i.e. to the benefit of consumers. The main objective of the Competition Authority is: ‘Competition supervision shall be: ... Work to ensure that the exercise of public authority does not restrict competition contrary to the objective of the efficient use of society’s resources.’;» This is where Norway has to think new. This is where the public sector in the area by area is protected, protected from conversion and protected from competition, with the deplorable result that overall there is less of the resource effort than would have been possible if the public sector had concentrated to a greater extent on the specification of requirements and the role of legislator and controller. Let me give you an example. When we see that the Wefsn municipality, contrary to the recommendations of the Competition Authority, is given the opportunity to establish and subsidize its own health studio in direct competition with the established and private training centre Health House, the limit is, in my opinion, far too far passed. The municipal subsidised centre is simply undermining the existence of the privately driven training centre. Wefsn municipality operates the Kippermoen sports centre, which consists of sports halls, swimming halls and rooms for strength training. The operation of the centre is financed from the budget of the municipality. In this case, the Competition Authority simply concluded that subsidisation is contrary to the purpose of the Competition Act on efficient resource use, as it could result in the sole competitor in the area being pushed out of the market and the municipal health studio being given a monopoly position. Competition surveillance concludes that where it is desirable to subsidise training in a health studio, subsidies should be as neutral as possible in competition. It can't be said more clearly. But unfortunately, we are also witnessing here that the Ministry of Labour and Administration, right under the Presidencies of the Council of State, pushes this matter into the grey zone box and states that the Ministry will not overdo municipal autonomy. In other words, local self-government is based on fundamental principles of competition policy and is given the opportunity to review the professional judgement of the Competition Authority. If the example in Web remains, it sends a very unfortunate signal that private enterprises are in fact virtually inviolable to municipal anti-competitive activities. Unfortunately, the example of Wefsn is not the only case where the supervision has found grounds to point out distorting public activities under Section 2-2 of the Competition Act. Over the last four years, 83 such cases have been identified by the supervision, without being able to intervene directly. In order to safeguard the interests of consumers and to ensure the minimum level of protection of private business under competition law, I therefore ask the Council of State whether he is willing to propose an amendment to the law to allow the Competition Authority to intervene directly against public anti-competitive activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e874	The representative Kristiansen takes up two aspects in his interpellation. In addition, he touches on a number of interesting themes in his article. Firstly, there is criticism of the appeal procedure for individual decisions under the Competition Act. Under the Competition Act, the Ministry is the Board of Appeal for decisions of the Competition Authority as first instance. Secondly, Kristiansen is critical of the fact that it is the Ministry which is the first instance in cases concerning allegedly distortive public activities, so that the Competition Authority is referred to as a proposal for intervention. The representative of Kristiansen believes that both of these conditions lead to a politicisation of competition policy, and asks whether the Council of State will take the initiative to establish an independent competition supervision that can also intervene against anti-competitive public activities. Initially, I have little understanding of the issue, because competition policy is policy and cannot be exercised by an unpolitical body alone. The appeal system under the Competition Act has been discussed several times in Stortinget even after the current Competition Act was adopted in 1993. In Ot.prp. No 97 for 1998-99 on the amendments to the Competition Act, the Government of Bondevik, in response to an order from Stortinget, gave a preliminary assessment of the complaint procedure under the Competition Act. The Bondevik Government announced in this proposition that it is appropriate to go through the whole of competition law and policy on a broader basis. It was concluded that amendments to the anti-competitive complaint regime should be thoroughly addressed in this broader context. All parties, except the Right and the Advance Party, joined this. As I expressed in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 97, I agree with the previous government's conclusion that the complaint mechanism under the Competition Act should be reviewed in the context of a major review of competition law. I will now be very careful to point out two points that specifically argue that the appeal procedure should be viewed in the context of other issues of importance and should not be considered in isolation. Firstly, the competition review procedure has an impact on the complaint procedure in other legislation, where it is also assumed that it can be intervened on grounds of competition, for example: in telecommunications legislation. If the system of the Competition Act is amended, amendments will also have to be considered in these areas. Secondly, the review mechanism under the Competition Act is closely linked to the development of legislation and procedures for the enforcement of competition rules in the EEA Agreement. Work is in progress in the EEA to modernise the legislation there. In particular, the Commission has proposed to facilitate the control of EC/EEA competition rules by national competition authorities. Therefore, one should wait to draw conclusions on the current complaint mechanism until the amendments to EEA legislation have been clarified. At present, the Ministry is working on a mandate and appointment of a selection for a review of competition law, as provided for by the Stortinget. However, I would like to make some comments directly on the issues raised by the representative Kristiansen in his interpellation. In my view, public and private acquisitions are treated equally in today's law. The criteria for intervention under the provisions of the law or exemptions from the prohibitions are the same regardless of whether the activity is carried out in public or private acquisitions. The only difference is that the intervention competence at first instance has been added to the ministry and not to the Competition Authority. This applies in special cases where a decision under paragraphs 3 to 10 of the Act on anti-competitive behaviour must be addressed to a municipal or county body. This was commented on by the then State Council in response to question 102 in 1999 to the written reply of the representative Kristiansen. I allow myself to refer from this answer, even though Kristiansen is clearly familiar with it already. ‘However, decisions addressed to municipal or county authorities are taken by the Ministry. This mechanism is justified by the fact that a professional body for which supervision is exercised is not required to over-examine local policies. ...When the Ministry deals with matters relating to public acquisition activities, all aspects of the case must normally be assessed and taken into account. This applies not only to competition policy but also to other policy considerations. Therefore, if necessary, we also involve other departments in the treatment. These are both cases where the Ministry is the Board of Appeal and when considering proposals for action by the Competition Authority. In the case of municipal bodies, the consideration of municipal autonomy must also be taken into account. There is an overall assessment of these different considerations’ — I repeat: an overall assessment — ‘which is the basis for the decisions taken by the Ministry. In some cases, considerations other than those of competition policy will be given priority and the Department will take decisions accordingly.’» The grounds for not adding the powers of intervention to the Competition Authority in cases involving municipal and county authorities are given in the preparatory work of the law. It appears that the scheme is in place to ensure that a professional body which the Competition Authority is not required to review decisions taken in local policy bodies. As mentioned at the outset, the intervention criteria set out in Sections 3 to 10 of the Competition Act are the same for public and private activities. This shall apply irrespective of whether it is the Competition Authority or the Ministry which takes the decision. It is therefore important to be aware that the law requires both the Competition Authority and the Ministry to assess both competition considerations and other specific considerations. In particular, the legislator – and it is the legislator who has decided this – has primarily thought about taking account of other policy areas. It is also apparent from the preparatory work of the Competition Act. The objective of the Competition Act on effective competition in order to achieve the efficient use of society’s resources must be seen as one of many policy objectives sought. To the extent that there is a conflict of objectives, the consideration of competition in individual cases of exemption or intervention must be weighed against other considerations, such as district policy, employment, environment, culture, etc. However, the supervision of competition as a first instance and the ministry as a review body may give a different emphasis to the possible conflicting considerations and therefore result in different results. So we're talking about legitimate considerations in relation to the law's judgment themes, and the decisions can't be said to be the result of a mix of roles or other external considerations. Such law’s discretionary themes are today, and any other alternative non-political complaint bodies would also have to make similar adjustments. Having said that, however, I would like to stress that the political objective of the law and the fact that competition considerations must be weighed against other considerations should not lead to the arbitrary application of the law. I agree, of course, that it is very important for the public to have confidence in public proceedings. It is therefore essential to avoid situations where there may be doubts as to whether outside interests might have affected competition authorities in the exercise of the competition law. A level playing field is important when public and private activities compete. The representative of Kristiansen argues in the interpellation that experience shows that in practice competition policy considerations are set aside when the department intervenes. To illustrate the scope of the ministry's review of the supervisory decision, I can refer to Chapter 6 of Ot.prp. No 97. In this respect, it is clear from the approximately 60 decisions of the Competition Authority which the Ministry has taken during the period between the entry into force of the Competition Act in 1994 and until August 1999, that the Ministry has initiated the complaint in eight cases. In four of these, the Ministry, for political reasons, gave rise to considerations other than the crucial importance of competition. In my opinion, the politicisation of the department's decisions under the competition law pointed to by the representative Kristiansen is deliberately integrated into the law. As I said recently in the debate in Odelstinget during the discussion of Ot.prp. No 97, we must not become so market-oriented that we do not see that there are also some other social considerations that need to be taken care of. If individual decisions under the Competition Act are to be depoliticised in the sense that only competitive considerations are to be given weight or always weightier weight, then there must be some major changes to the law, not only in the organisation of the appeal system, but even more to the law's intervention criteria. Assessment of the desirability of such changes is most appropriate in the context of a major revision of the law, which is in any case necessary and will start with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e923	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say I was rather disappointed with the reverse issue the Council of State is trying to turn this matter over to. What I'm talking about concerns business areas. I think it's a bit simplified when the Council of State refers to the main objective of the Competition Authority as one of many leaders, then I really start to wonder where the new government is going when they write so beautifully about modernising the public sector. You make the term inconsistency. The main objective of the Competition Authority is to ensure that the exercise of public authority does not restrict competition in contravention of the objective of efficient use of resources in society. I do not believe that public bodies other than the state, i.e. the county and municipality, should operate on the side of Norwegian law, but that is where there is direct competition with the private sector, that there are a number of examples, and I do not think that the number 8 bears witness to the fact that you have completely open ears in the department to deal with the complaints and anchors that had to appear. It must not go unnoticed when we see the far-reaching development of the public sector, where Norway is in a special position compared to whatever modern country in the world we want to point to, by having achieved a 50-pst increase in public sector employment. during less than 20 years. In that case, it is not appropriate to refer to the EEA Agreement and to the EU. I assume that the Council of State is well aware that the EU is barely moving in the direction of Norwegian development, rather the opposite. It is disappointing that one still wants to cultivate this grey-zone attitude to include it under the Vignette ‘municipal self-government’, and that this should remain a policy. I am convinced that getting the political concept cleared up more of the way in these grey zone cases could benefit both the public sector and private business. Here we should clean up and get more transparent relationships and give the Competition Authority a autonomy that allows us to have clear and tidy arrangements on the heel side.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e930	It is quite obvious that the representative Kristiansen and I have quite different starting points for assessing what is of social interest and what is really in the interests of consumers. The representative of Kristiansen has made it clear that only that is commercially reasonable is it also reasonable for the consumer. That's not true! The law allows for a discretionary assessment of these issues. It is not the case that the efficient use of society’s resources for the sake of the consumer is always consistent with private commercial interests. In fact, sometimes it may be the opposite, and then it must be the duty of political Norway to try these considerations against each other in such a way that the right conclusion can be drawn on behalf of its citizens, not just on behalf of those representing a commercial interest. What has therefore been done in the competition law is that the law has provided that in some areas there is a possibility of interpretation. A system needs to be set up to assess the purely competition policy considerations from time to time against other social policy considerations. I actually mean – and that is where I disagree with the representative Kristiansen – that it is a political task. And that's of course what the people say through elections, who decides who's in government and makes these assessments, and what's going to be the result. I can't see that it can't be done in any more democratic way. The fact that I and the representative Kristiansen belong to different ideological views should not be a secret. Therefore, my judgements from time to time will differ from Kristiansen's opinions – fortunately, both for me and him, on the basis of the mandate we have received from our voters. That this should be negative in the context of the renewal of the public sector, I cannot understand. But I have to admit that I have a completely different ambition, a completely different approach, in terms of challenges in the renewal of the public sector, than Ivar Kristiansen has, because he believes that if we just privatise and put off competition as much as possible, everything will go by itself. I don't think so. I have another angle of incidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e943	The Competition Act is a recurring theme in Stortinget. The debate has largely focused on the possibility of political governance and the possibility of appeals. I would like to point out that the Competition Act Section 2-1, as it has been adopted, ensures the need to control competition in order to make an effective use of the overall resources of society. It is also up to the Competition Authority to deal with exemptions from the law. Today’s two-way approach means that important policy objectives are not only assessed by competition law but ensure an assessment based on an overall analysis. This refers in particular to rural and cultural policy areas, where it is important to have exemptions from the Competition Act in order to maintain an equivalent service provision in the districts and to ensure important cultural policy areas such as film and literature. The Labour Party wishes to maintain the possibility of political governance in this area and does not consider a closer review of today’s appeal system, rather today’s practice. In this context, reference is made to the review of the suspension of the Competition Act Committee, NOU 1991: 27, where the Ministry pointed out the need for a decision-making process to ensure coordination between competition policy and other policy objectives, and that there were no specific considerations which would justify a derogation from this system. The working party cannot detect new recordings changing these ratings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e952	The interpellant said in his reply to the Council of State that he was disappointed with the reaction. I can understand that, because there's not much interest in this interpellation here in the hall today. But that's not nice. Here we have discussed this issue over and over again, and it is only to note that there is a political difference between the Progress Party and the Right and the other parties. It was expressed late in the treatment of Innst. O. No 48 in March of this year, when a majority was found to take care of what I would call the possibility of political judgement – it should just be lacking – because, as the Council of State said, competition policy is policy. It is not that it can be exercised without political judgement coming in. Here there are different considerations to take. I believe that the procedure that I realized that the Council of State in its first post raised in the further consideration and assessment of these questions is adequate for the view that the central parties have also expressed earlier, which was in the Ot.prp of the central government. No 97. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I look forward to the modernisation process announced by the Kosmo Council of State in the public sector. I think it is absolutely necessary that we go through the public sector and see how we can make better use of resources. There are a lot of ways to get on with this work, but I have a lot of confidence, and I'm also excited about, the playoffs that will come from the Council of State. I believe that within a system based on political governance, and where political judgement is given great importance, we can get a better public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e965	I wonder if the Council of State has at all heard what I said, when he gives me the opinion that I am only concerned with the business interests, and that it is only the business considerations that are going to argue. Then we're not talking about the same thing. I am talking about clean competition conditions, and I just find that the Workers' Party is not willing to take any review. I note that when Jens Stoltenberg, Prime Minister at the Telemark Labour Party's annual meeting, talks about internationalisation, about the need for the renewal of the public sector, there are things that are perhaps best suited to celebrations, and that we do not mean serious. The representative, Frank Willy Larsen, said directly that the Labour Party does not think it appropriate to review the Competition Act. I also note that, according to the Government's declaration, there has been no progress in this Chamber. Of course, it cannot be expected that the centre party would be concerned with these questions – when the representative, Enger Lahnstein, refers to little interest in these questions. There are people out there in the municipalities and county municipalities and fighting and fighting with cuts on the school chapters and on the health chapters, and when their own government made the art piece to manage to get the public sector, the municipal sector, to go with an operating deficit of NOK 11-12 billion, one certainly has a little of a starting point if you don't take the issue of public sector auditing seriously. Just to exemplify it: when you are not willing to have a review at all, it means that you think it is okay for a municipality to run a health studio in competition with a privately established offer. It is okay that a municipality rents out subsidised services for strengthlifts and other things that people who are healthy and mobile should be able to pay out of their own pocket. There are several examples. At least no grey zone system should be established in Norway for further breeding purposes, which clearly makes it possible to contribute to the suppression of established private sector offers. I think there are a lot of people around – both in the public sector and not least in business – who think it is sad. I assume that we will gradually meet these questions since, not least through EU directives, which fortunately have taken this much more seriously than one has been willing to do on the part of the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e974	In fact, unlike the representative Kristiansen, I believe that we have clear competition conditions both in the private and public sectors in Norway. Then you can have different levels of ambition in relation to what you mean to achieve by stimulating competition. And as I was in my post in the future, I recognize that I and the representative of Kristiansen have a different ideological starting point. But I can assure you that the interest in and the willingness to renew the public sector is present at least as much with me as it is with Ivar Kristiansen. And as the representative, Mr. Enger Lahnstein, said, there's a lot of opportunities to reach significantly longer in the renewal process to get this done. But one of the prerequisites that must underpin the understanding of this both here in this house, in the Government and in the various departmental offices is that more of the implementation of welfare policy must take place locally. In fact, I believe that local politicians are better able to understand what serves their own inhabitants than this house is. But Ivar Kristiansen is more concerned that this house should sit and decide what the municipality should do at its health centre. What I think is going backwards into the renewal process in the public sector. The public sector renewal process must involve making this house, government and state agencies regulate less and leave more to local administrations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02.ana.ud1892e981	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
