ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e15	The President proposes that the representative Lisbet Rughtvedt be elected to the Lamentations Committee. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e29	The 1990s have been a difficult decade for Balkan countries. The four-year refugee disaster was the most recent of many serious humanitarian crises in the region. These are two necessary aspects of Norwegian aid to the Balkans. Firstly, we need to provide humanitarian assistance to people to survive and build their homes, rehabilitating schools and health services. Secondly, Norwegian policies towards south-east Europe must have a long-term and comprehensive perspective aimed at democratising and establishing a solid economy. When St. Report. No 13 for 1999-2000 was sent to Stortinget in the fall, many hundreds of thousands of returnees in Kosovo stood in front of a harsh winter. The uncertainty about how people would survive through winter was great. It was correct for Norway to use significant resources for traditional emergency services such as food, clothing, shelter and medicine. Repair and reconstruction of dwellings were also essential. The main lines of St. meld. No 13 is reasonable, but SV will challenge increasing efforts. We should contribute more to the great tasks of creating peace and positive development in the Balkans. The cost of reconstruction after years of war and conflict has been estimated from various sources at least DKK 400 billion. SV will propose that the Government submit a plan for further reconstruction appropriations for the countries of south-east Europe, limited up to DKK 1 billion. The lack of money to rebuild after the war in Serbia is great. This is not least due to the financial penalties. A majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee, all except the Advancement Party, is in favour of raising most sanctions if a majority of EU and NATO countries do the same. This is positive. The democratic opposition that is working to remove Milosevic is going in at once. They say that the sanctions have not seemed to make the population more negative to the regime, rather the opposite. The weapons boycott and the sanctions against management shall remain, the other sanctions should be lifted. SV wants Norway to take initial steps to lift sanctions against Serbia. When we know that these sanctions affect ordinary people in a very hard way and at the same time have little effect in the desired direction, we can no longer defend the use of sanctions. SV believes that the Government, as part of its efforts to achieve a joint lifting of sanctions, should look at independent initiatives by Norway. It is important principles for Norwegian assistance that procurement and assignment should be allocated as far as possible to local enterprises, and that projects should be made available as widely as possible, including outside Norway. It has been a major problem in Kosovo that the EU has chosen to commit its aid and that what exists in local businesses is not prioritised. Norway is working to get other actors to cut off assistance, but has so far chosen the same line as the EU. SV believes that Norway should clearly indicate that we want a change here. SV assumes that the Government will work to disband assistance to south-east Europe. Assigning emergency relief and reconstruction tasks to local businesses should be an important part of the strategy for creating well-functioning economies. Long-term positive development depends on local business getting on the ground. Norwegian assistance and political contacts are linked to local partners who can help to strengthen local institutions and businesses and make countries in the region independent of assistance. The request for cooperation with non-governmental organisations is underlined in the Communication. Voluntary organisations often work through local partners, thus helping to support local skills building. The representative of Gundersen drew up a debate on the role of voluntary organisations and described it as 400 organisations have turned around in Kosovo looking for tasks. He has of course a point, but his presentation reduces this point quite sharply. Coordination of relief operations in an area that is crucial to Kosovo. In this, among other things, Important tasks of the UN organisations. But the fact that many organisations are present and willing to help needs to be seen primarily as a resource, not as a problem. My impression is that non-governmental organisations, such as the International Red Cross, have played a crucial role in getting people through this difficult winter in the Balkans. Support for various aspects of civil society must be an important aspect of assistance to south-east Europe. The difficult reconciliation process, which is necessary where neighbours have gone to bloody war against each other, must take place at grassroots level. Children and young people should be an important target group for awareness-raising activities, for education on human rights and peaceful conflict resolution, for cultural actions and exchanges. Norway has many competent children’s and youth organisations that can contribute to this work. In Kosovo, nearly half of the population are children under the age of 18. In the prevention of ethnic conflicts and reconciliation, children and young people in the Balkans can and must play an important role. We have many reports of violence in Kosovo. The main message says that one will consider measures against the collection of small arms. This makes sense. A major challenge less addressed in the notification is the possibility for refugees to return home. Serbia today has a large number of refugees from both Kosovo and Croatia. The situation in Croatia now involves an embellishment in relation to return, which is joyous. It is important that Norway has the objective of enabling as many refugees as possible to return to their homes. It is difficult to say that there is peace in the Balkans today, but the acts of war have essentially ceased. Now we have the opportunity to contribute to the realization of human rights in a more constructive way. I'm promoting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e59	Lisbet Ruggtvedt has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e62	Today we see the result of ten years of conscious provocation and conflict search, with war as an important tool, by Milosevic: war in Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo. The two countries that have escaped most easily are, after all, Slovenia and Macedonia. However, Macedonia in particular is in a very small stable situation and will be very vulnerable to further developments in the Balkans. Efforts are therefore important to stabilise the situation in the Western Balkans, also in the interests of those countries which have relatively high levels of stability, such as Slovenia and Croatia, Macedonia and Albania, and Romania and Bulgaria. There is no doubt that a bright spot in the area that has been noted in the last six months is the elections in Croatia, where social democrats and social-liberal parties have strengthened their position considerably. There has been a great deal of consensus in the debate today. A smaller element of disagreement on the part of the Progress Party and what I want to call a shade on the SV side is basically what you have been able to register. I am therefore not going to take advantage of all the questions that the committee setting relates to. First, a few words about the Stability Pact itself, which give cause for concern. There is little evidence to suggest that efforts in this area are solid evidence of good European cooperation in crisis management and follow-up following a crisis situation. Without necessarily solving the problems, I think it is important that Norway aims to achieve full status within the Stability Pact. With regard to the question of sanctions in relation to Serbia, I would like to take as a starting point that, in the various debates on Kosovo last year, the Left very clearly stressed that Serbia also had to be involved in the construction of the region, and that having a constructive dialogue with and in a constructive situation also with Serbia is essential. At the same time, one must recognise that there is a crucial problem in Belgrade related to President Milosevic and his regime. It is not unproblematic — so far away — to try a dialogue and try to take action in Serbia as long as Milosevic is seated. But at least in the case of humanitarian aid, it is important not to give the people of Serbia a sense of being forgotten. With regard to the sanctions, I believe that I am essentially content to agree with what Mr Blankenburg, the rapporteur, said in his speech, and to give a little additional reflection on sanctions a little bit more generally. There is no doubt that, in many contexts, penalties have proved to be a less appropriate instrument than they would have liked once penalties have been started. At the same time, there are some examples that, after all, they have given some good results over time. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that sanctions should have particular meaning and potential for progress, but at the same time there must be an opposition in each country with an interest in maintaining sanctions. Therefore, there is a significant question of how the opposition in Serbia deals with the sanctions. So I will essentially agree with what the rapporteur said. At one point, the notification and cancellation indicate that certain deviations are made in relation to the main position in the case of Norwegian aid. One is related to the question of recipient responsibility, and the other is related to the question of the binding of assistance. In the case of recipient responsibility, it is clear from both the notification and the setting that it should be sought to ensure that as far as possible. In other words, insofar as it is possible to establish a recipient organisation or recipients that can be brought into a position of responsibility in relation to the assistance, a commitment will be made to it. And I think it is important here to stress that establishing societies, perhaps especially in Kosovo, which are capable of being recipients of the various forms of assistance, is important. As far as binding is concerned, I believe that the situation as it is described, in many ways, is a good illustration of the importance of preventing assistance from being tied up. There can hardly be any doubt that having a number of actors within an area that has obligations in relation to its home country or its donor environment will create a difficult situation for the community to be assisted. Therefore, it is not least important to make use of the opportunities for purchasing and the opportunities for the provision of services and goods in the local area and in the countries in the area. In other words, accepting the introduction of a certain element of binding has to be more an exception than what is otherwise the nature of being the rule for Norwegian assistance. The aim must be to enable the widest possible range of services and goods to be traded locally. In the case of Norwegian efforts, there is also particular reason to highlight what is going on in developing society, what is going on in developing democracy, and not least in these countries, to be able to make different ethnic groups work together — at least as a minimum that they are tolerating each other and not becoming an eternal source of conflict. In this context, I think it is not least important to stress what Lisbet Ruggtvedt had to say, that it may be particularly important to take action in relation to children and young people. The situation will easily be that children and young people in these countries do not really know any reality other than that associated with having an ethnic conflict, to perceive the others as the enemy. And the fact that measures are being put in place in various ways to achieve a certain degree of cooperation and understanding between the peoples must be seen as very important in order to achieve the objective that we need to recognise so far only in relation to Kosovo in particular, that we have not been in the vicinity of, that is, to create a basis for a future, ethnically divided Kosovo – not in the sense divided by ethnic divides, but precisely with several ethnic groups in Kosovo. And what there may be reason to stress, especially as regards the situation in Kosovo, is that it shows very clearly how important a functioning rule of law is to civil society and to make a society work. And not least efforts in relation to the police and the judiciary are therefore also important in the course of the process. Finally, as Mr Petersen emphasised, it is important to have a realistic time perspective, Norwegian and European action in the Balkans will be necessary for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e90	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e93	The majority of the Committee has an earlier opinion, which states: ‘The Committee’s plurality’...’re the Government’s emphasis on work that could improve the situation for women.’ The latter has now also included children and young people to whom special attention should be paid. And my question is, can't he now be so kind as to include also sick and old, because then there are just some groups of men you don't have to pay particular attention to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e103	As I was a little bit involved in a previous line to the representative, Gundersen, it's clear that highlighting some groups can be perceived on the page, because if you take as a starting point that you're going to give help where the need is greater, it might in many ways lead to the same result. One approach that I think it might make sense to have, is that it's really a goal to give help to those who need it the most, and so you could say that this kind of remark would be unnecessary. On the other hand, I think it's a reality that children and young people, and in many contexts women, are groups that are at risk of becoming something invisible, and that it's not those who would now be the easiest ones if you weren't aware that you might especially have to take care of their interests. Without wanting to underestimate the importance of men in relation to children, I also think that one should look at the point that by caring for women's situation, one will probably reach the children in a good way too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e110	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e113	I welcome the broad agreement on Norway's contribution to south-east Europe that appears in the vote and that has also shaped the debate here today. It is of great importance when Norway is now making the best contribution to development. After all, there is a lack of economic development that now contributes greatly to political instability and increased ethnic contradictions. An important point in the debate has been the sanctions policy. Many have asked questions about it, not just here in the debate, but in many other countries. The Serbian opposition also questions whether the sanctions work properly. I must remind you that the sanctions policy is based on a Euro-Atlantic consensus. The majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is in favour of Norway cooperating with our allies to change the sanctions policy. This is the Government's complete agreement. I have also raised this question in connection with meetings that I have been to this last week. On the other hand, one-sided Norwegian measures are neither desirable nor appropriate. Norway will engage in an active dialogue with neighbouring countries with a view to achieving a more targeted sanctions policy that does not affect the Serbian people, but more directly the Milosevic regime and its supporters. As a handshake to the democratic opposition, Norway, in cooperation with the EU and other countries, found it appropriate this winter to supply a number of opposition-led cities in Serbia with fuel oil. The Norwegian ‘oil for democracy’ project is now finishing deliveries of a total of 1400 tonnes of fuel oil. In my opinion, the suspension of the flight ban was a correct decision, and I hope that in close contact with like-minded countries we can do something similar to the oil embargo. Norway, in cooperation with the EU, will examine the possibility of further support for Montenegro, without having to be seen as a support for detachment; on the contrary, Norway – and the EU – want Montenegro to be a driving force for positive development in Yugoslavia. The situation in Kosovo is turbulent, and everyone here has expressed it in the debate, and that is not strange. The ethnically-based violence and harassment of Serbs and the Roma continue. Crime is dangerously high and affects Kosovar Albanians as well as minority groups. The responsibility of Kosovo’s political leaders is important, but it has proved to be very difficult. Only a long-standing and focused international presence can provide hope for peaceful development in this heredous corner of Europe. The point of light, as many have pointed out in the debate, is the new Social Democratic Coalition Government in Croatia. It can be a catalyst for positive policy changes also in neighbouring countries. As the Committee underlines in its position, it is now very important to support positive developments in the country, including: We will continue financing housing projects in Croatia. Other projects in support of the country’s return have been submitted under the Stability Pact, and Norway will contribute to the funding. The point is that there is a need for a comprehensive regional focus on the challenges facing the countries of south-east Europe. The aim is that these countries should be able to enter into the same partnership as international and regional partners. The Stability Pact is a tool for a common approach to the reforms that the countries of the region need to implement in order to ensure democracy, stability and economic growth. The Financial Conference of the Stability Pact, which took place in Brussels last week, led, in my view, to good progress in the process. During the conference I made it clear that Norwegian assistance to the region will be given along the lines agreed under the Pact. Moreover, we have now committed to support specific individual projects under the package of more than 120 million. kr. I note that the EU has now taken more direct responsibility for the further development of the Stability Pact. This makes it natural for us to integrate our Balkan work more closely into our overall European policy. The government continues to provide strong support to the countries of the region, both in the humanitarian field, in the field of democracy building and through longer-term development measures. The total for the current year is about 800 million. to various assistance measures in the region. The Government is committed to concentrating efforts in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, including Kosovo and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to this, we will in the long term look at the possibilities to escalate the efforts in Croatia, which I have been in for. There is no doubt that the humanitarian needs of the region are still high. The government will therefore continue humanitarian aid to particularly vulnerable groups. In our long-term assistance, the Government wants to focus on three key sectors of major importance for the future of the region: firstly, infrastructure measures; secondly, measures to facilitate increased trade with the countries of south-east Europe; and thirdly, measures to promote democracy and social sector action. This strategy is outlined in St.meld. No 13th@item: The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, in its position, has expressed its support for the key points of this strategy, and I am very pleased with that. Then I will mention some topics that have been specifically addressed by the Foreign Affairs Committee in the vote, which I have not already touched on. One concerns Romania and Bulgaria, which is also affected by the persistent crisis situation in the region. I share the wish of the majority of the committee to achieve satisfactory cooperation with these countries as well, and have noticed what the committee says in the vote on this point. In line with the recommendation of the majority of the Committee, the Government will, if necessary, submit to the Grand Duchy proposals for supplementary or redeployment in order to have satisfactory cooperation with Bulgaria and Romania. The Committee also mentions Serbia and the conditions of the many refugees and displaced persons. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is among the countries to which the Government wants to devote the most resources. This includes strong efforts in the humanitarian and democratic field. Humanitarian efforts are particularly targeted at the many refugees, displaced and needy civilians. However, the current political situation in Serbia makes it difficult to implement measures on a larger scale than those already in progress. Finally, a few words about the binding of aid, which has also been the subject of the debate here. Of course, I support the objective of unbundled aid. But if we're going to get this done, it has to be based on consensus between the most important donors. There is currently no such agreement for south-east Europe. Both the EU and other important donors have committed their aid. I regret that we must therefore derogate from the principle of unbound assistance, but I find it both natural and important that Norway does so for as long as the central donor countries do so. However, the government will work actively to ensure that all major contributors disband their assistance to the region, so that Norway too can do so. In the end, I want to say that I think we all see in our eyes that we are facing a long-term effort throughout this area. We know that our presence in Bosnia has been prolonged and must continue. There is no alternative but for the international community to have patience and perseverance. This is the only way to force a more realistic approach from the different groups in the area and to achieve acceptable economic and political developments. It is this long-termity that must underlie our assistance in the area, and which I hope is also the basis of all the allies who were involved in the war and who must now take up the work of peaceful development based on economic and political democratisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e155	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e158	President, can I draw myself an article?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e164	No, the article can't come right now, because now we're in the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e167	All right. Then I think I'll pull, and then I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e172	The president can record Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on the list of speakers. Then it's Einar Steensnæs to line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e177	This debate has shown that there is a great deal of consensus between the parties here on the Stortinget. The Progress Party has special comments, and SV has also nuanced its views. Nevertheless, I would like to sum up, for my part, in the same way as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that there is a broad consensus on the Balkans policy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also confirms that the new government is mainly pursuing policy in this area in line with what the central government held as opinions. It has been useful that there has been a debate on sanctions. I think one on a more general basis would like to go into the debate and make it more detailed and more general. I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, like former Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk, will work to get rid of the oil embargo. The flight ban has now been lifted. When the Foreign Minister says that he wants to change the sanctions policy, I would like to ask if he adds that a combination of positive measures and sanctions is still important in order to contribute to the long-term construction of democracy and stability in Serbia, as the previous government agreed. Then I would also like to ask a little about Norway's participation in the Stability Pact, where, in 1999, by having the OSCE Presidency, we had a special position in relation to other participating countries. Now we are back with observer status, but the previous government worked to get us to participate with full rights. What is the situation today on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e188	I am happy to say the same thing as Steensnæs, that the current government is continuing the same policy that the previous government followed. With regard to the sanctions policy and the question of whether we envisage a combination of positive measures and sanctions, the answer to that must be yes. I guess no one in the committee, as far as I can see, is talking about the total lifting of sanctions. The arms embargo must be there. But what we're talking about is looking at whether you can target the sanctions more so that they hit the regime, and then combined with positive measures like Steensnæs. I think it'll be the right way to go. But I also want to say that there is no simple matter to do this. It has not been possible to get particularly positive reactions to what is formulated in the setting, in others. But we're from the Government's side set to work to get us an embellishment of this. As far as participation in the Stability Pact is concerned, it is true that Steensnæs said that we are observers there. After the meeting that was in Brussels last week, my impression is that we will be able to have full rights in the Stability Pact from the next meeting. I think I can say here and now that it will be all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e201	I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now signaling that the Government will work actively to change the sanctions policy. At the same time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that it may be a little difficult to get an understanding of the position taken by Norway on this issue. It might be interesting to hear in which case the arguments you think you should have in order to maintain a sanctions policy that obviously doesn't work as intended, which, on the contrary, may seem negative by strengthening what you want to weaken. So to the second question I have to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He stressed that we must expect a long-term presence in the Balkans. There is a complete agreement – that is one of the reasons why SV has a proposal today. Another reason why SV is concerned that efforts in the Balkans should be at the expense of efforts in other areas where there is conflict. Many of us said that we should have seen the situation in the Balkans earlier, being there before, being there more massive. Such situations are several places around the world, and if we weaken the budgets for such conflict resolution on aid in general to other areas of the world, we can easily come up with a situation where we become quick, and where soon terriblely expensive both in human suffering and in costs. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirm that it is the government's policy that efforts in the Balkans should not be at the expense of efforts on the aid budget or on the efforts for anti-conflict measures elsewhere where Norway finds it to have a role?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e208	I find it a little difficult to put forward other people's arguments for a sanctions policy that we are not in favour of, but I just want to point out that the EU Summit in Lisbon said that it would go in to target the sanctions more than is the case now, and I think that was uplifting. But it is clear that in the situation where the Milosevic regime is still in place, it is not easy to lift sanctions that have been imposed without the regime being able to collect a huge political gain. I think that's an important argument for not taking any big steps in the direction we want. As far as efforts in the Balkans are concerned, and whether they are at the expense of efforts elsewhere, I cannot see that this is the case for Norway. We maintain a very high aid share, at least in relation to what other countries do. It is true that some of the assistance goes on in the 03s field, but at the same time we have also increased the assistance, including in the UK. because our national income has increased. So I don't think what's happened in the Balkans has weakened our efforts in other parts of the world, but it's clear that it has taken attention away from similar situations, and perhaps even more dramatic situations, in other parts of the world. It's been a problem. On the other hand, it must be said that Kosovo is on our own continent, and it was not possible to avoid much of the focus in Europe being focused on this area when such dramatic things happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e215	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e218	Let me at the bottom of this debate just underline and elaborate some points that have been raised in the past. In my view, stabilisation and further development of political, social and economic developments in the Balkans depend on the two key countries Croatia and Yugoslavia. Among other things, the possibility of a planned and real repatriation of refugees depends on what is happening both in Zagreb and in Belgrade. It includes a humane future for so-called displaced person – or internally displaced person. It is important that the Committee has highlighted specifically the need for Norway to make a special effort towards the refugees seeking refuge in Serbia and other parts of Yugoslavia. These are in many ways the forgotten refugees in the world – refugees from Croatia, from Bosnia and internally displaced. Reports suggest that very many of these are living under some terrible conditions, if I can use such an expression. The new regime in Croatia has sown hopes among some of the Serbian-Croatian refugees – hope that they can now return to areas such as East Slavonia. The same applies to internally displaced croats. The choice in Croatia is also the most positive in the region following the collapse of Yugoslavia. The needs are enormous, and it is far ahead. According to the Evening Post, for example, unemployment in East Slavonia between 80 and 90 pst. I would like to stress, as the Committee does, that although humanitarian aid is urgently needed in the Balkans, long-term investment in infrastructure, economic development and democratic institutions must be the overall objective of the work to be an integral part of the Stability Pact. In this respect, let me also underline – as I have done earlier today in a reply to the representative, Gundersen – the importance of directing work towards women. We have thousands of single mothers here who have experienced that their men have been massacred or abducted. So in order to achieve a stable socio-economic development, it is necessary to focus on women both establishing their own businesses and securing work, not to mention that the schooling of women for political work must be an essential part of the Norwegian contribution to the Balkans. I am pleased that a broad majority of the committee is now asking the Government to work actively to change the sanctions against Yugoslavia. Let me add that I agree that this must be done in close cooperation with our allies. But I believe that it is innocent who are now affected by the sanctions, mostly ordinary people who do not take advantage of black exchange trading, who will always thrive in such situations – as we have also heard earlier in the debate today. Full isolation does not serve the long-term policy objectives either, on the contrary, it seems to consolidate the regime, which has hardly been the intention. Therefore, it is important that sanctions are discussed on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the objective of the sanctions and on the basis of how they work. I would also like to point out that the Serbian opposition believes that the sanctions are actually now strengthening Milosevic. In view of the fact that the solution to many of the development challenges across the Western Balkans lies in Belgrade and Zagreb, we should end with the total isolation that is now well under way. Finally, may I underline the importance of contributing to what I would call law and order in Kosovo. For what is a fact is that the ethnically-based violence and harassment of the Serbs and the Romani people – which the Foreign Minister also stressed – continue unfortunately. This means, of course, that the international presence must continue, but it also means that it is important that it includes a police force capable of maintaining law and order, and that we need to have a planned assistance to build up both a police force and other public agencies and institutions that can contribute to what this debate has just been about, namely a stabilisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e237	There is a broad consensus in the United Kingdom about the need for coordinated and coordinated channelling of funds into the Balkans. A broad majority support the reconstruction of the war-torn region and the use of Norwegian funds under the Stability Pact. Security in Europe is indivisible, and participation in the design of European security is also a Norwegian responsibility. Norway took responsibility through our contribution to the management of the Kosovo crisis, and we are now taking responsibility by contributing to reconstruction. This may also be an indication of a more nuanced approach to Europe and the EU. In that case, it will show the future, but the Right has noticed that the government of Stoltenberg has signalled new paces in our relationship with the EU. Our participation in the Stability Pact will be both a test piece and an opportunity for a new and active European policy. Project work under the Stability Pact will depend on the fact that stability will be possible in the Balkans. New riots around Mitrovica and other parts of Kosovo have shown that the heart of the Balkans will still be marked by great unrest. International forces are required and necessary in these areas. However, the Stability Pact is a broad one. By choosing a regional approach and including most countries affected by the conflicts in the Balkans, the EU and donor countries contribute to stabilising the environment around the conflict area itself. The hope is that this will be crucial not only for those countries included in a dialogue with Europe but also for those areas directly affected by strong ethnic contradictions and continuing conflicts. An important part of the prerequisites for the Stability Pact to work is that participating countries meet the requirements for implementing democratic reforms. Croatia has made considerable progress in recent times and today appears to be one of the driving countries for closer links with the EU community. Bosnia-Herzegovina is also making progress, but there are also major tasks here, including: as regards the integration of former soldiers into civil society. It is in this light that we must see the decisions to limit the participation of the remaining Yugoslavia in the Pact. Residual Yugoslavia is part of the region, but full inclusion in the Stability Pact will not be relevant until there are sure signs of compliance with democratic principles and willingness to pursue normal and peaceful relations with neighbouring countries. In the opinion of the Right, it is essential that the work on reconstruction is speeded up. The EUR 1.8 billion initial package agreed at the Regional Grant Conference last week is an important contribution to this. We're recording that the government has signaled a 100-million contribution. kr for immediate action. It will receive Right-wing support, but at the same time we will encourage the Government to come back with further efforts depending on how the donor process in the EU develops and what other EU countries use direct funds. For Norway, it will be essential to show that we are conscious of our European responsibility even if we are outside EU cooperation. South-Eastern Europe is an area we cannot overlook. The region has a population of 15 p.m. of EU 370 million. residents. A continued decline in living standards in this region could have a direct impact on European stability. Today it's still 1.7 million. people without a permanent residence in the Balkans. Continued war and instability could create flows of refugees into Europe. For this reason, it is important that Norway takes part in the responsibility for common European security. It must involve a more conscious and long-term commitment to our neighbourhoods in Europe. It would be strange if the aid nation of Norway did not take a significant responsibility in the European context. That is why we must be flexible in our future use of aid. The right has noticed that the previous government, albeit reluctantly, partially disregarded the principle of unbound assistance and would follow the EU on this issue. The right considers this to be correct and prevents Norwegian companies from obtaining conditions of competition that are less competitive than EU companies. We would therefore like to see the government follow this up in its further work, and also show that there is a majority behind the desire for a more flexible use of aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e252	It is positive that there is such a broad consensus in the Storting that Norwegian efforts in the Balkans should be part of a wider international division of labour. It is now important that the result be as good as possible in order to accelerate the peaceful and stable development of well-being and democracy throughout the region. The comments I would like to make on the Communication and the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the future Norwegian assistance to the countries of south-east Europe are primarily to underline the importance of achieving a coherent approach to overall work and action. I then keep the effort related to emergency aid during and after armed conflicts and natural disasters outside. As an example of this, I will mention the experience I have gained through aid projects in Bosnia, more specifically in Sanski Most and Banja Luka where up to 100 different NGOs from different countries are seeking to integrate their various projects into the region. In a plethora of projects, both multinational, state and private, in addition to the efforts of the UN, it will be difficult to achieve proper coordination. It goes without saying that this one has to do something with. Assistance to the countries of south-east Europe includes mainly emergency aid, humanitarian aid, mine clearance, health care, reconstruction of social infrastructure, housing, school life, the production of identification papers, the fight for human rights, the development of justice and legislation, questions of repatriation of refugees and, in particular, the development of business through trade agreements and micro-credit. The overall objective must, of course, be the development of democratic, multi-ethnic societies. The development of an all-round business is particularly important in order to achieve such an objective. Of course, this is a very complicated task in an area where purchasing power is almost zero and where the lack of trading partners is total. Unemployment is, as has been said several times in the debate, in some regions over 80pst. It goes without saying, therefore, that a strong increase in employment is most necessary in order to create normal societies that are able to perform important tasks for citizens related to such key tasks as health care, school and care for the elderly. The decline in unemployment is therefore a clear prerequisite for preventing new future conflicts and social unrest. Assistance will be more transparent and effective if, under the UN umbrella and on the basis of just the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, a concerted effort is sought. Therefore, I fully agree with the Foreign Affairs Committee's emphasis that if the Government finds that international cooperation is not working properly, yes, then the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs should present a more detailed long-term strategy for Norwegian efforts on the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e268	The Foreign Minister was involved in the harassment of the Serbs in Kosovo, and so was Marit Nybakk. This is also a key point in the area of relief work, as it is clear that as long as this harassment takes place, it will make aid work more difficult and less effective. Then it's natural to ask: why is this harassment going on? You have to have an opinion about that when you want to put an end to it. One possibility is that it is pure revenge, and it is understandable when you look at how the Kosovar Albanians have been treated. But I don't think that's the whole explanation. In fact, I believe that there is another explanation that is more essential, and that is that the international community, through the Rambouillet Agreement, has established that Kosovo is still to be part of Yugoslavia. It's perfectly obvious that the Kosovo Albanians want to avoid it at any cost. And how can you avoid that? This whole provision that it should not be an independent state, but be subject to Yugoslavia, is an invitation to try to chase the Serbs out of the country. In a situation where there are no more Serbs left, even the international community will have to understand that Kosovo can no longer be part of the Republic of Yugoslavia. The whole situation of the international community, the international law situation, provides a dynamic and a call for the Kosovar Albanians, who want independence, to chase the Serbs out. I have repeatedly expressed the unsustainable situation that Kosovo must be part of Serbia. Now we actually see one of the unfortunate consequences, which strangely none of us have affected here today. It's kind of taboo, although everyone inside really realizes that this is an impossible situation, which cannot continue for those who have suffered so much. We see how the Serbs act. The Milosevic system continues. There must be a terrible future in looking forward to the international community forcing them into all eternity in this system. Before getting rid of this idea of Kosovo being part of Yugoslavia, there is no end to harassment, and relief work is becoming considerably heavier and more difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e282	I think this setting is very good. It is high time we made a greater contribution to the fissure layer in order to ensure stability, peace and development in south-east Europe. I fully support what is said about penalties and could go further for my part. I have little faith in sanctions that primarily affect civilians and refugees. I share the Red Cross's views on this. A war economy has bad enough consequences for society. There were many sufferings we caused to the civilian population. Isolation makes the situation worse for innocent people and makes peace and reconciliation difficult. That is why the countries involved in the war must take a far greater responsibility for reconstruction, particularly in Serbia and Kosovo. We need more projects that can contribute to peaceful coexistence between Albanians and Serbs in Kosovo. Norway needs to provide significantly more assistance to the whole of the Balkans in order to stabilise the area. There are many tasks to be taken into consideration. The result of war is like endless misery. I think it is very good that you also use a few words on the situation of women in the setting. Of course, the war hits everyone regardless of sex and age, but women are often hit twice in a war. As a widow, they like to lose the right to housing, which is often linked to the husband's job. Rape is, as you know, a part of the war strategy, and it's like children testifying, and children are born as a result of these rapes. Besides, I don't think we're going to get reconciliation in the Balkans without women's participation. It is therefore not least important to involve women in democratisation processes. So there are some macho communities down in the Balkans. Women can play a key role in stabilisation. All processes are now man-dominated, and it takes money to reverse that situation. Reconciliation does not occur on command. There are painful processes between people who have long hated and suspected each other and made each other very hurt. But there is a will for reconciliation in many, and we must fully support it. History shows that there has been more willingness to use bullets and powder than to contribute to peace and reconciliation and building the Balkans. It's a shame. After the war acts stopped, the tensions and contradictions have only increased. It is not obvious that there are democratic forces that will replace Milosevic. Then I'll say something about the war itself. I was not in line with my party in this matter. I never believed that war was the way to go, and we who opposed the war never had any alternatives to point out. But I believe there were opportunities that had not been tried out before and during the Rambouillet negotiations. But NATO put the knife against its own throat through constant threats, the so-called threat diplomacy. It was the situation that triggered the acts of war. I don't believe and believe in the war propaganda from different NATO countries. The truth is the first loser in the war, it's said. I believe that the information of the nation's population and of the Storting should be more truthful, especially now in retrospect when we know what actually happened. I believe that we should discuss the war in plenary in Stortinget, as other European parliaments did. The decision is to remain with the Government, but I believe there is a difference between the role of the Great Government when we ourselves are attacked and when we are attacked, or engaged in foreign war operations, as it is called. I am also not comfortable with the reason for the war in the light of international law. The alternative is not to calm down and look at what happened in Kosovo. But the answer cannot be war. The experience of Bosnia cannot justify this war. It would have been interesting to see the reason for the war up against today’s situation – what was actually achieved. After the war it was said that the basis for peace had been laid. Yes, it remains to be seen. NATO won the war, but after that most of it has been lost, said Andreas Hompland in Dagbladet in connection with the one-year day after the first bomb broke. Much has become worse than before. This is why NATO countries have a heavy responsibility for reconstruction. I am pleased that the Government is conscious of its responsibility, and we all know that there is an even greater need for money and more measures. I was in southern Hungary during the war, not far from the border with Yugoslavia. There lived Hungarians, Serbs, Croats and Germans around each other, and everyone was against the war. Unless otherwise, it gave hope of living in peaceful coexistence in the Balkans as well. That is why it is so important to support any process of democracy and any democratic movement. Norway thus has a very strong and heavy responsibility, as we were in that war.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e299	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2677]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e312	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e319	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Odd Holten on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First, there is a vote on the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and then, alternatively, between the vote and the proposal of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says: «The Council notes that the Ministry of Transport of St.prp. [[1991-1992]] No 90 did not provide any comprehensive information to the Storting regarding uncertainties about matters relevant to the assessment of the viability of the Gardermoban.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e346	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Christian Party, and from the Right, says: ‘1. A review commission is appointed to carry out a wide-ranging review of the investigation, planning, design and development of the new main aerodrome of East and Gardermobanen. The Commission shall examine, below, the decision-making processes, responsibilities, organisation of work, financial estimates, cost management, quality procedures, information flows and environmental considerations. The Commission shall review all aspects of the case, including the relationship with the Defence. The purpose of the review is to provide the actual information which may be relevant to the assessment of the breach of the Liability Act, including whether the government’s disclosure obligations towards the Storting have been fulfilled. The investigation commission starts work from 1988, when the department provided St.prp. [[1986-1987]] [[1987-1988]] No 55 and additional proposal No 43 on the location of new Main Airport in the East. If necessary for the information of the case, the sample may go back further in time. In order to clarify the situation, the Commission shall carry out the studies it deems necessary and shall consult/interview the persons with whom it is justified to provide relevant information. The Commission shall deliver its report/investigation to the Stortinget by 31 January 2001.2. The Government is asked to use its existing legislation to exempt existing and former officials from the obligation of professional secrecy of the Commission. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Government requests that the material available to the public authorities from other ongoing or completed studies be made available to the Commission.4. The Government requests that all public archives and any other material relevant to the investigation be made available to the Commission. The availability of relevant information shall be limited only in relation to the Government's strictly internal working documents as well as material/information which must be considered as subject to confidentiality on the basis of the absolutely necessary data protection conditions.5. The Commission itself adopts the secretarial assistance and engages in the expertise it deems necessary.6. The Presidency of the Grand Duchy is called upon to promote the setting up of the Commission of Inquiry.7. The Presidency of the Grand Duchy shall be empowered to provide remuneration for the members of the Commission.8. The State budget for 2000 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.41Disbursement21 Special operating expenditure, Audit Commission, granted by..................... 4000000’» [[new]] The centre party and the left have announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e415	Case No. 2 has no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e434	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's Proposal No 1, by Mr Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for further reconstruction appropriations for the countries of south-east Europe, limited up to 1 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04-2.ana.ud2028e455	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government is asked to oppose the relief of international sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as long as it prevents Kosovo Albanians living in Norway from returning to Kosovo.’
