ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e37	The representative John Dale, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The requested alternate of the State of Telemark, Vivian Knarvik Bugge, is requested to be exempted from meeting with the representative of Brother Yngve Rahm's leave on 12 and 13 December due to illness. On the proposal of the President, a unanimous decision was taken. 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternate for the Telemark County, Jens Arnfinn Brödsjømoen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e60	Two permit applications are available: by Hilde Frafjord Johnson on leave of absence on 11 and 12 December to attend the Conference on Parliamentary Global Action in Rome. from the representative Hans J. Røsjorde on leave from 12 December to 15 December to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Ankara. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representatives of the goods, for the province of Hordaland Terje Søviknes and for the province of Olaf Gedrem, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.3. Terje Søviknes is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Hans J. Røsjorde.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e94	Olaf Gedrem is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e102	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. No objections have been raised to this proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e116	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after each post, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Mr Røsjorde has asked to speak on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e125	It is possible that there has been a little poor communication, but the committee has suggested that case no. 1 is dealt with separately, and that case No. 2 comes in with speaking time constraints.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e130	There are speaking time limits for case No. 1 that the president has now referred to, which went out in 5 minutes to each group. - And it's adopted. Let's start with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e135	I was perhaps a little quick in the trigger instead. It's a good thing to react quickly, but in this case probably something premature, easily encouraged by my neighbor on the back benches, who also became hyperactive at the same event. – But we’ll probably hear about that a little bit more. On behalf of the Defence Committee, I am tabling amendments to the State Budget for 2000 under the Ministry of Defence. The regrouping approach is unanimous and based on a proposal to amend the appropriations by a reduction of 328 597 million. kr on the expenditure frame and a reduction of 225 523 million. kr on the income frame. I would like to add that some items have been slightly changed in the past as a result of communication between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence, and as usual I would like to keep a button on the Ministry of Defence's interpretation of what has been agreed. This is stated in the setting, so I should not elaborate on this. What there is disagreement is linked to a loan – it is a debate that Stortinget has so far had before – as the Ministry of Defence becomes a lender to the Norwegian Museum of Photography Foundation, Preus Fotomuseum. Rightly, this museum is located in Horten, but the minority, the Advance Party and the Right, certainly believe that the defense should not be a bank for museum activities, and there are still these parties standing by. However, what should be said in addition to this is that the Committee considers that when it is stated that planned material investment has become more expensive due to the dollar price and that this has led to the outsourcing of acquisitions, moving funds from the investment chapter 1760 item 45 to other areas does not seem to be a problem in such a situation. Nevertheless, the Committee has found it possible to comply with this, given the dramatic situation in which the budgets of the Air Force do not cover the expenditure necessary to operate as intended. In the current year, flight time production has been reduced from 11 600 scheduled flight hours to 9 500 hours, and it is in order to maintain this far below the minimum level that the Committee has found it necessary to accept the transfer of money from investment to this operation. That means a transfer of 154 million. kr. 25 of these millions will provide a minimum of flight time production, while the rest of the money will be used to refill the fuel stocks, which have also fallen to a level of clear concern. This is the whole basis for the setting – a number of regroupings that it is not easy to follow all the way. That's also what the committee says. We may well be a little concerned about all these movements back and forth that make it relatively incomprehensible to fully understand this, but therefore accept what the Committee previously asked the Ministry for a position related to similar treatment in 1995. Furthermore, it appears that Latvia and Lithuania will be transferred to three vessels each of the phased-out MTBs of the Storm class. So the Committee has a positive view on this. I also think it is important that, as stated in the setting, we clearly indicate that the available funds that are now being taken from the top. 1725, will be transferred to 2001, possibly 2002, depending on the progress of the upgrading process. On this basis, I recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e154	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 1143]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e168	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Right 15 minutes each, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e177	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e184	Hallgeir H. Langeland will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e187	SV showed discipline in the previous case and stopped. In this case, we would like to suggest that at least one person has five lines after contributions from members of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e192	Then we have to clarify this first. After it had been called to the vote for 5 minutes, said
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e197	After various contacts, the President has come to propose that five lines be given following the statements of the Council of State – and is of the opinion adopted. The rest of the debate is also deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e202	On behalf of the Defence Committee, I present budget revenue. S. No 7 for 2000-2001. With a gross framework of NOK 27,506 billion and a net framework of NOK 26,773 billion, this is initially a large and growing budget. However, when entering and breaking down different parts of the budget, removing the budget for the Ombudsman, for civil protection and for maritime preparedness, the framework is nevertheless of such a nature that the content of the framework on the investment side will be less than what could be assumed, but the framework will be improved by strengthening frigate investment of 1057 million. kr. That is what makes the investment budget a plus in the framework, but on the part of the Stortinge, it was provided that this would be added to the normal budgetary framework for defence. So it's going to be a little bit different. In addition, the budget includes a draft budget for international operations of 1 850 million. kr, and in addition to the type of operations 72 mill. kr proposed within the ordinary budgetary framework. It is such that two alternative proposals for the disposal of Framework 8 have been made. The one proposal concerns the Progress Party and the Right alone, and the other proposal is that of the coalition partners and the Government. As far as the budget is concerned, it was initially given a form that did not make it the most stressful budget the Stortinget has dealt with in terms of defence, and it was therefore not much better that the conciliation resulted in a further reduction of 100 million. kr for the Air Force and 5,8 mill. for civil protection. The last one is pretty incomprehensible. The first, subtracted by 100 million. kr for the Air Force, becomes completely incomprehensible in a situation where the Air Force has more than enough problems to operate and could fulfil the assumptions of the Storting. I'll be allowed to come back to this later. However, what is worth noting is the Committee's comments on the security policy situation and they are unanimous throughout. I think it's important to notice that. There is no reason to hide that there is concern about part of what is going on with our neighbor in the east, with unforeseeable, uncertain, and we also see that our neighbor in the east has capacities in the areas you want to show that you have capacity. In the current situation, linked to the development of the European defence and security identity, Norway needs – and the Committee also decides – to take account of its own forces, so-called ‘in-place’ forces, which are purely national in character, while at the same time having to take account of our contribution to the international arena. I particularly want to draw attention to pages 15 and 16, where the Committee is discussing our participation in international forces. It is therefore an overall committee that states that Norway and others who are not EU members must have full access to military and political information leading up to the possible activation of forces.’ In other words, if we are to participate in the EU segment with strengths, we must have access to information in the same way as EU members. Then one has necessarily had to accept the fact that the EU is making its decision in its room, while others who want to contribute are making their decision in their room. But then, if Norway then chooses to participate in a force, the Committee also clearly states that it will have to be in place both in the military management apparatus and in place to obtain the same information as other participants. It is also essential to establish that the Storting should support participation in a future EU-led force. It has to be a prerequisite. And then you also say, ‘The Committee will also stress that when Norway participates in EU-led operations where NATO’s common infrastructure is used, it must be clarified how to meet any transition where so-called Petersberg operations that the EU may lead may engage in a conflict pursuant to Article 5 of NATO with possible loss of forces from non-NATO countries.’ This is also an inevitable rule. For the Progress Party, it is important to stress that our budget, the primary budget, did not receive sufficient support in the consideration of the financial position, but we are building upon a completely necessary increase in the defence framework in order to fill the shortcomings of the assumptions that have occurred and to which the majority has contributed over many years, and it is a recognition that DKK 1.7 billion of the budgets have been lost in relation to what was planned until the year in which we are now. The Progress Party has tried to take care of this, and it has contributed to an increase of 1477 million. kr in our primary draft budget. The main purpose of our proposal has been to strengthen the investment side and to strengthen the so-called sharp end so that the mobilization defence is protected, and thus to approximate the model that Stortinget has set for our defence structure, and that we – and also the Right – have helped to continue, while the majority have thus failed fundamentally along the way. This has led to something which in the budget is very clearly underlined by the entire committee, namely that the stock of stocks, spare parts and fuel stocks over time have been reduced to an absolute minimum. And the Committee points out that in recent years stock-aging has reduced stocks so much that it is largely no longer possible to make off-takes without corresponding reacquisitions. It's pretty strong when an overall committee confirms this. But then it shouldn't be that way, as I believe the majority are comforting themselves, that when we've stockpiled so much, it won't be very dangerous anyway, because then we can adopt a new structure that's much lower, and where stocks will fit exactly, or at least be better adapted. It's going to trick itself pretty emphatically. It can't be that a defense structure has to be determined by how much you've undermined the previous structure, because if you keep thinking about it, you're down to zero in a relatively short time. It must be so – and I have also interpreted the Minister for Defence – that it cannot be cyclical dependence that will lead to what defence we should have. Moreover, there can be no fluctuating economic cycles of spare parts stocks that can affect such a context. So here, the Progress Party has stood firm, and we have felt it is very necessary to achieve just this failure in terms of inventories/reserve parts. And when the committee also says what it's doing, there's a basis for saying that this is a situation you can't live with. And of course, we're going to assume that it's going to be the adopted structure that has to have the necessary stock assumptions, otherwise this is going to be all wrong. The Committee has also had to propose an amendment to the proposals for Roman Numeral Decisions. It was fairly obvious that VIII in the proposition was just a Roman figure in which one had in a way asked the Storting to complete the budget and then to drop the budget back to the ministry, where it was for the ministry to collect money if they thought they needed it – because international operations are probably well underbudgeted. So now the committee has cleared this up, because we believe that this is probably contrary to the rules on appropriations. I get to say that it seems almost as if the Ministry of Finance has pushed the Ministry of Defence on this Roman number, and it is the pleasure of the committee to be able to free the Ministry of Defence from this somewhat clumsy embrace. Therefore, the Committee asks for a return to Stortinget if you have a need for funding, either in a revised or other way. There's a lot of things you could have commented on. The only budget win I know about in this context is Homeland Protection, which gets 20 million. kr from the majority. It's not safe for everyone to enjoy it. I will then allow myself to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e239	Hans J. Røssorde has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e244	This is the last budget, and the last – possibly – defence policy debate before the big issue, that is, the long-term proposition, comes. I'm a little surprised that the head of the committee didn't use this post to give some signals about the future defense. He used to comment on some – in my opinion – details all the time. I would like to ask a question about what is mentioned in Chapter 5 of the Proposition on Defence Policy, where a defence policy settlement is suggested. They have concluded this in Denmark. There they had a so-called defence commission, and there was an agreement between the party groups in the People's Republic of China. They went a long way in committing themselves to being together. In Sweden, they had this ‘Federal Preparation’ and worked together across all party groups. I think that's a plan that would all be served -- the employees would be earned, the defense would be earned and the society would be earned that we had long-term and predictability. That is why I have a question for the chair of the Defence Committee: Do you want to help the Progress Party join in such a possible settlement if it should become relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e255	Yes, it is not new to try on the part of the Workers' Party to take someone out on the ice for a defence policy settlement. Now it is such that in that case there is a settlement that must be made between the lots and that cannot be bound in the Stortinget. But then, in many ways, you have recognised – if you were to go in for this – that it is not possible to trust any of the compromises and goals you set in the Storting. So now a majority for the current four-year period has contributed to saying yes to a defence structure that was known in advance how much money cost. But it's equally certain that you can't achieve the goal you've set yourself. So the question is, can you trust the parties more than the Stortinget? Yes, look there's an open question! I would think that there had to be more reason to trust the responsibility of the parties in the Storting through the big business, so that the Norwegian people could think that when you say something, you know it. The Progress Party has done so during this period. We have helped to provide budgets that, if it had been given a majority, would have supported what the Storting had as its goal. Then it'll be quite special if you say that we don't get it in the Storting, but if the parties agree, then everything goes so much better! I allow myself to be very skeptical about such a proposal, because I actually don't believe that here in Norway you have culture for this. Then you can reconcile this. So if we want to make a comparison, we're going to have the same length. And as far as I understand, we still have to live with minority governments, with the strange results it often gets, where one party grouping after another deviates from its objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e265	Nor has SV intended to offer to join the agreement that Halvorsen is looking for in the first place, to put it this way. It didn't come as a surprise. The tradition trusts the Progress Party on the defence budget. What I'm asking is, is whether the addition that they have with the Right this time is primarily to preserve the national defense, which is now weakening by the fact that a whole road is going out and being a world police force. Is that primarily what uroar Røsjorde and the Progress Party? Or is it simply a general addition that we want to have each year? The second question is related to the EU army and Grundlova § 25. Does not the Progress Party see any issues related to Norway's participation in any EU army? Now we don't know exactly what happened down in Nice, but at least it looks like the race to get a crisis management army goes on, with Norway on the road. SV is actually the only party that adds to the Coast Guard. We take the starting point, among other things: in the relevant matters relating to fishing fleets and raw fish, with which everyone is aware. We also assume that there is an increase in activity in the oil and gas industries in the northern regions. Then it's totally crazy, in our opinion, to weaken the Coast Guard in a real way. My last question to Røsjorde is: Does this down-priority of the Coast Guard from the Progress Party side mean a turn in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e276	This is about a tough course. As far as the Coast Guard is concerned, I just want to say that the Progress Party has supported the construction of a new Coast Guard vessel. We think that the Coast Guard overall, also through the regrouping that has been treated in the past today, comes out very well of it all. What concerns the Progress Party is the national defence, and it is the management of funding for international operations. That is the basis for concern. We have in our draft budget the additions to take back the lost in terms of national defence. In our draft budget, we have also put in place the 72 million. kr which is intended to be used for international operations, because we stand firm on that principle. If you go outside, you get to pay the bill for what the operating cost is. So it's nothing new. But we're trying to be predictable, we're trying to be stable, and we're trying to keep the course that we've taken. The fact that national defence is a solid pillar also in order to participate in international operations, I seem to be raised above any doubt. Without the sufficient basis in national defence, there is also no recruitment basis for international operations, and it should worry more than the Progress Party and me. With regard to the EU army in relation to the Constitution: we have now participated in international operations under the UN in the past and under NATO. I see it as absolutely necessary that the Storting should take the necessary decisions on each occasion. In such a context, the Constitution must also be considered. However, I believe that the concern for the Constitution should not be great, provided that our involvement in the governance mechanisms is as I have pointed out earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e287	The main speaker of the Progress Party is very strongly opposed to the majority here and makes any indication that it is the level of inventory that determines the majority's defence policy line. He also suggested a lack of accountability. We are in a completely new defence and security policy situation, and you can sometimes wonder if the Progress Party has passed by the house. Despite the fact that we are in a new situation, Norway is now numbering. 2 on the list of countries spending the most money on the defence budget. I have to ask if the Progress Party believes that it is the level of inventory that determines how the majority, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left – are not the Left members of the Committee – looking at security and defence policy issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e294	Where the left is at all times, I'm not going to have any opinion about. That's what I'm counting on, that the budget buddies are able to handle. To «strongly against the majority», what I have pointed out is that there seems to be a great deal of satisfaction in the face of a change in defence, because then stocks will be more likely to match the defence structure of which you will see the outlines. I think it's a defensive attitude, because it means accepting to be far below NATO's objectives. One is far below its own objectives of producing flight hours for the current year – 2,000 hours down! So you're not able to deal with your own pilot situation. You're sitting with stocks that have been dropped so much that you have to fill up the last bit with cheap petrol purchased from the Americans. I think this is embarrassing! It certainly does not testify to prediction, and that is what I have pointed out on behalf of the Progress Party. So we've taken responsibility for lifting this up so that objectives and means meet, while Mr. Rise comforts itself that only we get a new defense structure, so fit the stocks, because that's what he indirectly says, and that's what's also in the comment. To this it is just to say that everyone – rightly – should be concerned that stocks have been reduced, that there is little ammunition, etc. But if you decide a new structure, you don't know what this will mean for the different ammunition categories today. Then you have to take it into account when a new structure has to be decided. If you want to continue on this gallery, you – as I said earlier – will once again be able to subdue a new selected structure. This has happened every time since the 1970s. Then you slowly slide down to something that will be a defense so small that there is only room for a professional defense. And that, you say, you don't want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e303	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e306	Today's debate on next year's defence budget will probably be marked by the fact that the Right and the Advance Party do not think it is so good in the Defence – as we have already heard. We all agree that it could be better, and we're probably also essentially agreeing on the causes of some of the problems. The causes of these problems are several, mainly the double imbalance in defence, i.e. imbalance between tasks and resources and between investment and operations. It is also true that one over the last year's budgets has not fully followed up the figures underlying St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98; current long-term message. I would remind you that the Progress Party and the Right have also belonged to the majority in a few budgets in recent years. But this isn't the whole picture. It is also true that the Storting decision on migration and manning reductions has occasionally not been followed up, or has gone too slowly. This entails unnecessary operating costs. An example of this is that the number of employees in the Defence Overcommand has increased, while the Storing has indicated through the processing of the long-term messages that a reduction in the number of employees should be possible. In particular, I would like to refer to St.meld. No 16 for 1992-93, where the objective was to reduce the number of persons employed by 6 140, while one has achieved barely 2 000. Despite that, I would recommend this budget presented and support the changes made by the majority. The total budget for 2001 is 27,225 million. NOK 25,349 million. NOK 2000 The normal defence framework is 25 375 million. kr. Plus $1,850 million. kr to international forces. Within what is called the normal defence framework in the proposition, we also find 1,057 million. kr that have been earmarked for the construction of the frigates. This is indicated in Table 3.1 of the budget proposal. This is the last budget to be drawn up after the current long-term notification, as described in both FS 2000 and NOU No. 20: 2000, A new defense, there is a great need for extensive conversion. There is now a work going on in Defense to look at the proposals that have been made, and during the spring we will be presented with a long-term proposition from the Government. Throughout Europe, there is now a review of the country's defences in the light of change and change. The security policy situation has changed and one adapts its defences accordingly. An important picture of this is the EU's design of a common European security and defence policy by building capacity for military and civil crisis management. For Norway, the major changes in our international commitment have resulted in a strong commitment and participation in international operations. In this year's budget, 1 922 million are set aside. kr for this purpose. This will mainly cover the costs of participation in the SFOR force in Bosnia-Herzegovina until 1 July 2001 and the NATO KFOR force in Kosovo. In the case of KFOR, it is a pleasure to note that the Norwegian defence team has been given the confidence to lead the KFOR headquarters together with Denmark from April to October 2001. This makes of course that the cost of our participation will increase relative to whether we should have only been present with soldiers as before. Norway is a small country in the NATO context, and for us it is important to contribute to the creation of stability and peace on our own continent. We are affected by the war and the conflict in the former Yugoslavia – directly by the fact that we have received a number of refugees from the area, indirectly because as others we cannot be left untouched by the suffering suffered by the population in the area. Although the management of KFOR will impose some additional costs on us, it will also in a rich way supply us with knowledge and experience that the Norwegian defence needs. That is why, this time, we have deviated from our principle – which a unanimous committee rightly pointed out in the form of a note when examining the 2000 budget – that all costs relating to international operations should be consistently financed in addition to the ordinary defence framework. This time we have chosen to support the Government in that 72 million. Of the 1,922 million. to be covered within the normal framework. Seventy-two million. kr is less than 5 pst. of the costs. In addition to our extensive participation in Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are also represented by a smaller number of military observers in the Middle East, East Timor, Sierra Leone, Sinai and the Prevlaka Peninsula in Croatia. Budgeting for international operations is not always as easy. The special thing in 2001 is that, as mentioned earlier, we will have the management of KFOR for six months. This is a new task for our defence, and there was therefore some uncertainty about the size of the budget for this purpose when the budget was written. This has been expressed by the Government through their proposals for Roman Numeral Decision VIII in the budget proposal. In the Committee there was a debate on this proposal for a decision – whether this was contrary to the rules on appropriations. The representative Røsjorde has commented on this in his statement, and I would therefore like to say nothing more about the reason why the committee has made a change to that Roman number. No major changes have been made to the budget in relation to the Government's proposals. It's Air Force, Home Guard, Civil Protection, and Cap. 1760, investments, which have been modified. The funds for the Air Force have been cut by 100 million. kr. We're doing this because at the end of this year it's only transferred 124 million through the regrouping. SEK to the Air Force from material investments – the case we have already dealt with today. In addition, in the new ageing proposal, it is proposed to grant additional 123 million. kr. This improves the situation where air defence has come into play after fuel prices have increased. These additional appropriations allow them to refill the fuel stocks by purchasing cheap fuels from the United States, which they have stored on Norwegian soil. Civil protection, which is subject to the Ministry of Justice, lies below our limits. In the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, it was decided to cut the allocation for civil protection investments by 5.8 million. kr. This may seem to be a dramatic decrease in relation to last year, but the truth is that in 2000 they received an extra large allocation for the item Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance. For 2001, something was cut and this will result in a postponement of new acquisitions that are not seen as dramatic. We have also chosen to take something from Chapter 1760, new acquisitions of materials and new buildings and new installations. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, agreed that Home Protection needs more to practice the departments that haven't practiced in the last few years. We therefore agreed to take 20 million. kr from investments and transfer to the Home Office. We have not specified which investments are to be made; we leave that to the ministry. It's clear that we, like everyone who's concerned that we have a defense that's good enough, would want us to have a lot more money, especially for investments. It's enough to mention new fighter planes, that our transport planes are old, that it's only been a few years since we negotiated the purchase of new ones, and that it's also a desire for new MTBs. In addition, we know that there is a need to prioritize what is called ‘the pointed end’ of the defense. The last one will have plenty of opportunity to join in the spring. Then, hopefully, we will take the decisions that are necessary to get a defence that is in future more adapted to the security policy situation, a defence that can be run more rationally, and a defence where we have the opportunity to make the necessary investments for the future. It's not like the representative Røsjorde is trying to say, that we're adapting the defense to the stock we have. On the other hand, we will adapt Defence to the security policy situation around us. And since I have a little bit more time, I will comment on the proposal from the SV that has been posted in the places. I would recommend that the Members of the Labour Party vote against this proposal. The region of Eastern Europe has been adopted by the Stortinget, which has started to work on it. There is no reason to stop this after considering the long-term proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e355	Of course, it is not unnatural that the representative Fossli defends the budgetary agreement entered into. Something else would have been interesting. What I can imagine asking is related to the development of the Air Force. So the government had now submitted in advance a budget that would hardly, in isolation, have tolerated a reduction of 100 million. kr. Then we've seen that through some leverage on the current year's budget, it's been added Air Force money. Also, the new aging, to which the representative Fossli referred, seems to contain a sum of money for the Air Force. So when we look at the measure of the air hours produced for the current year, it was over 11,500 hours. And now you've had to intervene in other chapters' wallets, so to say, to fund the operation of the Air Force to a level that only gives you 9 500 hours. This makes it increasingly difficult to achieve an approved status for our pilots, and the fewer flying hours you get, the fewer pilots will reach the necessary status to respond to our obligations. Then the question about the representative Fossli seems to be completely unproblematic to cut the funds of the Air Force by 100 million. kr. Does the representative Fossli think that the Air Force now has a satisfactory budget? So you've filled up your mind, but you're going in the air knowing that refilling will hardly be possible in the budget that's coming. Did this compare with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and the Left give a bad taste?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e366	I would have been very worried about the Air Force if they had not received the notice they have now received at the end of 2000. We also see the problems that lie there both in relation to this with flight hours for the pilots we have, and also in relation to this that we have an overproduction of pilots, which has come up recently. There was an interview with the Inspector General of the Air Force in VG this weekend – I think – where he said he wasn't so worried, because if you make the changes that seem to be needed in relation to the number of employees, you could produce more flight hours and get a profit for the operation of the planes. So if the representative from the Progress Party joins in the reorganization to which you put up – see the outlines of at least – from next year, this will probably improve. Now it's like we have enough fuel to fly, the stocks are filled up. With the additional appropriations we now received at the end of the year, I am not as worried as I would otherwise have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e375	Of course, I am sorry that the Workers' Party will not support the SV's proposal on Regionfeld Austland and the issue was linked to the long-term message that came in ours. That's how SV thinks, and that's what the multiples in this room should have thought: first, what kind of a defense should have, and then develops a concept and the areas of practice in relation to it. The first question concerns this EU army. There's something special about this. The Swedes, who are members of the EU, say quite clearly from the outset that they should participate in something like this, there should be a UN mandate at the bottom. The Finns say that they will give priority to action on their own land. The EU member Denmark will not join the EU army, while the State Council of Godal and Jagland are so busy to join the EU's images that they report on 3,500 men and a lot of heavy equipment, with very few limitations. After all, the representative Fossli was also present when Solana, EU Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke in the EU, and he was asked very specific questions about who is in charge of this EU army. And there was no doubt about that answer, it is the 15 EU countries that decide when it applies to the EU army, not others. And then the question is, is there a safe basis in relation to the Constitution when Norway cares about so many people and so much equipment? The second question is related to Coast Guard. SV is therefore the only party that sees the need to prioritize coastguard functions, not least from the predatory fisheries that have been involved, the oil and gas work that goes north, and the ‘Cursk’ uluk. Should it not also be an incentive for the other parties? Why doesn't this priority come from the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e384	Now I got the same question that Røsjorde got about the EU army. As regards the relationship with the Constitution, I have seen through statements that this is not considered a problem. They've been evaluated. It is clear that if we are asked to provide forces in an EU army, it will be the Storting that decides it, together with the Government, on a case-by-case basis, and it is Norway itself through government and through the treatment of the Storting that decides whether to participate with forces in any EU army if necessary. But we, a unanimous committee, have also said that priority should be given to the UN and NATO. As far as the Coast Guard is concerned, they have received the same allocation they received last year. We see clearly that they will have new tasks when the Schengen Agreement comes into force, but as it stands, it looks as if they are going to do so, and there have not been any major concerns expressed by the Coast Guard regarding the budget available here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e392	I react a little to the term ‘overproduction of pilots’ that the representative Fossli just used. It's a fact that, in relation to standards that it's natural to compare with, we're far lower when it's the number of pilots compared to the planes that we have, and it's pretty far until we get to a level that's on line with NATO's requirements, and that's on line with the level of countries it's natural to compare with. So I thought it would be misleading when the representative uses such expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e397	I've been through almost three to four years in a committee with the representative Ingvald Godal that we see the world with slightly different eyes, and that we interpret things a little differently, but the representative Godal must have also followed in the debate and read in the newspapers that at the moment we have trained a little too many hunter pilots compared to that we did not decide to buy new planes. Because it takes three to four years to train fighter pilots, we get newly-trained pilots to Norway that there will be no room in the current air defence. Then we have to find a place for these pilots until they are needed, and that problem will hopefully solve within not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e402	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e405	It is positive that we do not have a deep disagreement about defence policy in Norway, as the debate reflects by the fact that we have to sort of look at the differences between the parties. We are now going to adopt the defence budget for 2001, while waiting for the Government's long-term proposal, and we are therefore not going to make too much changes in next year's budget. But, of course, it has been an objective to avoid investments that will not be needed in the new structure of defence. We're in the middle of two millennia, and that could be the basis for some reflections. As we enter the third millennium, we are in a security policy situation with a significantly lower threat level than just 10 to 15 years ago. We've put behind us what historian Eric Hobsbawm calls the age of extremism, where he has calculated that about 102 million people have been killed in the last hundred years. National socialism and communism are ideologies that have shaped this century and that have left scary traces behind. There can be no doubt that the emergence of these ideologies has helped to shape our security policy thinking. Now, when the defense is facing one of the greatest changes in our history, it's not least because the threat picture has changed significantly. These ideologies cannot be regarded as dead and powerless, but they no longer have a strong uproar. At the beginning of the third millennium, we can conclude that the danger of confrontation and armed conflict – at least in accordance with the pattern of the Cold War – is virtually eliminated, in the foreseeable future. There were many who for some years considered Vladimir Shirinovskij and his ultranationalist party in Russia to be a potential threat if the party were to gain more power and influence in Russian politics. I think we can now consider that danger to be over because Shirinovskij has lost most of its uproar and influence. But of course, one cannot ignore the fact that the political situation in Russia is unstable, and that the Russians can become more concerned with their nuclear impact now that it has become obvious to the world that Russia has problems with its conventional defence. But the threat picture is still completely different. There is also reason to mention that since the Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe in 1975, there has been a long continuous process of disarmament and disarmament control, which has produced very significant results in the reduction of nuclear weapons and conventional weapons. Since 1989, the number of nuclear weapons in the European NATO countries has been reduced by 90 p.m. and since the CFE agreement on reductions in the conventional forces in Europe was signed in 1990, nearly 60,000 tanks, artillery units and combat aircraft have been confirmed. Much remains to be done in the follow-up to the agreements, both in the field of conventional weapons and nuclear weapons, but we need to be able to conclude that Norway has gained greater security. Therefore, Norwegian defence and security policy is now facing major challenges. The need for an invasion defence has been greatly reduced and the need to deal with international crises has increased. We're therefore in the process of re-prioritizing resources, but we're going to get back to that in the context of this spring's big debate on the long-term proposition. There may be grounds for recalling Norway’s international position regarding the prioritisation of defence. I have noticed that the Honourable Member of the Defence Committee speaks in his comments of a ‘strong deterioration’ and a ‘cracked defence’, having regard to the fact that Norway has reduced its defence appropriations as a share of the national product from 3.1 pst. in 1990 to 2.2 pst. in 1999 – a decrease of about 30 pst. From this point of view, there may be grounds for looking at the figures for defence appropriations as reproduced by The International Institute for Strategic Studies in the publication ‘The Military Balance 2000-2001’, published by Oxford University Press. This study shows that only the United States spent more money for defence purposes per year. is similar to Norway in 1999. In the United States, it was spent $1,036 per month. The population, while Norway spent $712 per year. the population. By comparison, I'm going to show that France spent $640 and the United Kingdom $628. Germany's down to $379 a.m. the population and Belgium at approximately the same level. Once Belgium has reduced its defence appropriations from 3 pst. of gross domestic product in 1985 to 1,5 pst. In 1999, this is an expression of a trend among NATO countries. The United States has had more than one half over the same period, while Norway has moved from 3.1 pst. of GDP in 1985 to 2.2 pst. in 1999. There is therefore no drama in the fact that there has been a certain percentage decrease in defence appropriations in Norway. However, given the strong increase in GDP in Norway, it gives a more accurate picture of how much is being used per year. The population, and Norway is therefore the number one. 2 of all countries in the world. It must be problematic to maximise the situation on the basis of these figures. The Christian People's Party, like the majority, would argue that the defence's total appropriations are at a high level, and constitute a relatively large proportion of the government's expenditure in Norway, despite a slight decline in investment compared to previous plans. This is offset by the fact that appropriations for international operations have increased significantly during the same period. The Christian People's Party believes, like the majority, that the lack of resources is not the whole problem in relation to the ambition of the long-term message. Although the recommended structure has met the estimated needs, it would nevertheless have become too expensive to maintain the operation. Substantial conversion is therefore necessary. It is very important that we carry out a thorough process when we review the Government's proposal in the long-term proposition relating to the Defence Study 2000 and the suspension of the Defence Policy sample. I expect that considerable time will go to hearings and inspections at departments threatened by closure, and there could be a number of painful processes. We will have limited resources for defence purposes in the future, and it will be absolutely necessary to look critically at the total use of the resources at our disposal. It goes without saying that we cannot keep the administrative structure, which has been adopted for a completely different security policy situation, and we can therefore assume that the removal of 4000-6000 jobs that are suggested can be implemented. Now I'm not going to advance any of this debate, but I think we can already establish that we also need a thorough assessment of the level and our planned capacity to participate in international operations. The need to participate in such operations has increased, and it is important that we consider the UN and the UN Security Council to have overall responsibility for such operations. The Christian People's Party agrees that Norway should continue to contribute significantly to international peace operations under the auspices of NATO, the United Nations, the OSCE or the EU, but it is a prerequisite that we should not enter into such operations without having them incorporated into international law. It asked questions about our commitment to the Kosovo crisis. However, it is gratifying to note that the situation in the Balkans is now more marked by peace than by war. It shows that it was right to engage. Now that Serbia's population can go to elections on 23 December with opposition leader Zoran Djindjic as joint prime minister candidate for the 18 opposition parties, it is the result of NATO's intervention. And from the Norwegian side, we have also contributed to supporting the opposition to Slobodan Milosevic. It is gratifying to see Serbia now approaching a democratic government, based on human rights, which can link it closer to European institutions and to the political and economic community in Europe. With regard to the proposal from the representative of Langeland, I would like to say that the centre will support that proposal. We strongly disagree with what the majority adopted, and we think it would have been wise to discuss the structure first and then, if necessary, adopt the field of fire since then. It must appear as a paradox to the majority that on 8 December, a few days ago, Stortinget received St.meld. No 15th This is the case, among other things. on how to take care of forest fins, which were granted national minority status here in Stortingen just before the majority decided to build the Eastern Region. And it says, among other things, in this message: ‘In recent years, a set has been revitalising the culture of finding. There are now several regional and local organisations working on forest Finnish culture and there are organised networks of cross-border contacts. The Networking Organisation ForestFinnish Interests in Norway shall act as a spokesperson to the Governing Authorities.’.» But now the majority have decided to destroy what is the cultural basis of this national minority, and it will be exciting to see how the majority will treat St.meld. No 15 in relation to the forest fins.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e448	I'm not going to go into the shooting field issue, which is decided here in Stortingen once and for all. Then you have to agree or disagree on this. But I would rather go into what was a main element at the beginning of the article for Mr. Rise. He says there's not much disagreement about the defence budgets. It is, in my view, a truth with certain modifications. If Mr. Looking at the position of adopted structures, this is clearly expressed through the budgets. So that's how Mr. The party of giants, whether in opposition or in position, deviates from the goals they have set themselves, while the party of progress has followed up this, which I have pointed out in the past. When we then, together with the Right, have chosen to promote another proposal for the distribution of a far too narrow a framework, there is no need at least to take income because it is the level of the Right and the Advance Party that wants to lie on. It is simply about the distribution of the poverty created by the budgetary agreement, and the distribution of poverty is not an obvious affair, but it may help to indicate certain road choices when the need is high. Sir. Risks pointed out that Norway was relatively well placed when looking at defence expenditures per year. head. There's a lot of ways to think about it in this context. But I would like to stress that when he uses Belgium as the starting point for comparisons, Belgium is lying improperly different from the world geographically and has neighbours other than Norway. But that may not concern you, Mr President. Rise. He also says correctly that it is difficult to predict developments in Russia. Then I want to ask him the following question: Is he satisfied with the collection of power that has now taken place, and is going on, on Putin's hands, and how does he interpret this? And is the representative satisfied with his own cut in civil protection when DSB has had a lot to do in relation to natural disasters?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e459	When I first concluded that there is a broad consensus on defence policy, I actually meant, and we see it from the figures as well, because we are talking about the Progress Party going to increase by about SEK 1.5 billion in relation to the overall framework of approx. 27 billion dollars, and the right has an increase of about 800 million. I think kr. It is clear that you can rely on what you disagree about, but I still think there is reason to say that there is a broad defence policy consensus in this Chamber. When we go to what we disagree about, the representative Røsjord did not get away that Norway is the country in the world that spends the most money on the defense per. is based on the United States of America. He can't find a single country that spends more money, and I think it tells a lot. In the case of Belgium, and their halving of their share of gross domestic product in defence appropriations, it is also necessary to take into account the fact that attacks on one NATO country are on everyone. So the geographic location shouldn't mean that much. With regard to the specific questions about Putin, I do not consider myself an expert on the internal political conditions in the Kremlin, but of course I do not regard the power structures in Russia as being, as something ideal. But we can see that most experts consider the threat from Russia to be significantly less today than it has been in very many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e470	The reduction in the rights of the Defense of 30 pst. taken in relation to gross domestic product from 1990 to 1999 is derived from the Defence Policy Selection. And now, when we look at the double imbalance and all the problems that it has caused in the defense, and that there is a broad deal about in this house, at least about the presentation of the situation, I think there is a clear indication that the reduction in the vows has been far too great over the 1990s. Otherwise, I thought it would be pointless to compare by. the capital between Norway and a post-trade country in Europe such as Belgium, which is located there and which has no sea area to take care of. It'll be completely meaningless. What we need to see is what kind of defense we have in relation to the tasks for which the defense is to be used. When you look at other countries, I thought it would be interesting to see that there is now a trend across Europe to increase the number of people who believe in them. I heard a talk here on the day of the Dutch Minister of Foreign Affairs, describing the tasks that the Dutch defence will have to deal with in the future, and that this will mean that they will have to increase the rights of defence in the Netherlands. I thought it was interesting to right that here took a starting point on the problems, and then leased out one of the economic consequences of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e479	I did not see any specific question from the representative Godal. But I agree that there is now an imbalance between resources and the tasks the defense has. We've also said that in our remarks, and that's something that everyone recognizes, that it's now a situation with a certain imbalance. That does not mean that we necessarily have to agree that we need to increase the budgets just as the representative Godal proposes. We are now meeting the proposition to come in February, and I expect that there will be a more balanced situation in defence when we get the new structures in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e486	This deal with which the Christian People's Party operates, I rely on the members of the Committee and not on the members of the Stortinget. But Rise can make it clear. From the SV side, I'm going to say that we cut approx. Three billion dollars in the defence budget, mainly on the investment front, just to wait for the long-term message to discuss what kind of concept we should have, and then look at what investment needs to be made after that concept. Another thing that separates us is going to environmental and resource management, i.e. Coast Guard. There is SV the only party that sees the need for additional supervision. with the resources of the northern regions. And I want to challenge the Christian People's Party precisely on this issue, too often – or not often, but at least a few times – then the center is in the environmental policy. Is this one of the things that the Christian People's Party can say to have had to negotiate away in the negotiations with the Labour Party, or is it simply not prioritized from the Christian People's Party's side? The last question is related to what I have been in for several times, the EU army. The Labour Party is very clear when they comment on the EU army, that there is only a continuation of the central government's policy in this area. What defence minister Godal and foreign minister Igland stands for when it comes to the EU army is, therefore, a continuation of the work that the Christian People's Party and the Central Government started while they were in position. I would like to challenge Lars Rise whether this is the reality, and on what relationship the Christian People's Party has with the EU army.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e498	I guess it's true that I didn't think of SV when I talked about a broad consensus, but 3 billion kroner in cuts are not all the world either, although I have to say that we strongly disagree with the cuts that SV has proposed. After all, we have an agreed structure and plans to follow up. And that's what we've been trying to do the best we can. As far as the Coast Guard is concerned, the entire Committee stresses that the presence of the Coast Guard is necessary and important, and we stress the importance of the Coast Guard function. We also say that we look forward to getting KV «Svalbard» into the coastal fleet in 2002 and assume that the construction goes according to the plans both in time and in economic terms. We agree that the Coast Guard has an important function to perform. When it comes to the last question from the representative of Langeland, I have to confess that I did not hear it completely. I sat and talked to Gudmund Restad and realized that there was something he said about the EU, but I didn't hear what it was – I'm sorry! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e510	I had a conversation with a Danish social democrat here the other day explaining what the Danish defence policy agreement is all about. It's as simple as every four years Danish people discuss what kind of defense they need, and what this will cost. When they arrive at the annual budgets, they automatically and without debate. Quite simply because the defence is to a very special extent dependent on predictability, said the Danish. We have a discussion every four years, make decisions – and that is it. In Norway, we have also known four years of revisions of the long-term defence plans, but the Labour Party has never followed up its own long-term economical position once in the 1990s. The centre party did so once, in 1998, when the Bondevik government depended on support from the Right and the Advance Party and got the choice between standing on its own long-term message or going off. Then all of a sudden it wasn't that hard anyway! If the Labour Party and/or Centre had stood at its own stand in the long-term message, we would also have a defence policy settlement here in the country. As you know, our defense is now out in a very serious mess, characterized by the so-called double imbalance. This will continue and only get worse as long as the named parts are not able to hold a fixed line. There was a strangely bad signal in that way by the government and the centre party after first signaling to the head of defence that he should spend 25 billion kroner in its FS 2000, so in the first budget after it was presented, to lay down 1.3 billion dollars below this. All experience now suggests that even the totally insatiable structure of war in FS 2000 and FPU everything is torpedoed. Long-term planning has been lost as long as the bulk of the population is unable to follow up the plans that they themselves have agreed to. It's just tossing blues at people's eyes. Last autumn, for example, in the budget position last year. The Labour Party and the Centre Party, in their comments: ‘The majority assume that the financial framework for the programme period is being implemented through adjusted appropriations for the financial years 2001 and 2002.’.» So now we've got their budget proposal for 2001, and they're just adjusted, but down, they're susar. Where's the trust? In the current long-term planning, one that is known to be based on a more or less arbitrary budgetary level. We're going to get a so-called resource-based defense, not a task-based defense, it's called. Some people think, after all, that this is something new and brilliant. But it's new in all respects. This approach was also used in the 1930s and led straight into the greatest accident that has engulfed the Norwegian people since their black days. One defined away the risk that our position in strategic geography meant, oh, what kind of defense one could get – first for $70 million. $50-40 million. NOK 30 million and finally 30 million. kr. We all know where it was. The approach is equally useless today. Of course, the only safe way to go is to start with the problems. Our position in strategic geography, our international obligations and the defence crisis and peace-time tasks are otherwise. The dominant factor in the assessment of Norway's security policy situation is, of course, still our position in geography, today characterised by the close proximity of an unstable force force's most sensitive area militaryly. If a small conflict, without regard to the world's origin, escalates and gets an east-west dimension, the Norwegian territory will immediately come into focus. This can happen very quickly and unexpectedly, as experience shows that major changes usually occur. Developments in Russia are therefore fundamental to Norway. This is now a serious cause for concern. First of all, we see that the sad Russian tradition of massacring small neighbors is continuing. In my lifetime, this has happened to the Finns, the Baltars, the Poles, the Czechs, the Hungarians, the Afghans and now for the third time the Chechens. With their behaviour in the south, the Russians have just created the problems they claim to be fighting, namely anarchy, terrorism and Muslim fundamentalism. It is an indispensable fact that during the period 1994-1996 and since last fall the Russians in Chechnya have committed the worst genocide that the world has seen since Rwanda and Pol Pot. In other areas, too, there is the wrong road. As an election observer, I have been able to follow the developments for democracy in Russia quite closely. Early in the 1990s, for example, media unlikely free and independent. In the 1996 presidential election campaign, however, it broke, and since then it has gone down rapidly. Similarly, we look at a number of other areas relating to democratic fundamental presidencies in Russia. In this context, there is nothing to help the Russians make the experience that they can do anything without their reaction in the West. Tonal circles in the west bend for Moscow something like the Muslims bend towards Mecca, whatever it should be. Against this background, and given the careless attachment of the Russians to using power when they find it too good, it is absolutely necessary to devote sufficient military capacity to neighbouring Norway. In addition to this, it is clear that as other sea areas become empty, the pressure to drop into Norwegian controlled areas will only increase, where the responsibility for large oil and gas deposits will also require its own. In addition, the international tasks come. All in all, this means that Norway has to have a defence that meets certain requirements for both quality and quantity before all arms divisions. Aporopo's quantity, in FS 2000, it is concluded with an army of a little over a brigade. Again, the historical bells ring. Also in the 1930s they concluded with the small but good and high-mobile army. One might get the impression that these mini-hards should be so high that they can be everywhere at the same time. Mobility becomes a diversionary smoke carpet for an entirely unacceptable quantity. Trying to trick people into believing in the emperor's new dress is, as you know, no new phenomenon. When it comes to the principal aspects of the budget, I will also take the funding of the frigates. When the Storting in our house decided to go to this huge new acquisition, it was agreed that half of the cost would be financed as an addition to the ordinary defence budget. The reason was, of course, that this was necessary in order for this new acquisition not to go unacceptably beyond other important parts of the Defense. Six months later, however, the government comes with a budget proposal that says that the entire frigate cost is within the ordinary framework. And the centermates applaud. So those of us who took this premise seriously, they're smart. We and the Norwegian people can only conclude that a big decision is nothing to trust. If a local government had behaved accordingly, of course, the county would immediately have seen a stop to the madness. The corresponding liability for international operations. One consequence of this is that it becomes much harder to go in for such operations when we really don't know what it's going to go out on. The rationalisation of the peace organisation, as is well known, has been far too slow in the 1990s. Here, the defence itself, the alternate governments, but also the majority of the population share responsibility. The handling of "Poseidon" here in the house last spring was an example of horror in that way. The defense simply no longer tolerates repetitions of that kind. In the light of experience, especially in the context of the Kosovo crisis, the Stortinget has in a very different way in recent times than before focused attention on the operational status of the Defence. This is a very important scale of quality. The result is, in part, very discouraging, and the Right will help to focus on this at the time it comes. The main line of the right for next year's budget was to strengthen the budget by approx. 1 billion and to make a powerful re-priority from the Defense so-called "blue" to the "spice" end in addition to this. There is now absolutely a need for a tough priority of primary tasks: full-time first-time service, prescribed annual home security exercises, enough flying hours for all pilots, so that they comply with NATO's requirements, and enough sailing days for the Navy. Adequate ammunition must be provided for proper shooting training, and the emergency storage must be filled. After our primary proposal has been defeated, we, together with the Progress Party, have held up the proposal for a hard priority of the pointed end, as the committee's leader has already done well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e560	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e563	In the alternative state budget, the defence framework is well above what is likely to be adopted today. This has also been the case in previous budgetary proceedings. These are priorities that I fully respect. However, there is reason to believe that the appropriations for the defence will be at the same level as they are today, even in the years to come. And there is therefore a need for a change in the defence in order for the defence to be able to solve the problems they are going to, within the limits that it is realistic to expect the defense to get. My question to the Right is this: Will the Right participate in a constructive debate on how to get the best possible defence within the defence framework that can realistically be expected when the long-term proposition comes to consideration in spring 2001? Or does the Right want to go on a line where it adds up to plans and a structure that requires appropriations far beyond today's level?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e572	Right will of course go in for the defense that we think the country needs. We'll pay for that, and we'll fight hard to get multiples for that. We had long hoped that the Workers' Party could join us, but if they don't – it doesn't seem to be going – we hope in the Center Party, that they can see that a country with our position in geography and with the great tasks that we have otherwise must have a far better defense than it is right for today. The structure resulting from FS2000 is completely useless. If we do not get an impact on this, we will, in the alternative, go in for the second best. In this context, we want to put a lot of emphasis on being conservative, so that about, for example, The Labour Party, as we were at the moment, had stood by its own long-term message, they would have automatically received Right's subsidiary support, so that we had a defence policy settlement in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e579	The representative Ingvald Godal addressed a strong, sweeping criticism of the centre parties that we have not followed up the resource assumptions in the current long-term plan. He indicated that only once in the time of the Bondevik government, i.e. in the 1998 budget, the conditions were met. And that's right. I sat as Minister of Finance at the time, and can confirm that we did. When it was not possible to follow up this either in the 1999 budget or in the 2000 budget, it was due to the fact that we were within a period of time with the need to avoid overheating the economy, and that there was a dramatic increase in defence expenditure on international operations – from well under DKK 1 billion in the 1998 budget to double, nearly DKK 2 billion in the 1999 budget, and to well over DKK 2 billion in the 2000 budget. I am aware that the Storting has previously assumed that appropriations for international operations should be added to the ordinary defence framework. But in that case, these increased costs of international operations had to go at the expense of other areas, where it was also not easy to find ways of tightening up. Does Godal not see that, in such a situation, the defence must also take some of the burden of having so much expenditure on international operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e588	It is precisely the flexibility that Restad calls for, which is notoriously leading to the full undermining of long-term plans. One must be as stubborn as the Danish: if a decision has a long-term plan, then one must base it on the annual budgets and complete it! This also applies to international operations. If we don't stand firm on a decision, it will happen again and again that we set a long-term plan, and then every time there are hundreds of good arguments that right now we have to do something other than stand by him. And then we are in the same hammock that we are today. It'll happen again after we've dealt with the long-term proposition in February, if there's not a fundamental change in the hold of a multiple here in this house. Otherwise, I just have to say that when it was in force in 1998, I was very happy about what happened, but it was extremely difficult to get it done. There were 25 000 strong arguments that just this year it was completely impossible to stand on the long-term message, which was then three months old. But then we made it clear that if they didn't, they got to go. And then, all of a sudden, it wasn't that hard anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e595	I mentioned earlier that I agree with the representative of Ingvald Godal when it came to the imbalance in the defence. But I've wondered a little about the use of language in the comments from the Right, where it's talking about 'a shaken defense'. He refers to the 30 pst reduction. in the share of gross domestic product that goes to the Defence. I have to ask: when the United States has reduced its share of GDP from 6.5 pst. in 1985 to 3.1 pst. in 1999, i.e. a decrease of between 50 pst. And 60 pst, why then dramatize a decrease of 30 pst.? We also see that Germany has approx. 50 pst. low, Belgium approx. 50 pst. Does the representative of Ingvald Godal think that there is an even stronger shaken defense in our NATO allies than in ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e602	I thought such a comparison of percentages is completely useless, because, as I said before, when it's for the United States, it's like they often go down quite quickly for a few years, but then they go up quickly. After that year's Rise, the United States has a plus separation on the Defense. They look very close to the problems, and they go for a task, they go for the means. That's the way it is. So until it's done with a rock-driving defense. What should a call it then, when we look at the operational status, when we see that the pilots do not get enough hours to maintain the qualification they need to move into a real operation? They are far below what the NATO Chief demands for them to be able to participate in a NATO operation. We can also think about the aspects of security. When the pilots get too few hours, it immediately goes beyond flight safety. We can look at the Army. We can look at parts of the Navy. One might call it what it wants, but I think it's chess-run – shaken in relation to the paintings Stortinget himself decided for the Norwegian defense as late as June 1998.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e615	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e619	The 2001 defence budget reaffirms the so-called double imbalance in defence, the imbalance between tasks and resources, and the imbalance between operation and investment. It is unrealistic to believe that this problem can be solved without a new defence structure and a comprehensive change of defence. That's what's going to happen. Last summer, the Chief of Defense presented his Defence Study 2000, and the Defence Policy Committee presented its position A new defence. The Ministry of Defence is now working on a long-term proposition, which is promised to be sent to the Stortinget in mid-February 2001. The proposal expects a new defence concept and a new defence structure adapted to the security policy situation. It must be based on the new threat picture following the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the fall of the Berlin Wall. The concrete proposals are supposed to be adapted to the expected realistic defence framework. The long-term proposal and the proposals that are being put forward will certainly lead to a major debate. We already note a strong commitment based on the proposals of the Defence Study 2000 and NOU 2000:20, the suspension of the Defence Policy Selection. We receive daily letters and enquiries from all over the country. That debate, however, is the first time in the spring. Today we have to focus on budgetary issues and, in particular, the defence budget for 2001. Since the mid-1990s, the total annual appropriations for defence have increased nominally by nearly DKK 4 billion or by 17-18 pst. However, the wage and price growth has been even higher, well over 20 pst. during the same period. In particular, we have had relatively high wage growth in the last three years. The real value of the defence appropriations has therefore decreased significantly during that period. Traditionally, the defence appropriations have been distributed with barely 2/3 for operation and a 1/3 for investment and a small part for Norwegian forces abroad. An increasing proportion now goes to operation and correspondingly less to investment. In addition, the allocation of international operations has increased sharply in recent years due to the situation in the Balkans. If we start from the 1995 budget and compare it with the 2000 budget, we will see that: the proportion of operation increased from 61 to 64 pst. the investment interest has been reduced from 36 to 28 pst. expenditure on international operations has increased from 3 to 8 pst. of the defence appropriations For the 2001 budget, the distribution will be nearly the same as for the current year. It is common to measure the appropriations made by a country to the Defence in relation to gross domestic product. Measured in this way, the appropriations allocated to Defence in Norway fell in the 1990s and are now at the lower end of 2 pst. GDP. This must be seen, however, in the context of the long-standing high economic cycle of very strong growth in gross domestic product in the 1990s. In order to prevent overheating of the Norwegian economy, significant cuts in government budgets have been required in the last half of the 1990s. Thus, appropriations for many purposes — not just for defence — have fallen as a share of GDP. Compared to other NATO countries in Europe, Norway is almost on average in defence appropriations if GDP is taken into account. Norway’s limiting factor is not money, but labour. That's why it's more obvious to measure the defence appropriations in relation to the population, i.e. the number of defence crowns per capita or per capita. the population. In such a comparison, Norway appears to be very favourable. No European NATO country spends more money per year. is based on the Defence than Norway. We spend well over $700 a year – or between $6,000 and $7,000 per annum. based on Defense. For comparison, France and England are spending $600 and Denmark is spending $500 per. the population. Turkey, which spends almost twice as much as Norway measured as a share of GDP, only spends about $150 per year. It's only one-fifth of our level. For the next year – in the 2001 budget – the defence will receive a total of 27 125 million. kr. In this amount, including SEK 1,057 million. kr for partial financing of the frigate project and SEK 1 922 million. kr to international operations. The total defence budget for 2001 will be nominally close to 500 million. kr higher than for the current year. But corrected for the growth in prices and wages, the value of the allocation is reduced by a similar amount. The normal defence framework is in the proposition stated to be increased by 1,2 pst. from 2000 to 2001. In reality, however, it will be significantly reduced because it has to be taken into account that 1 057 million have been committed for 2001. kr for partial financing of frigate purchases. This is equivalent to 1,000 million. 1998 krone, provided by the Stortinget, shall be added to the normal defence framework each year for the period 2001-2006. In addition to the ordinary defence framework, the appropriations for international operations shall also be provided. This appropriation is intended to cover Chapter. 1792 – next year is 1 922 million. kr. Seventy-two million. kr is covered within the defence framework. The formula is contrary to the previous assumption of the Storting. However, the majority of the committee believes that this can be defended, because next year we'll have an additional cost, probably 300 million. NOK, to the Norwegian management of KFOR 5. There is also considerable uncertainty about the cost of international operations, budgeted for 2001 at 227 million. kr less than for the current year. It was therefore proposed in the proposal for a Roman Numeral Decision that would empower the Government to redeploy appropriations within the defence budget. This could, in the Committee's view, be contrary to the rules on appropriations. To this end, the Committee has reworded the Decision in such a way that any budgetary corrections under Chapters are made. 1792 must be presented to the Stortinge in the usual way. It's Roman number X in the committee's recommendation. It's been spent in recent years about $2 billion, or 7-8 pst. of the defence budget for international operations. The Norwegian contribution to such operations is broadly compared to the contributions from all other countries if the population is used for comparison. Of course, with our dependence on the assistance of our allies in a given situation, we must be willing to contribute significantly to international operations. Nevertheless, we need to think about whether our comprehensive strength contribution could be at the expense of the primary task of the Defence Agency: to protect Norwegian territory and Norwegian interests. So it's not the actual participation in international operations that I'm allowing myself to ask a little question about, but the extent of the participation. Norway has recently notified its contribution to the planned EU strength. On page 16 of the vote, the Committee has made some assumptions about Norwegian participation in EU operations. The Committee shall, inter alia, underline: that such participation cannot take place without the Government having so decided following consultations with the Storting. Any Norwegian participation in EU operations means that Norwegian forces are put at the disposal of an organisation of which Norway is not a member. Thus, questions may be asked as to whether this could be contrary to the Constitution § 25. I assume that this question – if it is not already done – is thoroughly addressed. The result should be submitted to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner. In the budget agreement of 18 November between the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, there is agreement to reduce the appropriations under the heading. 1733 Air Force with 100 million. kr. With the problems the Air Force already has, among others. due to high fuel prices, this could appear problematic. However, a total of 247 million are added to the Air Force. kr on the current year’s budget – 124 million. NOK in the regrouping proposal and SEK 123 million. kr in the new aging period. The amount shall be used for the purchase of fuel. Thus, at the turn of the year, the stock of fuel will be so good that it can be defended to reduce next year's allocation by the agreed 100 million. kr. Within a rather tight defence budget, the majority of the committee has wanted to strengthen the cap. 1734 Heimevertet with 20 million. kr, against a corresponding reduction on cap. 1760, heading 45. The amount is assumed to be used for the exercises of the HV departments that have received little or no practice in the last two or three years. The centre party opposed the establishment of the Regionfelt Eastland when the matter was being dealt with in the Stortinget. We still believe that a different solution should be found, for example. renting of a nearby shooting range in Sweden. It is not unlikely that the costs of expanding the field can be doubled by what has so far been taken into account. It should also give the fans of the shooting and the practice field concerns. In any case, investment should be postponed until the announced long-term proposal is presented and the new defence structure is defined by the Spring Size. I register that Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of SV has announced a proposal in line with this. The centre party will therefore vote in favour of the announced proposal. I see that the time has gone a little faster than I had foreseen, and that is why I will only mention until the end that I am the case rapporteur for, among other things. cap. 451 Civil protection, which is sorted under the Ministry of Justice. In that budget agreement of 18 November, it agreed to cut the appropriations for this chapter by 5.8 million. kr. This has been followed up in the Budget indent. S. No 7th@item: inlistbox In view of the reduction in the appropriations, the Committee's comments include: the need for some traditional measures to be shifted and the need for earlier bindings, such as: the scope of crew exercises, where necessary, must be deviable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e682	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e685	The representative Restad is also one of those who is constantly using the formulations that go on that one is hiding behind the new defence structure in order not to give money to the Defense. I think it's a strange formulation and a good excuse for not getting involved in what's absolutely necessary, and one must also ask: Where does Restad's relationship to our defense become? And where does it get from our relationship to having training to do what we're going to do? The representative of Restad is also referring to what the representative of Ingvald Godal was in place, constantly comparing the percentages, the population, etc. I don't think it's interesting. In order to have predictability and to ensure that politicians, and not least the defence itself, have something to do with, a so-called long-term message is made every four years, as we know. We're also going to live by that. The long-term message that now applies was also adopted with the voices of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. But none of these parties have lived up to the message in retrospect. This year, according to the adopted communication, we would have had an increase in the budget. That's not what we've got. Then I have to ask the representative, Restad: does he feel comfortable in adopting a budget that does not allow for new acquisitions, not for newly trained pilots, not enough fuel – and that is not just the air defence – not enough ammunition, reduced duty of protection, etc.? And if not, what will he do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e694	No, I'm not hiding behind prospects for a new defence structure when I'm in a majority for next year's budget. But I'm trying to look at what's realistically possible within a tight total state budget. As I mentioned in a reply to Ingvald Godal instead – I don't know if Width listened to it – the explanation is that in the time of the Bondevik government, we couldn't follow up the resource requirements of the long-term message, that the cost of international operations increased dramatically from 1999 onwards. We had, as I mentioned in that reply, expenses of well under NOK 1 billion for international operations in 1998 – a year in which we followed up the resource requirements in the long-term message. However, when more than one doubling is achieved — more than DKK 1 billion in increased expenditure on international operations — in 1999 and further increase until 2000, it will not be easy within a budget that requires rigour in order not to overheat the economy, just to grant this extra and ignore these appropriations in relation to the rest of the defence budget. The appropriations must be taken from somewhere, and I didn't think at the time and still don't think it was unreasonable for the defence to contribute anything to the greatly increased costs of international operations. If the defense were not to contribute, there had to be other areas. Was it health, education, research? Or what was it then? The police, as I know the Progress Party is concerned about, were they the ones who would make it with less? It was not possible to increase the overall budget framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e701	Of course, SV is pleased that the centre party is bringing up the proposal for SV when it applies to Regionfeld Austland. It's positive. Then I want to challenge former State Council Restad on the EU military strategy. The Labour Party says, at least in its rhetoric, that they only follow up the policy of the central government in this area, that is to say, putting forces at the disposal of an EU army. I would like to hear from a previous representative of the Bondevik administration that it is correct. So I heard that Restad also has the same objections that I have been listening to when it relates to the Constitution, that this has to be clarified. I have just sent a question from Garde to the Minister for Foreign Affairs with a background in this to get a clarification for Stortinget. I am very doubtful and actually believe that it is contrary to the Constitution, as I believe it. That's why this has to come out in the public light. So finally, the central party has a positive turn, so far as I can evaluate it, when it comes to the question of the UN, the question of NATO. I understand it so that one now in opposition to the new NATO concept doesn't go as far as SV, but almost as far, and I think it's positive. The last question is therefore addressed to the UN mandate issue. Does the Central Party, as the Christian People's Party stated in its statement, believe that a commitment for all participation of Norwegian forces is that there should be a mandate of international law, i.e. a UN mandate for participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e712	The first question to Langeland concerned the EU army. It is clear that for me as an EU opponent and as a representative of a party that is strongly opposed to EU membership, it is not just to think that we should be able to put forces at the disposal of an EU army. We would rather prefer NATO to take care of our security, and that it is within the concept of Norway that it should be primarily involved. In fact, the Committee has made a number of assumptions in its opinion if it would be appropriate for Norway to participate in an EU-led operation. It was also the chairman of the committee within his main post. I underline that, and it says to read in the setting. In particular, I refer to what I also said in the post, that participation in EU operations cannot be spoken without the government having taken a concrete decision on this after consultations with the Stortinget. But I share the view of Langeland that it is not entirely certain that such participation will be compatible with the Constitution § 25. I know that the question is said to have been clarified already in connection with the German Brigade. I think it is a good idea to take a new round on that question and make sure that we do not conflict with the Basic Law Section 25 when, in the event, we are to put forces at the disposal of an organisation of which Norway is not a member. I see the time is running fast, President. The second question was about the relationship with UN and NATO operations. There is no doubt that the Central Party, as also the Christian People's Party stated, assumes that international law must be the basis of Norwegian participation. There were some who asked questions about it in the context of the Kosovo operations. It was a difficult decision to participate in the Government, but we were convinced at least at the time that this would be in line with international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e721	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e724	I'll take up the suggestion from SV. The national defence of Norwegian territory shall compromise in favour of contributions to different world police roles. NATO, with its new concept, which was tested in the Balkans, is ready to go to military operations outside its territory. And the EU must create its army, initially as a crisis management force. Norway hangs with and says: Yes, thank you, we want to be in both a NATO army and an EU army. The Norwegian Government is ready with the largest contribution to the EU army. Foreign Norway must therefore take the lead in the EU's major ambitions. There's something very special about this. The Swedes, who are members of the EU, say they want to join, but then it should be a United Nations mandate. The Finns say that they will give priority to efforts on their own land. EU member Denmark will not join the EU army at all. So Godal and Jagland are plagued by a contentious people who say no to participation in the European Union, and yet a Norwegian government tries to report by bringing 3 500 men and a lot of heavy equipment to this army – almost unconditionally. As long as we are not members of the EU, this grip must conflict with the Constitution § 25, which quite clearly states that emerging powers cannot take over the control of Norwegian forces. At the Nice meeting, which ended last night, it is a little more unclear what will happen to the entire EU army that Norway joins. But former Secretary-General of NATO, now the EU’s ‘Minister of Foreign Affairs’, Javier Solana, was quite clear on this at the meeting of the VEU Parliamentary Assembly last week. It is the members of the European Union who are to rule the EU army, said Solana. The Parliamentary Assembly of its members was otherwise very concerned with the democratic deficit that presupposes the EU, not least on the issue of the EU army. The Norwegian government probably does not care about such concerns either, as it reports on forces without having been formally approved in advance of the Stortinget. As former defense chief Fredrik Bull-Hansen pointed out in a chronicle in the evening post yesterday, it has consequences for a small state to have major action ambitions. The organisation and operation of national defences must be re-examined, and if one ceases to be a resource, the effort on its own land will be weakened. SV is not against setting forces for UN-led operations, but we are quite clear not to set forces for NATO and the EU's world police strategy. All participation from the Norwegian side must, in the SV's opinion, be rooted in international law, i.e. approved by the United Nations. When Stortinget today decides to continue with Ole Brumm's defence policy, it is against the will of SV. SV has long wanted one to have a discussion of what a defence concept Norway should have, and then to allow funds for the new concept that was chosen. That's the opposite of what's happening today. All parties continue on the frigate gallery – which is about the world police role. Then there is a large boat that can be used for this. SV will receive sufficient support from the centre to halt the further natural disaster in the construction of a new regional area, which is also linked to the new direction to be taken by the Norwegian defence. The defence that Norway will have in the future shall be formally decided in the debate on the next long-term communication to spring. Today's and previous decisions in this room have long since begun a conversion that is most international and thus weakens the defence of Norwegian soil. It's not just unfortunate, but in my opinion it's also not very democratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e745	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e748	First, about the threat picture. From the left we see it as different from during the cold war – compounded, but not harmless. It's almost so that some of us could become nostalgic and lengthy back to the structured order during the cold war. Now we don't, because communism was defeated by its own economic insecurity and with Western determination. But there is no reason to assume that the world is going to be very peaceful because it was suddenly peaceful – relatively speaking – in 1989. When it comes to defence policy, you always have to think in long lines. The left sees Norway’s international commitments as being twofold. Part one is doing the job outside, as many speakers have been. Part two is to help that, where we have a special regional responsibility, namely in the north, we contribute to defence policy predictability. We must not end up with a defense in the north that consists of frigates, some aircraft and automatic answering machine on land. This means that, when we look into the position developed and taken into account by the head of defence, with a given framework – as a committee of defence policy did – we should not be so concerned as to be world champions in the first type of international operations that, in the end, within this defence framework – which is the one that the head of defence has set up – we end up with no defence in the north. It must be that we must also be able to look critically at the organisation and volume of international efforts in terms of the effort I have not described as a North Action, in order to ensure that, within our overall defence, we discharge our obligations also in the North. I'm not going to draw scares, but I've said from this pulpit before that I've never considered President Putin to be a cabinet maker. That doesn't mean he's a warrior, but that means it'll be ultra-naïve of a country like Norway not to take inwards that we have a power to neighbor – even if it's no longer a superpower. The border has been peaceful, but it has been peaceful for many years, among other things. because we have taken some of our responsibility. I note that Finland still has a serious national defence. I find that Sweden has restructured its defence so much that you can wonder what is left. And Norway can't be in such a situation that we act the same way. I choose to express myself in this way, even though some may then clearly have critical views in relation to the budgetary settlement we have entered into. And I admit with my open eyes that it's very tight in dollars. But it's okay to start the debate on what's important in the future, and it's important to highlight what that debate is going to rest on. I agree with the small turn that has taken place in the budget in terms of strengthening Home Protection, and I would like to say it this way: A Norwegian future country defence will necessarily, no matter how you think to organise it, have a heavy level of protection at home. Then it's a prerequisite that it's trained and set up in such a way that it's serious. Then I would also like to make it clear that it must not be trained according to the Army's current concept of 12 or 9 months of protection – or what it is. It has to be trained, for example. ends in four months, according to Colonel Ole Jakob Hold-principle: leave only in the event of death, otherwise effective work! So one has to make sure that it happens in such a way that one gets a currency for the time invested. One has to make sure that the structure gives something back. I have also noticed that Norwegian reserve officers, who are not without any insight into the defence, have thought that by looking critically at staffs and support functions, more than 6,000 annual works can be removed – as the range of defence policy provided for – even go up to 8 000. I am strongly in favour of getting defence efforts from each invested crown, and with a certain knowledge of public organisations, among others. within the health system, I know how every organisation tends to protect its structure, even if it is no longer in force. I think you have to have a considerable toughness when you look at staffs and support functions, so you make sure that what you get back from the defense becomes fighting ability and a serious opportunity for a defense. The Committee strongly emphasises the need to have a duty of protection. Then we have to ensure – when we get a debate to spring – that we do not end up with a protective duty consisting of a small crowd to go out, and a large crowd that in practice becomes cooks and drivers. It is not a meaningful precautionary concept. Finally, on behalf of the Left, I would like to stress that we support the position put forward on the Eastern Region. I'm not going to elaborate it further, and we're going to vote like that when it comes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e771	It's a pleasure to listen to the Left in free dressage, so to speak, outside government tight buildings. It is also interesting to hear the representative, Mr Dørum, talk about the need for the defence to have a long-term perspective and to be predictable, as well as the clear need to be aware of Norway’s very special role and position geographically. All of this is essentially in line with what the Progress Party has also said. What should also be said is that I understand Dørum your way – and Mr. In this context, Dørum has stated that he is very concerned that Norway is finding a proper balance between national defence and taking on international tasks. In other words, to ensure a national defence capable of substantiating and supporting international engagement. I have also understood the representative, Mr Dørum, that operations in the international context should be further financed. He didn't say that, but I think that's the basis for drawing such a conclusion, and it's nodious. Then my question becomes: why is Left really in a situation where the coalition he belongs to helps to cut down the Air Force budget? Rightly I heard him speak harshly about the Army, but in order to meet the conditions he himself laid down, it is also necessary to have an air defense that is able to sit elsewhere than on the ground, in other words – be up in the air and move there. The question is again: Is the representative Dørum comfortable with the cuts that have taken place over the four-year period, which far from having the long-term and predictability associated with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e778	As for the cuts, I will stick to my late party trap, Bent Røiseland's answer to a similar question. He said, "Can pass!" As far as the other questions are concerned, anyone involved in Norwegian policy will know that I represent the Left. If the representative Røsjorde has not got it with him, I represent the Left in defence policy matters as well. So it was an intellectually clear conclusion that the representative Røsjorde drew when he came to the conclusion that I represented the views of the Left. His description of the balancing is quite correct. I'm not commenting on the budget any more, but I'm going to comment on his relationship with being in government. Had the government Bondevik been sitting, and the representative Røsjorde obviously had nothing against it in his time, it would have to do the total summation of various expectations and promises that the government also has to do. I have to keep acting like I'm going to do a total summation. Then I say, when there are virtually no sacred cows, except for the frigates that we have ordered, one cannot exempt a critical look at international operations when one is largely critical of everything else. I believe that under that judgment a government of Bondevik would have had to live, without me speaking on behalf of others other than myself, but I can try to reason. Under that judgment, I think the Greatness must be, under that judgment, I think the Workers' Party must be, and then it becomes interesting how to balance. Then I'm going to add that if you're tough enough in conversions, you can get far. If you were even so tough as the representative, Willoch, that you bought all the defense equipment without a demand for repurchase, even the Treasury economists would be happy, and we used the oil money right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e787	Environmental and resource management has normally been a central theme for the Left, as it has always been for the SV. As the representative of Dørum is probably aware, there are extensive revelations of how a manager of resources, not least in the northern regions, and thus the need for increased efforts in this area to ensure a proper control and oversight function. In addition, there will be a large increase in the oil and gas industry in the area, one with the Cursk, etc. There are many factors that point to increased efforts by the Coast Guard. My question to Doorum is therefore just linked to this: What causes the Left/Centre Party not to do what SV does, to strengthen the Coast Guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e792	It's because we don't have any other money than those we have. We can't, like SV, do the kind of grip in the investments that the party does. There we have quite a different defence policy position. But I would say that the major test for marine monitoring in the north, yes even regional stability, is when we are discussing the future structure, among other things. on the Orion aeroplanes. I have to say, to say it in trundish, that I'm not very encouraged by the belief that the action radius of Orion planes is increased when they move from Andøya to Bodø and in addition are reduced in number. Then we approach some kind of aircraft readiness on a telephone answering point basis, also in the north. Monitoring sea areas means that the capacity associated with the aeroplanes you have is able to operate in such a way. It's going to be the big principle discussion of what we're going to do. I'm not going to pre-shoot it, but I think it's one of the structural issues it's important to look at. It's actually part of the reasoning I tried to present in my main post, that we need a serious defense in the north, not just frigates that we're going to buy, not just planes that we're going to have a number of, but also balanced on the ground. It is at all an international obligation for Norway to act in this way. We have seen, most recently through the exercise that the Russian North Fleet seems to have been snarling to implement towards our country, the need to actually have the opportunity to do their own military action. I think at all that they're exercises, that they're done, not least the exercise that I'm not forgetting from last summer, when the Russians simulated nuclear bombings, among other things. against targets in Norway, not only can they defecate as a kind of domestic political theatre. For my part, I see it as a reminder that we have a neighbor who sometimes wants to buzz, and then we have to be so strong that someone wants to help us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e802	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e805	Then we arrive at this period's last budget debate, and it is not a minister from the central parties, but again a minister from the Labour Party who is the responsible State Council. First, I have to say that it is good that this budget honestly states that unfortunately we have not been able to meet the objectives we agreed on in the long-term communication for this period. Already on page 24 of the setting it is established that we are 1747 million. kr below the level that the long-term message provided, and I am sorry for that. So it's always the way that the Right Party and the Advance Party have more money than the rest of us to just defend, but as several of us have said many times, there should be a lot of defense, both out and at home, for 26 billion kroner. I'm concerned that we're going to be honest, but I'm also concerned that we're not going to blackpaint reality. It's important especially for those who work in Defense, and it's important for people outside this house. A lot of good work is done in the defense. It's not that everything is chaos and misery, as it can look like out of the papers. Many thousands of guardians are admitted every year, and a majority implement their duty of protection. They train, they train and they learn new things. They gain new experiences on the psychological level and also learn a lot about their body's performance. They're getting new comrades. Many feel that they have meaningful tasks. Some people also think the opposite. Employees – with and without strips, angles and stars – work on their tasks evenly, despite the desire for more money, their frustrations and their uncertainties, hoping that defence will once again become an organisation that will be future-oriented and good at being a worker in which they can be proud, and which they know is designed to meet today's and future security policy situation. I'm optimistic. I believe in the work that is now being done, and I think that together we should be able to add the forward-looking structures that must exist in the reality that we now live in. Last year in this debate I said that I hoped that we would be able to sign the contract for the construction of the new frigates. I am glad that it is now well in port and that the further work is in progress. I am also very pleased that the coastguard ship «Svalbard» is on route. Maritime defence must be very careful with its allocated financial resources in 2001. There's no liberalism here. However, there will be room for good education in many fields and good training in order to become good and navigable guardians and command some sailing. Many would say, however, that there is too much location at berth, and that is not what seafarers are trained to or like best. I have heard a lot about it on my visits around the Maritime Defense Department. The coastguard doesn't get cuts this year, but they don't get big additions either. They have already noticed this year that high oil prices provide expensive fuel. If this high oil price persists, the fuel price will remain high in 2001. The Schengen Agreement will finally enter into force, and it will give the Internal Coast Guard more to do. They plan to increase their patrols there in 2001. The important tasks in the fisheries management are, then, to guard our own dining room at sea. A lot has emerged in recent times about how fishermen act at sea and about our fishing resources. It makes me even more confident that prioritizing the work of the Coast Guard is important and proper. I'm full of admiration for the work they're doing. Fishery inspectors are also officers and co-pilots or wives, and have guards on the bridge in addition to their on-board control tasks in the fishing boats, Norwegian and foreign. I would say that the inspectors have fantastic challenging jobs, both in terms of weather and practical working conditions. But it's challenging, too, at the interpersonal level. They are responsible for ships and crew. They are inspectors on behalf of the interests of the Community. They are officers, and they shall train and train the underprivileged crew for the benefit of the work in all circumstances. Everyone also needs to know where their place is, and what they're going to do in what mission or unforeseen events. I've been so lucky this year to experience their everyday lives in practice. It was one of the most exciting things I've experienced in my life. They want to show off their job, so I encourage more people to be involved in fishing control with the Coast Guard. It's just amazing. I have to be concerned about the current situation on the fishing grounds that the guard is being reduced by a vessel and will have reduced fishing control capacity on the fishing grounds. I believe that today's situation should provide more control and not less in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e826	The defence must now be in one of its greatest crises. It is a crisis that has for ten years been marked by too small appropriations and little predictability, and then in the first row by changing labor party governments, now also well assisted by the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left through the last budgetary agreement. The centre parties had a golden opportunity to correct the Workers' Party's sad contribution to the reduction of Defence during the Bondevik government's period. But it was only with words and promises. The cuts to the defense just continued. The only parties that each budget year proposes to strengthen the defence budget are the Progress Party and the Right. It is known that the profile of the 2001 budget presented differs from that of the long-term notification and that, for the period 1999–2001, EUR 1 747 million has been allocated. kr below the required level. Similarly, we can state that the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties led to a further reduction in the budget related to the operation of the Air Force by 100 million. kr. If at least it was somewhere you shouldn't have cut, it had to be here. The gap between targets and means has thus increased to 1,847 million. kr. When the situation of the defence to the degrees is marked by the so-called imbalance, the reason can be given only one place, namely to the majority of the Stortinge, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. As the rapporteur for the Air Force, I would like to point out that, through the comments of the members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right, the situation of the Air Force is very little satisfactory. The 2000 operating budget was clearly under-budgeted, leading to the accumulation of maintenance work and a lower number of flight hours than would be desirable for a sufficient number of pilots to reach the NATO requirements. The new MLU F16 aeroplanes will require an increased number of flight hours to qualify the required number of pilots. For the Progress Party, and the Right for that matter, it is completely incomprehensible that newly trained pilots with very expensive training behind them should be offered for economic reasons another service or flight environment, where the number of hours available does not provide a basis for adequate qualification. Similarly, it is quite incomprehensible to the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right that the budgetary agreement should reduce by 100 million. kr on cap. 1733, when an addition of the same amount is assumed to be necessary to ensure satisfactory operation and to build up the ammunition stock, which is at a very low level. The government says otherwise correctly on page 15 of the budget proposal: ‘The necessary ammunition for training and training will be kept to an absolute minimum.’ There will be reason to ask the Council of State what is meant by the necessary ammunition. Furthermore, the proposition states that, among other things: reduction of fuel, spare parts, ammunition and training, etc. over time will have a significant impact on the operational capacity of the Defence Departments. I have to say it's a significant responsibility someone here assumes. On this basis, the Progress Party and the Right propose a re-establishment of the proposition’s cape level. 1733, dealing with the Air Force, which represents an increase of 100 million. kr in relation to the budgetary agreement. The members of the Committee are also pleased that work has been undertaken to further develop and modify the top management of the defence and to address this by means of the long-term motion for a resolution in mid-February 2001. I can also refer here to the comments of the three previous budgetary procedures. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right also propose a reduction of this Chapter, 1720, by 75 million. kr for the purpose of strengthening operations in the defence sectors and for the partial acquisition of spare parts, ammunition and fuel.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e850	The defence budget, which Stortinget is dealing with today, can in many ways be said to represent a transitional budget between an old defence that is overly mature for conversion and rethinking, and the new defence we are going to discuss the basis for here in the Chamber about approx. Six months. Of some of the posts here earlier today, you can easily get the impression that what the Storing is doing today is giving oats to a dead horse. In my opinion, the situation is not that bad. We still have a defense that is able to solve the main gravity of its missions both domestically and abroad. But we've probably reached the pain limit for how long we can run with the double imbalance in the Defense. I am therefore convinced that by the summer, after dealing with the announced long-term proposal, we will be able to lay the foundation for a better quality defence, where there is not least a better connection between investment and operation, mission and resources. As has been stressed several times in the debate today, there is a need for long-term thinking and predictability in defence and security policy. This essential requirement continues to exist, and it is not least for us here in the Stortingen to have a significant responsibility to create such predictability in relation to both our allies and our security-policy neighbours. In this context, it must also be noted that there was no wishful thinking when in the spring session the purchase of new fighter aircraft was postponed for more or less 12 hours. But there are also points of light. The frigate project is under way according to Storting's assumptions. Once this project is completed, I think we too will be able to achieve a very modern marine with excellent ships that can perform national tasks and be part of our international obligations. Another happy move is that it now seems that we can quickly get a purchase of used war vehicles of the type Leopard 2. I have registered that a unanimous committee welcomed this project in the setting of the investment proposition in ours, and is satisfied in the budget position that this now seems to be working out. This also means a qualitative improvement both in the national picture and against international operations. As a former member of the Defence Committee and responsible for the HV cases, I think there is reason to rejoice that this chapter has been reinforced by 20 million. NOK, even if this is extra money that has been reallocated from investment. It is clear from the Committee's assumptions that these additional means should be used to ensure further practice in areas and sections where it has not been possible to practice within the previous framework. This is an important point, so when the Defence Committee, led by Hans J. Røsjorde next year, is going to inspect the operations of Homeland Protection, it should be expected that the Committee will see more, better and realistic exercises, not new coffee funnels and office chairs in the district tabs! So next year, oats will be added to the horse, even though the horse might be per. Today more appears to be a big and heavy fjord than a strong and fast Rex Rodney.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e870	The debate on the defence budget and today's debate are in the shadow of the long-term proposal to come in February. The conversion of the defence that will then come up for debate means that major issues of an investment or location nature are not relevant to debate today. I would nevertheless like to state that the Christian People's Party wants a defence that both safeguards the security of our country and participates internationally in order to create peace and security in cooperation primarily with NATO. And when our civil society seems to be becoming increasingly vulnerable, the defence must also be able to participate in different crisis management tasks. But we already see a less-quality, better-quality, more flexible defence. I am pleased that the Committee agrees to uphold the principle of general protection. The obligation of protection is important to underpin the will to defend the population. There has been a need for some curtailed duty for some guardians, and it is important to return to normal convocation procedures and normal service time in 2001. A major erosion of first-time service will weaken both recruitment and the willingness to defend the people. What is built up over the years can easily be hollowed out and thus become less important, and it will be more difficult to see the need for it. The defence needs will be involved and control both the dimensioning and differentiation of service time. The Christian People's Party believes that a well-developed and well-trained shelter is very important. We have shown this by increasing the funds for training the Home Guard forces by 20 million. kr more than the government had entered the budget. A visible defence is of great importance to the will to defend the people. That's why the Christian People's Party wants Homeland to be represented everywhere in our country. That is why I believe that we in the South-West must maintain protection activity in the European Union when the structure of this part of defence is to be laid over the New Year. Otherwise, I would like to mention that the Christian People's Party believes it is important to have an educational system in the Defence that is adapted to the transition from defence to civil work. The weight and degree structure must be adapted to civil higher education. Recent developments show that people no longer train to a profession to stay in the whole of their lives. One re-schools, seeks change in work, and moves more than before. It is important for those who are trained in Defence to be able to appreciate their competence and to have the opportunity to exploit it in a civil profession. Equally important, it may be for the defence to qualify well for its work from the civil labour market. That's why we say in the setting that it's both important and right to adapt the defence education system to the civil education system. Information and communication technologies are becoming increasingly important in different areas of defence. We are concerned that costs and impacts are proportionate and that quality assurance of programmes and systems is continuously ensured. The Christian People's Party does not intend to start a new debate on the Eastern Region today. We have opposed the development of the field and thought that there are good alternative solutions. These costs can quickly be much higher than estimated. The size has had enough of such matters to deal with. In any case, it is likely that many affected persons living outside the field of fire would be able to claim damages, which have not been included in the calculations up to now. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the war disability home at Bæria is now receiving increased support. It is important to keep those who have been in active service in international operations. We need to do our best to get the help they need, and to avoid as much as possible negative repercussions after making an effort for peace and security in other countries. Perhaps we could take advantage of the competence of the personnel associated with the war disability home and military personnel with war experience in view of those, especially minor refugees, who have come to Norway, and have psychological damage after having experienced war and persecution and being refugees. Many of these, especially children and young people, we know we need some kind of help, but we're looking for good ways to help them. Maybe this could be an opportunity. The Christian People's Party is generally concerned with research and development. I think it's important, even in the defense. We are therefore pleased that there are increased R & D funds in the Ministry of Defence's budget, and are somewhat surprised that both the Progress Party and the Right will cut subsidies to the Defence Research Institute. All parties must then be interested in development and research that can give us a modern and optimal defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e901	I would like to make some initial comments on chapters 1710 Joint institutions and state enterprises under the Ministry of Defence and the rescue helicopter service in 1791. The Committee has noted that the Defence Telecom and Data Service may move into new premises at Kolsås. The Committee has also been given the opportunity to carry out an inspection of the new premises in connection with the handling of the Defence Logistics Organisation (FLO) by the Storting, which has registered the proper functioning of the new facilities. The majority of the Committee is satisfied with the commitment of the Defence Research Institute and believes that research efforts in general should be a priority task. It is therefore disappointing to note that the minority, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, do not want such a bet. These parties propose a total cut of 30 million. kr in this area. It is justified that there is a general need to transfer funds to what is called the Defence'sharp end', i.e. The primary activity of the defence, such as education, training and preparedness measures. There is reason to ask what is sharp enough for the Right Party and the Advance Party. The Defence Research Institute’s Office for Protection and Material is currently running over 30 projects, some of which are: low-signature and camouflage, medical protection and treatment, mines and mine countermeasures, surveillance and weapon management, rocket engines, weapons impact study, vulnerability analysis and physical protection, submarines and tactical underwater systems. These are areas which, in my view, are directly related to what is and in the future should be the primary activities of the defence. The air defence budget has been the subject of a good deal of discussion in the media and in the debate here today. Obviously, no one with a light heart has a 100 - million cut. kr within this range. But it has nevertheless been the result of a very good budgetary settlement between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties. When the defence budget first has to be cut by 100 million. in any case, this is an appropriate cut. That's because it's through St.prp. No 11 for 2000–2001, which we have treated today, and through the treatment of the ejaculation, St.prp. No 32 for 2000–2001, adding additional funds to the Air Force this year. These means shall include, inter alia: used to buy fuel from our allies. This purchase will result in stocks being filled up now at the end of the year, and in this way we can enter 2001 with full thoughts. As a result, the need for fuel purchase will be reduced until next year, and in this way the Air Force can operate safely in 2001, despite a cut of 100 million. kr. The comments made by the Committee under Air Defence point out that the work on the centralisation of the mid-level maintenance of F-16 has encountered obstacles to progress due to the lack of funds for investments at the main Bodø airfield station. This investment may just as well wait after the Storting has dealt with the announced long-term proposal for Defence in the spring of 2001, because of the Inst size. S. No 238 for 1999-2000 decided to postpone the fighter aircraft project. The basis for the decision on the centralisation of intermediate maintenance should therefore no longer be present. The Storting said in Innst. S. No 207 for 1998-99 that the new fighter aircraft will be stationed at Ørland Main Aviation Station, while the fighter aircraft currently stationed on Ørland will be relocated to Bodø and Rygge Main Aviation Stations. Thus, the F-16 aircraft of the defense will be collected in two stations. Furthermore, Stortinget has Innst. S. No 244 for 1997–98 said that all intermediate maintenance will be centralised into Bodø in 2000. This implies an investment need of approx. Thirty-eight million. and includes the need for new buildings, structural adaptations and modernisation. Now, when the fighter aircraft project is currently iced up, in my opinion, the prerequisite for these decisions is no longer present. I assume that until the Storting starts up the fighter aircraft project again, today's activity at Ørland Air Station will be maintained, i.e. that there should be no basis for launching new investments other than those for extended maintenance, but that the intermediate maintenance, as at present, is still carried out at the Ørland Aviation Station for the aeroplanes located there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e919	Norway is bordering or possessing the maritime areas of greatest economic and strategic importance for both Russia, the United States and Europe, areas in which European major act constellations meet Russian and American interests, and areas in which the major European economies increasingly draw from their energy supply, whether Norwegian or Russian based, and where our fish stocks give us a role in European food supply. At the same time, the threat picture has changed. Local conflicts in entirely different world corners can no longer be isolated, and Norway must act in such a way that crises are not exported to us – by having a relevant and deterrent defence, and by prioritising full participation in relevant defence alliances. This requires Norwegian defence to focus more on long-term hedges of its own economic values. Our commitment out there must be firm and give us something long-term in relation to our own challenges. The Norwegian state is prosperous, but it may be expensive to be rich if the consumption of the country is governed by ideas and unscrupulous buying of attention, for example. through a profiling, goodwill checkbook diplomacy. Most countries live by the rule: domestic policy is foreign policy. And our checkbook diplomats seem to have forgotten it for Norway. Our main task is to ensure the stability of our areas in a way that does not lead any of our three major adjacent actors to believe that their economic or other interests have not been safeguarded in an acceptable way. And we don't have to reduce our relevance as an ally, so that for others it becomes too heavy to have an alliance commitment with us. Norway's most central economic interests, what we live in briefly, are sea areas which are probably six times Norway's area, with a coastline similar to the distance from Lindesnes to Lisbon. It's the maritime defense's enormous responsibility. In addition, there will be a new task of guarding the Schengen border, with more than 50 pst. of the west coast of Europe is the Norwegian west coast. Then it's not good enough to have a marine defense without any power potential in our inner coastal areas. Coast Guard and Internal Coast Guard are good and good, but the potential for power is very limited. Without a commitment to new MTBs, the weight of the Maritime Defense and our credibility as a sovereignty nation will be questionable. Norway cannot take on the task of monitoring the Schengen border and believe that this can be solved by technical means – it is like putting up a video camera on Oslo S without having to deal with police officers to apprehend the criminals we are discovering. We don't do that in the justice sector, and we shouldn't do that in the defence sector either. I understand the defense chief's dilemma in FS 2000, where the task was to create a resource-adapted alternative. I miss a need-driven study for further development of the defense, and at least we should be able to get one after the conversion Stortinget is going to treat to spring. The government can't keep cutting the defense budget every time Municipality-Norway or Turkey-Norway wants more liberal budgets, as we saw at that time 500 million. Dr disappeared from the defence budget at a budget conference in the autumn, and 100 new million disappeared from the budget agreement. This comes in a situation where the Marine Defense and the Air Force lack fuel to perform the most basic mission, and where costlyly trained pilots that we need do not have enough flight time to be approved. In addition, the promise that international operations will be financed outside the budget is now broken. The defense needs to change, as well as heavy downgrading of installations and operations as significant reinforcements at the pointed end, in order to avoid that we have to fly at the rear of NATO operations. While this requires an obligating majority in spring, the obligation must be at a higher level of investment than can be seen from FS 2000. In 1996 Vaclav Havel wrote a chronicle in the Evening Post entitled "To Defend a Defense". There he says: ‘A move that makes a human being human is the awareness of its own dignity. ... The readiness to defend a democratic state and its values against the use of power, aggression and evil should be nothing more than the natural continuation of any man’s innate will to defend his own dignity against possible threats.» And he says, ‘It is now, with the first opportunity ever to build broad structures to defend the democratic world, that people must demonstrate a serious commitment to defence.’ Such a serious commitment is not demonstrated here today, despite the fact that we have a national wealth far beyond Havel's Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e951	I would like to draw the attention of the President and the Committee to the fact that, according to the distributed documents, we are now discussing the position of the Defence Committee on appropriations for the 2001 Stasbüttett. After hearing the chairman of the committee, and even more so after hearing the representative, Mr. Ingvald Godal, I realize that this is a typographical error, but I was in error hovering for a few seconds. There is no doubt that we are living at a time when defence in Norway, but also defence in many other countries, is experiencing a major crisis and extensive demands for conversion. I would say, it would almost be strange if we were now dealing with an unproblematic defence budget for next year, and so to begin the spring session with a comprehensive discussion about the need for restructuring the same defence. This is related. As I said, I agree with the speakers who have said that what we are dealing with now is in many ways the last of the old defence budgets. Now we're going to try to move into a new time. Here's the main problem: if we don't do anything right now, in just a few years, the defense will still spend 25 billion dollars on paying some and twenty thousand employees in an enormous peace structure, and there won't be one penny to invest in new equipment. And it doesn't help so much to put in any hundred million dollars more or less in relation to this fundamental challenge. That's the very basis, the structure of the defense, there's basically something wrong with it, because we haven't implemented a successful conversion in the past. I want very briefly to take on board what must be the most important, namely today's security policy situation, which is marked by many new challenges and by a more complex risk picture than before. Technological development and the globalisation of the economy make modern societies interwoven, making us more vulnerable. Only one dramatic example: the dependence of Norway and Western Europe on petroleum activities in northern Europe is absolutely fundamental. Without safeguard measures, this activity can be hit by relatively simple means. In a new security policy reality, NATO countries have long recognised that military needs have changed. Countries need to develop more flexible and mobile capacities. All countries in NATO – and not only in NATO, but also in a broad global context – are in the same form of migration. You no longer wait for the enemy to come through the big massive invasion. The Russians probably don't come, and Moscow doesn't think that NATO comes in the form of a massive attack either. This is reflected in defense analyses around the world, and we focus on a new, more complex and more complex threat image. We are also involved in this debate, based both on the 2000 Defence Study and on the position of the Defence Policy Committee. The stork has a piece on the road shot some of this, for example. Step in order to establish the Defence Force for International Operations. The 2001 budget has a framework that essentially increases the Government’s proposal by 279 million. kr, or 1,2 pst. I admit, of course, that for the period we are now about to leave behind, it is a major deviation from the resource assumptions of the current planning period. Nevertheless, we have considerable resources at our disposal. The total defence budget, after today's treatment, will amount to NOK 27.1 billion, which in itself is a record amount. It is true that up to NOK 2 billion for international operations represents this quite strong increase – and I know for a few years through the activities of the Defence Committee what is concealed by the underlying assumptions behind these figures – but at the same time we have to state that we spend over SEK 27 billion for defence purposes, to what all countries in the world perceive as an effort that is life-making, and which, moreover, brings us into focus in terms of our total contributions. And I also show in terms of the overall defence budget, to the representative Rise and others who have been concerned that well is the crisis, and well there are problems, but so miserable are we not compared to all the countries that are natural to compare with. We also owe it to us to take part in a debate where the defence must be fought about scarce resources with other important sectors of society. The government has therefore given priority to making a significant contribution to the NATO-led force in Kosovo. At the time we drew up the draft budget, neither the need for manpower nor all the capacity to support the headquarters was finally clarified. After a very careful review with an overall perspective, the uncertainty about the needs is no longer so great, and there is now more certainty that we can stay within the allocation of the cap. 1792. I have noticed that the committee has amended the Ministry's proposal for Roman Numeral Decisions on international operations. The intention of the original proposal was the same, and I have no problem with the decision in its adjusted form. The Border Guard, His Majesty the King's Guard and the forces to carry out international operations will be prioritised in 2001. Furthermore, it is a priority to maintain the competence and capabilities of a fighting vessel, fighter aircraft and the main forces in North Norway. I would like to say to the representative of Dørum: there are absolutely no plans in the department to step down the land defence in North Norway. I think, on the contrary, that in a new structure, it can get out relatively easily. In addition to the operations of the Coast Guard, the main contribution to supporting civil society is the rescue helicopter service. In this context, I would like to make it clear that the planned stockpiling, which the Defence Committee has discussed in depth, will not govern the future structure of the defence. It is the reality of security and defence policy, in combination with the general economic framework conditions, that underpins the further development of our defence. The structure will therefore not be proposed to be reduced in order to adapt to existing or future levels of inventories. The changes proposed by the Defence Policy Committee and by the Defence Study 2000 involve a slimmer and more effective defence, and if implemented, this will lead to a change in the requirement for emergency stocks and, on important points, also lower. But here we have to take things in the right order. At the end, let me stress that technological progress itself has led to a relatively higher cost of defence material than previously foreseen. Competence requirements for those serving the material have also increased and training costs are rising. In particular, development costs for defence equipment have increased. This problem leads us to strengthen our cooperation with allies about expensive material projects. There has, of course, been some debate on allocations to the Air Force and flight activity for fighter aircraft. I repeat what some speakers from the majority have said, that if we see the 2000 budget and the proposal for 2001 as a whole, the allocation to the Air Force will increase by a net of 147 million. kr. Nevertheless, we must acknowledge that we experience stress, pressure and scarce resources when it comes to air defence and all other weapons. There is an expression of how the 'double imbalances', as many have mentioned, are strikingly reflected in the budgetary situation for next year, and we shall not be putting that under the chair. But that's also the basis for us now to restructure the defence so that we can get the funds for the ‘spice end’, for real competence building, to use expensive material in an appropriate way, and so that the personnel can use their workforce as appropriate. We must state with a broad pen that the economic framework of defence in the 1990s has not been in line with the current objectives of the strength structure. So, as I was talking about, the conversion ambitions are not fulfilled either. The management and support apparatus is not significantly reduced and is clearly oversized in relation to the ‘pointed end’ of the Defence. If we cannot reduce the operating costs of the peace organisation, it is only a matter of time before we no longer have the means to invest in and modernise the structure. In other words, we are facing a change of defence that is not exceptional for Norway, but that many countries are inside or have been through. This applies both to the extent and to the degree of difficulty. This recognition was drawn by the Defence Policy Committee with the participation of all political parties, and the recognition also included the need for exceptional measures, both in terms of appropriations and in relation to the ordinary legislation and instruments. The government will put forward a long-term proposal in mid-February with a clear aim of having it dealt with in the Stortinge in the spring session. The proposition will contain both long-term broad lines of defence development and concrete proposals for decisions. We want to translate overall policy guidelines into action immediately, not after new and long-term investigations that are drawing out on time. I stress that the Storting should have the necessary time to deal with the proposition, while at the same time it is of great importance that the recommendations are anchored in a thorough investigation that is now under way in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e990	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e993	There is no disagreement about the need to change the structure and try to release funds from an oversized management apparatus to the so-called ‘peel end’. There is full support from the Council of State. The question is more about the rate at which such a change is to be made, and without stumbling in that operation. This will be clarified in the document coming to spring, then we will know what political solution is being proposed. It is also not difficult to agree with the Council of State in the actual context, that material costs have increased dramatically, which means that they charge the budget much more heavily than was previously expected, and that the cost of competence increases. All of this is completely visible. What makes me wonder is when the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and to the extent that the Workers' Party through the Council of State has now wanted to compare with other countries and look at expenditure per capita. We have always had a desire for a nationally balanced defence, and the base value of what it costs for a small country necessarily means accepting other costs in order to keep this platform – whether on land, sea or in the air. That's something that brings us into a completely different situation than, for example, Belgium, which you wanted to compare with. So the minister has sent out a lot of patrols today who have driven and investigated this with a defence policy settlement. And then I ask myself, is it that the Council of State is in doubt about the ministry's ability to handle this? Is he in doubt about Storting's ability to handle this? So this is the only way to get a better platform for the defense in the future. And if I'm wrong about the first claim, what is the Council's solution and explanation of this strange phenomenon?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1004	The idea of a defence policy settlement comes not from me, but from a cross-political selection where the Progress Party has also been well represented, as have the other parties in the Chamber. And then the government and I have a duty to go through it in a responsible and proper way. There is a positive experience in Denmark. I have a certain sense in myself that you can hare off something with recordings, so how can you trust parties when the same parties deviate from assumptions in the long-term program? That is not exactly how it is going to happen; in practice, all parties in the Chamber are subject to the laws of the budgetary authority. The budget is discussed year after year. There's a drag fight about prioritizing the purposes. There's nothing negative about it, on the contrary, that's the way it has to be. But if the parties could agree that here we have a purpose raised above others in the sense that long-termity and predictability are needed, and commit to it by means of an agreement that is then copied into the budget position four years at a time, it is a technique that others have favourably used to avoid cuts that may seem somewhat more random. There's nothing but the basis for the decision-making of the Defence Policy Committee, and we have to go through it and discuss it with representatives of the parties, and then we'll see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1011	I can promise the Council of States that the Right should support a strong rationalisation of the peace process. Our only limitation is that we don't want to be involved in measures that damage the war structure that we're going to go in to want. We've been calling for such a rationalization for a very long time, and I hope it comes now. In the defence study 2000, the head of defence has taken a certain financial amount. He has made it clear that it has led to a structure that is not what he wants. But he hasn't said anything about what kind of defense he thinks Norway needs, given our position in strategic geography and international and other tasks. But that's what the Stortinget has to decide on for spring. We have to decide on the defence that the country needs, and the defence that we can defend to the Norwegian people that we are in favour of. My question to the Council of State will then be: When we get the proposition in February, will it serve as a basis for an assessment of the defence that the country needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1020	The answer to that is yes. Of course, it would be completely irresponsible to make a long-term proposition for the Storting that was not based on an analysis of what the Government believes it needs in defence in the future. However, when I do not agree to join the critics of the Chief of Defense, it is because he acted on a mission. And I think he has a fundamentally useful approach when he has gone through an exercise aimed at creating an economic basis for a structure that is at least sustainable in the future, rather than doing the completely reverse that has been done for many years: first comes the head of defense with a study every four years, then comes the long-term program that lays a billion or two under, then the head of defense complains about it – but it's supposed to be a advice – then there comes propositions that pearls on a string, and then most of it runs into the sand and you land on something that's a lot lower. In other words, we have had a consistently underfunded structure. Now you're starting from a level that you can at least expect to get. And then I read between the lines of the defense manager's outline and view so that there's something more money than that -- which he thinks it should be -- of course you can put it into e.g.. to speed up the renewal of the fighting fleet and phase in other capacities. Here, too, there are important differences and differences in the analysis of the Defence Director’s defence study and the suspension of the Defence Policy Selection. Defence policy selections have not had as a limit NOK 25 billion – a sentence – in everything they have done and gone through. So for that reason, they're renewing the MTB fleet that the head of defense doesn't require. For the same reason, they have a brigade more in the structure than the head of defense requires. All these things must now be carefully reviewed by the Ministry with a view to presenting a proposal based both on a safety policy analysis and on economically realistic estimates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1029	I have three questions: the only question is related to what SV has proposed, which goes on at Regionfelt Austland. I would like a brief explanation as to why it is still possible to stay together with the Right and the Advance Party in this matter when, in February, a new long-term proposition is to be put forward. I thought one should say something more than that it is for structurally independent reasons; one must be precise in the wording here. Then there are questions about the reduced activity you will get at the Coast Guard, and the signal it gives when you look at the scandals that are discovered up in the north relative to the juxtaposition, and if the council sees it's natural to come back to that problem in revised terms of an actual reduced activity. For SV, it will be an important signal to be given by the Council of State in relation to the monthly challenges we will face on the environmental and resource monitoring page. So to the question that the Council of State has been waiting for, about the EU army. What is the main reason why Norway took a special position in the Nordic region? That's a big question. One has Finns who invest more nationally, one has Swedes who are very precise on what terms they have, one has Danish people who stand outside the entire military cooperation, and then one has Norwegians who are not in the EU, but who are running for the sole purpose of making strengths available to the EU - in other words, we are not a member of it. What is the primary reason for this? Is there anything in the enemy image, or is there any other reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1038	What the Government has done is to notify the international effort force of up to 3,500 personnel to possible EU-led operations. It is the same force as in UN operations, NATO operations or OSCE operations, if any. So there aren't 3 500 people specifically for the EU just coming and asking us to. It's the same strength travel no matter what we take off. And it's most unlikely that we'll ever find ourselves in a situation where 3,500 are mobilized for any purpose, whether it's the UN, the EU, NATO or the OSCE. It is more likely to assume that it will be about the level we have today, which is 1,200 – 1,500 men and women out there – something variable – and we look at the sum of the Nordic contributions, for example. in the Balkans now, we are not different from our other Nordic neighbours. There is no need to engage Norwegian intervention forces in EU-led operations in which we disagree – this falls on their own unfairness. Of course, the government comes to the bodies of the Storting and discusses this for each action. It takes many years before this is going to materialize itself as something particularly realistic. The most likely thing is, if you're going to take a scenario, that the Americans are getting tired in the Balkans and saying that now the task is so transparent that now the jam gets the EU to take that responsibility. And then it might be natural to invite Norway too in such a context. I think it would be obvious to anyone in this room, even for SV, that we're making that up, just as SV put up during the Kosovo action, right under division and some internal discussions. So I don't think we're going to make this something more mysterious than it is. As for the Coast Guard, we will, of course, as for all arms, follow budgetary developments closely. The signals from the Coast Guard are not particularly disturbing, and the fact that the committee, as far as I can see, has a unanimous attitude indicates that it does not look so bad. The regional field has been adopted. There are no plans in the Government for changes there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1049	I agree with the Minister of Defense that the defense chief's way of attacking the problem at this time is interesting – it's interesting to figure out what one can get for a given amount. But at the same time, I think the head of defence should have provided an assessment of what defence the country needs. When we're going to deal with this in Stortinget, I'd find it almost unlikely whether we should do it without knowing what kind of defense the country's leading professional in the field thinks we need. I want to add it to what the defence minister said, because this is probably one thing that we will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1054	I note that the representative of Ingvald Godal will come back to the matter. It doesn't surprise me in that case. It is a natural part of the defence policy discussion to see tasks and resources in the context. I repeat, of course, we're going to base an assessment of what kind of defense we need in the future, and we're going to base it on our best judgement and the military advice we get. Of course, there are no watertight shots between the head of defense, the Chief of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. That's why we have military expertise, and of course we'll serve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1060	The Council of State rightly addressed the need to streamline the peace structure. I think that was absolutely right. He also asked if you were willing to pay the costs by making a change. The answer to that must be yes. I also noticed with interest that the Council of State confirmed that we would maintain a serious and proper defence in the north. In the extension of that reasoning, and also the former passenger of the Council of State here in the Chamber where he has highlighted the need for monitoring both in the air and at sea, we are approaching what the EU calls a northern dimension, but which also in the Nordic Council leads to the defence ministers speaking – and they often speak through one of their colleagues – and drawing a picture. Would you like to see what is now happening in Sweden and Finland, in terms of contributing to what I would call a regional predictability in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1067	I think I can say yes to that. We have a well-functioning Nordic Minister of Defence cooperation. In part, there has been an untrustworthy past, a bit independent of what has been discussed at the Nordic Council. But one doesn't have to rule out the other. In the governments of the Nordic countries, we are very concerned that we should contribute to the stability of our neighbourhoods. I'll do it with slightly different angles of incidence. The fact that some are in NATO and others are in the EU allows us to have particularly interesting exchanges of views on how we can mutually exploit each other's advantages and opportunities. The fact that we are all also keenly interested in contributing to cooperation across the old dividing lines, which also includes Russia and the Baltic countries, is a serious and positive contribution to what I believe the representative is aiming for. So here we have a major field of future security policy. It is in the intersection of foreign policy and defence policy in a strict sense. But we're all, I think, on a Nordic basis set to participate here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1074	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1079	I'm not going to bring up any debate about the Eastern Region and its establishment, but the post to the representative Lars Rise made me react a little. Using forest fins as one of the reasons for voting in favour of SV’s proposal for a postponement of further development of the region field is a bit special. He referred to St.meld. No 15 for 2000-2001, concerning, inter alia: the forest fins, which have just been submitted. On page 30, it says: ‘The first findings can be found on the Norwegian side of the border around 1600. In the 1620s, a small colony offered finders around the Great Smoke Sea in Grue. [[...]] From there, a belt of Finnish constructions was quickly established along the border, about from Våler and Trysil in the north to Vinger in the south. This area was named Finnskogen. After a while, there were Finnish settlements in more than 40 municipalities in Hedmark, Akershus, Oppland, Østfold and Buskerud.» When looking at the budget proposal, the funds allocated to the Eastern Region of the region are to be used for cultural memory projects, registrations and excavations, land planning, design and investigation, preparation of land acquisitions, purchase of estates and cash substitutes. It must be that if forest Finns have lived in the area, you get to map the culture, and it won't be lost. It is not likely that the establishment of the field will deprive forest fins of their livelihood. Very well known are the forested areas added, difficult to reach by most people as most of the roads up to the area where the field is to be established are bomb roads and locked to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1091	I will not contribute to extending the debate more than is necessary since the Committee agrees to be completed by noon. 3:30, I guess in 15 minutes. But time went a little too fast for me, so I didn't get to get all the points in my main post. I am concerned that, pending the long-term proposal and the Stortinge decision on a new defence concept and a new structure, errors are not being made. I was at the end of my main post in the region field of the East, which I believe it should not be invested next year. I also announced support for the SV's proposals in this regard. In the case of the Eastern Region, I also refer to a note on page 33 of the vote. The Committee calls for the evaluation of a grant from the Defence to the day-to-day operation of the Organisation Affected Interest Organisation – Region Field Eastern, abbreviated BIO-RØ. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right have made a proposal that new blocks on Kolsås should not be implemented in 2001. Because of the budgetary agreement, the Centre Party has not acceded to this proposal and will not vote in favour of it. However, I would ask the Minister of Defence to carefully assess whether scarce investment funds should be used in 2001 for that building on Kolsås. I stress that investments should not be made without being absolutely sure that they will also benefit fully from the new defence structure to be adopted by the Stortinge for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1102	Now the government council in the lucky position is that he can not answer if he gets any questions, but I am now going to ask a question that I did not get with me the previous time. This is the same problem, that is, Norway's special position in relation to the Nordic countries when it comes to the issue of EU army. The one point is to clarify Norwegian terms in relation to the UN mandate, on which the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have been involved as a central issue, and as an envoy, it has been said from that point of view – whether there is also an envoy from the Norwegian side that there should be such a mandate, and that it is undeniable that there should be such a mandate. The second is about a number of things – it is possible that there are people here who are more informed than I am – when it comes to the issue of Constitution and EU army, among others. It was easy for one to think the same way as compared to the German brigade. After reviewing Section 25 and some interpretations, I found it strange that Norway should be able to participate under the conditions – which Solana says at least – in an EU army, namely that it is the EU that decides on the EU army, and that other countries must stick to what the EU means. So the question is simply whether the Council of State sees the problem related to Section 25 of the Constitution when it concerns Norwegian participation in the EU army.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1111	In the context of consultations and review of the budget with the Ministry of the Committee's work, it has been understood that the budgets proposed for the coming years will be comprehensive in order to provide the first-time service with a fully-fledged approach, which is fundamental. Similarly, it also appears clear that the recruitment of staff to start initial service in 2001 will take place within normal time, i.e. not outsourcing, as has been the case for the coal that started this year. I then assume that it is such that the initial service is fully financed and thus cannot be subject to some sort of balancing throughout the year, and hopefully also into 2002 for those who will complete it. Then there's a question related to the building that the representative Restad just mentioned. It is reported that there must already be a contract for the construction of new buildings on Kolsås. The size now gives a start-up grant – at least if the majority get what it wants – while on the part of the Progress Party and the Right, we have thought that this building should be postponed, and it was obvious that Mr. Restad was also a bit concerned about implementing this building, even if it was supported in principle. So my question is simply: is there now a finished contract for the construction of Colzas that is mentioned in the proposition? If the answer is yes, are there any options for disconnection, or have you simply assumed that the Stortinget would say yes to this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1122	I had not really intended to take the floor several times in the debate, but since the representative Fossli commented on my comments on the Eastern Region, I must almost take the opportunity to reply. I did not say at all what the representative Fossli claimed, that taking care of the forest fins' livelihood is our argument to vote in favour of SV's proposal. I have not claimed that forest fins depend on a life base in this area. Very well known, no forest fins live in the area where the region field of the east is to be built. But we're talking about a whole culture, and we're talking about cultural memories. And that's quite right, as the representative Fossli said, that money is now being allocated to map cultural memories. However, it also becomes pointless to map cultural memories and then to build a shooting field, which will greatly reduce public access to these cultural memories, and not least forest fins themselves, which have finally been given the status of a national minority in Norway. We have completely different arguments to vote in favour of SV's proposal. We still believe that it is unnecessary to set up the Eastern Region, because there are other and far more reasonable alternatives, which we have discussed earlier, among other things. renting of nearby shooting areas in Sweden. We also believe that costs should be given much greater weight than the majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, have assumed. With the great savings needs we now see in the defense, this money should have been used in other ways. You shouldn't spend billions on a field that we might not need. I also stress the costs of international operations, which we have to discuss in full until spring – how much of our defence budget will go to international operations – because one of the main arguments for the region of Eastern Europe has just been that this should be used for practice in the context of international operations. In the center we don't ignore that the calculations aren't the final ones, and we say in our notes that we don't ignore that it can actually be about the double. These are the arguments for voting in favour of the SV's proposal, and not what the representative Fossli claimed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1133	SV is very happy that we are now getting a new long-term message, because it has been necessary since we dealt with the previous one, which had expired on the date before it was adopted. What concerns us very much is that we allow these large investment plans, which are correctly adopted, but where they are still not built, roll and walk until we have gone through everything again and seen the new whole, and whether there is urgent need for new measures that have major and devastating environmental consequences, and whether there is economic space for them. It becomes expensive and one may end up with new misinvestments, cf. e.g. investments made to the Air Force at Gardermoen of DKr 1.3 billion. I imagine that an alternative use of such investments might be easier than it is in a possible shooting field in Hedmark. I'm sorry. And I guess if I had gone to the pulpit when we debated whether to establish this measure on the Gardermo, I would have been met with exactly the same arguments as those that are now opposed to investment in the shooting area, that is, that this is imperative, and that we have to do it. It's been shown time and time again that when realism says inwards, and you see how big a bag of money is and what you're going to afford, it's things that have to go out. And then you should at least be able to pull the brake on the things that are still not built. When the council has been traveling around the country talking about the new plans, he has, as he says, sail, met with an open mind and almost blank sheets. But it's probably a little late when it's like projects that have a big disagreement about even internal defence, and where the environmental consequences are great, and which are not even built, have become such a sacred cow that it's impossible to wait with this for the short time it takes until at least this whole plan is in place. As the Storting dealt with the issue of shooting grounds, the large environmental restrictions on the use of the field were imposed on both the area, time use and types of weapons. The question is whether the Council of State in this case has an overview of what the use of the field in the new concept would mean, whether or not he can guarantee the majority that is now saying going on, continuing with this, that it is exactly the same measure that was adopted – whether the new long-term message at all does not have any changes in this field that affect any of the environmental consequences that the Storting said they were very concerned about should be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1144	Hans J. Røssorde has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1147	I was a little worried for a moment, because I thought maybe I had asked a question so unclear and so unexplained that the Council of State did not want to answer it. So I repeat the question here and now: Is there a contract signed on the newly built Kolsås – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1153	I have drawn, but I would like to pick up a little – it must be allowed. I can guarantee that I would have run up if I had the understanding that I was the last one. Let me say that in the case of the contractual conditions relating to the construction of Kolsås, the contract is planned to be concluded in 2001. In other words, according to my information, it is not included. That means, of course, that the approval of the Storting, as it might be available here today, is the starting point for further work. When it comes to the region field, we've discussed it many times. Nothing has happened in relation to the assumptions that the majority suggested, that I can stand here and say something different today than what I said at the time. I'd rather say the opposite, in the sense that the need is at least as great as before. What happens if we live up to the Chief of Defense's defense study? Well, then, the military line-up would have been reduced by maybe 75 pst. within 15 years. Then it's a big point not to get a defense that's weakened by 75 pst. Then we have to cooperate across large areas through new concepts for this type of warfare, as is the premise that we should do both in the Mauken-Blatin in the north and in the Region Field East in the south. The fact that a reduction in quantity is not similarly reduced in quality depends on the fact that we have exercise capacity – not just shooting capacity but exercise capacity – over large areas of the magnitude that we have discussed and adopted in relation to the Eastern Region. Nothing indicates that it is less topical than before, I would say it is more topical than before. So in a situation where the defense is slimming down, we're going to have to fend off the corresponding weakening. In the case of environmental assumptions and other assumptions underlying the decision of the Storting, there is no change here. Nor is there anything to suggest that the financial assumptions are failing, or that we are facing a doubling or what some others here have been faced with. On the contrary, we believe that we are on the verge of progressing the project in all areas. With regard to the questions raised by the representative of Langeland, it is right that the EU has discussed a similar derogation that NATO has and that allowed SV here in the Chamber to support the NATO actions, but in accordance with international law, on which the representative of Restad was involved. But I think it's presumptuously likely that there are actions with the United Nations mandate that are up-to-date. That's the rule in every context. But let's say that if a European power had opposed the United Nations force on East Timor, the murders would still have. Should we be without exception rules in such contexts? I think the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1166	In the centenarian debate, Regionfelt Eastern also became part of the final, and it seems to be here too. Then I had an exchange of words with the chairperson of the Defence Committee, the representative Røsjorde, where he got the last word because I had spent my speaking time. He said it was typical for the Center Party to order all dishes, but refuse to pay for them. The representative Røsjorde is not even right in his claim, because the Central Party has never ordered the right called Regionfelt Eastland. We also do not want to pay for it. We believe that the money we have available in defence policy is well spent in areas other than investing in such a field. The calculations aren't good enough. Hedmark County Municipality has estimated that the price will be twice that of the official figures here in the house, and there is probably also an external review, both of the economy and of the environmental consequences of this project, in our opinion. This should be practised, among others. for international missions, and then I find it sad that you cannot meet – at least in that area – a possible cooperation with Sweden. There has been so much achievement in this case that this should be done at all costs, despite the fact that the announced long-term proposition has not been presented and the new defence structure has not been defined. I also raised this question in the spontaneous question hour with the Minister of Defense, and he then reiterated that we could raise the region field of the East every day in the Stortinget, but that it would not help anything. I also think it is a confirmation that there has been a tremendous achievement in this matter. And I think that here, both economically and not least environmentally, it should be possible to use the mountain sweat rule that says it's no shame to turn around in time. That is why we should at least be able to wait until the long-term proposal comes and the new defence structure is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1177	If you have limited financial resources to meet your needs, you have to look at what you think is most important. And if that's the case, for example. want to strengthen maritime defence and the defence of both our fishing resources, gas and oil resources in addition to what we have today, and have less money available than we have today, you might have to change what you're doing or what you're planning to do. In fact, in such a light, it is possible to believe that the shooting field comes down a bit on the wish list that the defense has. I want to remind you that there are people in Defense who share those points of view. So the council says there's no less need for the field now. On the contrary, the need has increased. But at the same time, the Council of State assures us that the use of the field, which was included in the treatment we had, will not change. It seems rather daring, I think, that the Council of State may think that there is an increased use here, but that it should not be noticed in practice. So there's a question of whether there are any alternatives. According to my concepts, the alternative of cooperation with Sweden has never been tested. There has never been a request from the Norwegian Government to the Swedish Government, with a wish to do so. To put it a little bit clumsy, I think this has happened pretty much so you've called each other, and then you've said, isn't it that when you're not in NATO, and we're in NATO, it doesn't matter that we're using a practice field together. And then you've said, well, that's the way it is -- it's getting too hard. Had this been desired, I think it would have been practicable, without major security and defence policy reversals. But finally, I could also imagine drawing some parallels to the second debate that has been going on here today, on Norway's participation in any EU force. I guess it's also going to practice somewhere for its possible international missions, we're going to get hope. If they're going to fight, they need it. If the Swedes are to be allowed to participate and practice with the others at all, they must either practice in a NATO country, or our forces must be able to practice with Swedish forces in Sweden. In this sense, it is very difficult to understand the great resistance you have in trying to achieve such a solution, which would be better both economically and environmentally.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1188	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1145]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1205	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1154]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e1213	We're ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e2114	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Hans J. Røsjorde, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1 is included in the vote, and proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to postpone further the development of the Austland Region Field until after the treatment of the long-term proposal on Defence.’ Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e2141	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: "Frame area 8
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-11.ana.ud197e5668	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 16 November 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose legislative changes in order to raise the age limit for voluntary recruitment to military service to 18 years’.’
