ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e158	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today and for the remaining meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e163	I propose Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen as presidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e168	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today and the remaining meetings of the current week. The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e173	On behalf of the big business representatives Jørn L. Stang, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to ban the publication of tax lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e178	The representative of Terje Johansen will also make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e181	On behalf of Odd Einar Dørum and myself, I would like to propose to amend the regulation to the Road Traffic Act so that collective fields can only be used by minibuses used in real collective contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e187	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose that the matter on the supplementary agenda be dealt with after case No. 14 on Agenda No 92 – and considers it adopted. Before the cases are brought before the Court, the President will inform you that the referral to the supplementary agenda has not been closed for the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e205	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and the Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e216	First, I would like to thank the Social Committee and the Municipal Committee for their good cooperation on the Equalisation Communication. The treatment of the bullying notification has increased awareness of the value of a fair distribution and an active welfare policy. The main purpose of the notification is to cover the period from 1986 to 1997. There have been a number of positive developments during the period: there is a marked increase in the proportion of those taking higher education, more women are at work, and there is an increasing health situation for the population. The standard of living is clearly better, and there has been a smoothing of living conditions between city and country. According to the Equalisation Communication, average income has actually increased by 13 p.m. and single dependants have a clear improvement in their economic situation. Thus, the vast majority of Norwegians have been given better living conditions, and still differences in Norway are smaller than in most other countries with which we normally compare. At the same time, a small minority of the population have not been involved in this development. There are often chains of problems where the same people have low education, lack of connection to the labour market and thus low income. This is again often associated with poor housing and poor health. I'm glad there's so much consensus in the Committee on Reality and Challenges. It is a good starting point for making the necessary changes. The analyses in the Equalisation Communication are good, and a number of measures were proposed and supported. I am also very pleased that we have a majority of active measures to prevent people from getting poor living conditions. It is good that an overall committee believes it is important to ring the ring of popular security as security for our old age pension and in the case of sickness, unemployment, disability, loss of dependants or maternity leave. There is broad consensus that a stable economy is a prerequisite for a well-developed welfare country. It is also good that it is a unanimous committee that says that it is a goal to have a fair tax policy with low rates for people most, wide tax base, simple rules and the least possible loophole. It is important which positions underpin the decisions we take. I therefore think it is gratifying that the Committee in its introductory remarks has stressed that the individual is responsible for his choices, but that most people can make unfortunate choices through life. Everyone should get a new chance. Nor is it true that all ‘sheep as deserved’. On the contrary, all persons who are innocent may be affected by sickness, unemployment, accidents or otherwise by social or economic misconduct. In Norway, we have developed a social safety net to care for people in a life crisis. It is an overall committee that believes it is very important that we turn around and further develop the social security network. A unanimous committee points to the close link between education, work and income, and therefore it is important to ensure the implementation of the adult training reform. However, there are clear political lines in this position. The budgetary agreement for the current year also agreed to cooperate on the suspension of the equalisation message. As rapporteur-in-Office, I am very pleased that this cooperation has been successful. The majority of the Committee at the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV consider it desirable to have a strong public sector and that there is a need for more than one employee in several parts of the health and care sector. Furthermore, these parties indicate that the Government, in its proposals for revised national budgets, has stated that it will assess up to the 2001 budget changes that will strengthen the distribution profile. But I'm most happy because it's a majority of the Stortinget who are willing to unite on a policy to raise the minority and to prevent poor living conditions. This majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, asks the Government to present an action plan that follows up the Equalisation Communication and its treatment by the Storting during the spring of 2001. This, of course, does not prevent the Government from taking action as quickly as possible. Two of the main challenges are creating an inclusive and human work and a social housing policy that allows people to afford to live. The Committee points out that specific efforts need to be targeted at groups with reduced working capacity. A system of extended pay subsidies to groups with reduced working capacity was proposed in the Equalisation Communication because of variable health problems, such as chronic muscle and skeletal pain and mental disorders. The Committee agreed to this proposal and considers that it should consider making the scheme permanent. The majority place particular emphasis on remuneration for qualifications that is an active measure. This applies to newly arrived immigrants and refugees and to long-term recipients of social assistance. In the context of the communication, we are familiar with several successful projects in which social welfare beneficiaries, as well as disabled and former drug addicts, have come into work through active measures, improved their incomes and improved their quality of life. The number of sick and sick cases is increasing. The same thing makes the number of new unsatisfied ones. In order to ensure the basis for the social security rights we have, we need to turn this development into a more positive trend, where more people are being exploited. There is also a need for labour in several sectors. More attention needs to be paid to active instruments in enterprises. This requires a more flexible use of the schemes, such as: active sick leave, pay and operating grants and support for networking so that more people can work longer. We need a simplification of legislation and better information on financial support schemes. There is also a need for better coordination between the various actors such as the social offices, the social security system, the labour market set, the primary doctor, the occupational health service and the managers of the enterprises. The division of responsibilities in this field should be assessed in greater detail and requirements should be laid down for public authorities and businesses. Living well and safely at a price you can afford is a good welfare policy. Today there is a precarious situation in the housing market, especially in the largest cities with shortages of housing and, in part, sky-high prices. The Committee believes that it is becoming a welfare problem when a large proportion of a generation have problems getting housing at a price that they can pay. The tight market means that those who have major problems are pushed further into line. The Committee has therefore underlined that one helps those who have the most difficulty in the housing market with a general increase in housing construction. It is now very important to invest in the construction of several reasonable and sought rental properties. The majority of the social committee emphasises that it is not acceptable for a large group of people to be homeless. It is important that the municipalities and the state coordinate their efforts to solve the problems in this field. The majority would stress the need for each municipality to have local action plans. The majority want to reduce the use of hospitals because these are poor and very expensive housing services. These parties believe that the host hospital is not suitable as accommodation for families with children and for those with breast-feeding. Work on the Equalisation Communication has also shown that it is important to improve the social security network. Social assistance shall be a temporary scheme, a last safety net. It is therefore, in the Committee's view, for many who currently have social assistance as their only source of living. The Committee has been informed by Norwegian Health and Social Leadership teams that some 8 000 to 10 000 social clients in Oslo could be working on some organisation. Studies referred to in the Equalisation Communication make some large and inexplicable differences in social assistance payments apparent. The majority of the Committee therefore supports the proposal for the introduction of a State indicative standard and believes that it will contribute to a more consistent practice. Drug users, and in particular heavy non-dwelling drug users, are a group with very poor living conditions. A number of measures were proposed to improve the quality of the measures for this group, and these proposals were endorsed by the Committee. The majority of the social committee, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, have wanted a wider range of methadone-assisted treatment. I welcome the clear views of the new Social Minister on this point. The Committee points out that young seriously ill people who are under education or who have not been admitted to work have not been entitled to sickness benefits. In addition to not being entitled to financial benefits in the event of illness, several of them are likely to have high medical and treatment costs. It is evident that many become debt slaves as a result of a serious and long-term illness. The Committee therefore proposes that the Government should submit proposals to the Stortinget which ensure serious economic security for young people. The majority also promote proposals for a growth report on the distribution of living conditions among children and young people in Norway. The background for this is that there are a number of children and young people growing up in families with poor living conditions, but we do not know about this group. I have been asked what it costs to ensure a fairer distribution. My question back is, what does it cost not to take care of the abilities and opportunities that humans have? Social exclusion has a very high price, both for individuals and for society. This is a question that is now being discussed in several European countries. Social democrats discuss whether, under the direction of the European Commission, measuring instruments can be developed that can give a proper picture of the cost of social exclusion. Norway is the country of opportunity. Each individual has an inviolable self-value. We must all have the opportunity to participate in society and evolve. Finally, I would recommend the proposals for decisions in the vote and take up the minority proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e291	The Gunhild Eye has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e294	Today’s distempering message is a very comprehensive document, at least if you look at the thickness of the book available. The anti-sampling message was presented by the government of Bondevik and has been subsequently embraced by the Workers' Party – because that is only how you can interpret the fact that the government of Stoltenberg chose not to withdraw the case. This is also shown when you read the Committee's configuration, where the same parties are united about everything. The message itself is on 275 pages. One would expect it to be full of new information and not least solutions to the various problems we are facing. However, it is a fact that the number of pages is not in line with the proposals for amendments that come to the conclusion. It would have been desirable if the notification could be more concentrated on the individual solutions, but one feels instead that it contains a number of repetitions and of course. One of the issues discussed in detail is the fact that the country’s inhabitants have different incomes. Is there anything wrong with people serving differently and living differently? Or is it simply a fact that such a development is both good and desirable? The progress party does not belong to those who will try to make everyone in this country as equal as possible, but instead we will give the individual the opportunity to cultivate their own abilities and get paid for it. The notification should have addressed to a much greater extent the issue of how to take care of the interests of those falling outside the current welfare system. The Progress Party sees it as a matter of course that everyone should have equal rights and obligations, regardless of ethnic, cultural or social background. That's why it's also important that we don't add up to a system where one gives certain special advantages to some groups. In that case, this will help undermine the confidence of individual citizens in the welfare state. This is precisely what the majority in this Chamber are about to do by introducing a specific introduction grant for newly arrived immigrants and by introducing a specific scheme for short-stay pensioners in Norway. The Progress Party will argue that the interests of these groups have been properly taken care of through today's arrangements, and we will go against both of these proposals. The Party welcomes the fact that the safety network and any welfare measures involving public transfers are not so closely linked to participation in the professional life. But it is quite clear that it is not necessary to add up to a plan in the case of government financial benefits, which undermines the fact that having a job at any time will pay off for those who are able to work. It is claimed that Norwegian citizens will receive the same health and care services in a decentralised healthcare system. However, the Progress Party believes that in a decentralised healthcare system, it will largely be the individual's residence address and wallet that will be crucial to whether or not a good offer is made. It was claimed in the Communication that Norway has a low tax level compared to the countries with which it competes. This suggests that the Government is not sufficiently aware that including the unbelievably high taxes payable by Norwegian citizens in addition to their taxes, Norway is at the top of the world in terms of taxes and taxes and what citizens have to pay. The majority of the committee is very concerned about how to distribute other people's money instead of looking at the inequalities in society, like, among other things. is a health sign within certain areas. Everyone can't be the same, and society's task must be to help those who fall completely outside. The Progress Party is concerned with the best way to make the best use of the abilities of persons with different disabilities. It makes one according to the opinion of the Progress Party, among others. by facilitating the provision of facilities for persons who cannot hold a certificate or who cannot benefit from public means of communication because of their disability, to be able to get to work. This issue has been fully addressed by a number of TV2 headlines about a person who is not receiving financial support for getting to work, even though he has a medical certificate that she cannot use public communications because of her disability. I have been in contact with this person several times in the past on this issue, and on the basis of this, the Progress Party has promoted a proposal for a comment to which the Committee has, fortunately, unanimously agreed. It says the following: ‘Some disabled persons, or persons with special disabilities, are prevented from taking part in the labour market because they cannot have a certificate or use public transport because of disability, and the Committee would stress that it would be better – both economically and humanly – to provide this group with support for transport than to allow them to move on to disability.’ The party expects this comment from a unanimous committee to be sufficient to resolve the problems for this group. However, I have noticed that the representative Karin Andersen, on behalf of SV, has made a proposal which, in the opinion of the Progress Party, should not be necessary. But it would be wrong to vote against something that you agree with, and the Progress Party will therefore vote in favour of this proposal. The eye listed a number of issues in your article. She showed, among other things: to the pressures of the housing market and high prices in central districts, and in particular in the major cities. This is actually something that politicians very easily can do. We can ensure that there are regulated plots that can be developed instead of keeping some boundaries ‘holy’, such as: Oslo with the Marka border. Here are a number of different things that can be done with simple grips in the municipalities, so that there is a possibility of housing. Another thing you're also concerned about, is how we can get people out of work again. Unfortunately, a number of people go for longer on economic social assistance. And it's regrettable that some people actually view the social office as their original payroll office. The Progress Party is of the opinion that if we are to be able to do something about this issue, we need to merge work offices, social security offices and social services into one unit. In this way, we can get people out of the system and out into paid work. Because it is very important that people in this country who can work also get into work. Finally, I would like to make the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e327	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e330	With the anti-aliasing message, the centre parties have fulfilled a promise from the Adultås declaration. They wanted to take the increased differences seriously, reverse developments, call for solidarity values and provide better services and benefits to the weakest, those who have not been given part in the prosperity development most in the country. The Bondevik government would have a strong public responsibility for the welfare system, at the same time as a leader of a policy that supports the family and voluntary organisations. The Christian People's Party believes that an active anti-dithering policy can prevent social conflicts. It was long rejected that we had a 9/10 society, a Difference Norway where the social inequalities have increased. The dithering message shows that this is the case. Maybe it's better to say that we've got an 8/10 community. The figure shows that the average income has increased by 13 pst. from 1986 to 1997. For the fraction of people with the highest income, it increased by a total of 34 pst, while the tenth of the lowest income had only a growth of 5 pst. It is serious when we have followed the wrong course for more than a decade. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Workers' Party will now reverse this development. We agree on most of the proposals in the communication. There is broad agreement on the main strategies and measures for better distribution. It is an objective that most people should participate in the labour market, receive education and training so that they can support themselves through their own work. The Equalisation Communication shows that it is those who are not involved in the labour market who are losing financially. There is a link between labour income and living standards. It is therefore important to put in place measures for those who have problems in their working life. The labour market seat has a great responsibility to organise them. The Christian People’s Party, therefore, supports a 30 - pst grade. may provide a disability pension and facilitate the use of the residual working capacity of a disabled person. We also support wage-subsidies schemes for enterprises that accept disadvantaged jobseekers. These may be women with chronic muscle and skeletal pain and people with mental disorders. Much occurs in the organisation of both study and workplaces for people with disabilities. It opens up the possibility for single dependants to be able to gain professional competence beyond secondary school. Our country needs more nurses and teachers, but we have to make sure that we do not discriminate against students who have married or live in stable living conditions. There is a need to invest in education and training for those who, for various reasons, lack it. Decentralised continuing education has been a success, which must be continued. All statistics show that non-Western immigrants are overrepresented among those with low income. The Christian People's Party believes that an introductory benefit for immigrants, so that they quickly qualify for work, is a good order. In this way they learn Norwegian faster and get social networking. Everyone needs a home in order to have a good life. It is a goal to provide good and reasonable housing. We need to get a more differentiated rental market. Here are the major challenges for the municipalities, not least Oslo. It is important that the lending and grant schemes of the House Bank can be used more widely in major cities and, in particular, in Oslo, where housing prices make it difficult for young people to establish themselves. The housing aid needs to be more targeted, as one adds in the notification. Hospitals for families with children are unsatisfactory and should stop as soon as possible. The Christian People's Party supports measures that can help the 6,200 homeless who we have in our country. Many of these have drug problems or other problems that leave them out of work. Heavy drug users without a regular home, often with mental problems, are a group with poor living conditions. The quality of treatment for drug users needs to be improved. The Nesvåg Committee has now been consulted and provides a good basis for a more comprehensive provision to drug users. The Christian People's Party had expected that at least the Workers' Party had helped to get a majority for our proposal on this very thing. In recent years, responses to drug users have escalated sharply. I am particularly pleased with the low-threshold services that are being tested in 14 municipalities. The Christian People's Party wants indicative norms on social welfare. We see the need for local and individual solutions, even if one has to achieve greater equality between municipalities than it is today. The assistance shall only be in a transitional phase. During the hearing, Norwegian Health and Social Leadership teams said that around 8 000 – 10 000 social clients in Oslo could be working on some organisation. The potential for improvement is great. Patients with long-term care in psychiatric hospitals will now gradually be treated in the same way as patients in somatic wards. Social security benefits are now reduced only if they last more than one year. The amount of the free will also increase. This is a big step in the right direction. The rapporteur has pointed out that it is a ‘welfare hole’ for young seriously ill people who are under education or who have not been admitted to work and who have earned entitlement to sickness benefits. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal which guarantees young people serious ill financial security. I take up the proposals No. 2, 3, and 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and SV. All the parties agree in the committee's comments that the living conditions in the interior of Finnland are poor, but will not participate in a concrete proposal. Proposal No. 3 is the only tax proposal in the vote that should be supported by others. The same applies to the proposal to submit a wholesale notification of an overall offer to drug users. Christian People's Party will support the SV proposal, tabled by Karin Andersen. It is important that when disabled people first get work, they have to be able to get there, as we have also rewritten in a joint remark. Finally, although today we have focused a lot on the negative, it is important to conclude that Norway is a very good country to live in, with good welfare arrangements and high standards of living.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e379	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e382	The message we have for treatment today reminds me of the mountain that bore a mouse. There was a lot of talk about it before it came, there was less talk about it afterwards, and even less about it when the Workers' Party had to go into the substance. Because that's a lot of words. It's "executed word" with great lust! The message correctly describes general social developments, and much of the analytical material is good. But most of it is already known. The government has been content to describe the situation and takes less inward into account the reasons why some fall outside. It doesn't answer either. The message bears the mark of being unfinished. Most of the proposals concern new pilot projects and investigations. The message speaks of differences. I believe that is a derailment of the debate. For the social policy challenge, there are not primarily differences, but poverty. Right is not concerned with rhetoric against Difference Norway, but with targeted policies and concrete measures to reduce poverty. The problem is not that someone has too much, but that some do not have what is necessary. Despite large transfers, the welfare state does not reach those who need it the most. Only a limited part of what is paid into taxes goes to those who need the most help and support. Figures from Sweden show that only 26 pst. the transfers are made to persons in need of assistance and assistance. The remainder is funds that go through an eternal cycle from the middle to the middle class, which have paid taxes and receive transfers. In particular, social support will be provided to families who are unable to live on their own income because of high tax pressures and high taxes. This should not be the case in Norway. For each of the new public support measures aimed at weak groups, we have to ask ourselves: Did individual people intend to help this, perhaps get better if they were able to keep more of their own money through lower taxes and taxes? We must not take responsibility from people who are able to solve their own problems. And now the Prime Minister takes self-criticism on behalf of the Workers' Party in VG June 6. He says that until now they have refused to let many fall outside society, and admits that they have shown casualty. It's a beginning. The working party and the centre parties have cooperated on this communication. The desire to reduce the disparities in society used the central government of the budget before Christmas as an argument to seek cooperation with the Workers' Party. And that was the difference development under the workers' party rule the center parties were supposed to straighten out. To remove any element of logic, the central government referred to the fact that the economic differences had been less marked in the last two years. But it was precisely in these two years of central government that it sought cooperation with the Right and the Progress Party on the budget and economic policy. This does not mean that there is a great deal of coherence in policy. For the Right, the security of individuals is at the heart of welfare policy. Security is primarily our ability and ability to take responsibility and take care of ourselves and our closest friends. Right-wing policy is not about money and materialism, but about how we can develop safe, creative and responsible people who can stand on their own and with their backs and hearts to take care of themselves and show care for others. It is not that public welfare is the most effective. No, it's personal contact, concern and care between people. The efforts of the Workers' Party to counter change and provide us with an increasing number of public security networks and welfare systems have failed altogether in one area: to create safe individuals. Right wants the state to be strong enough to lift the weak, but not so presumptuous that it breaks those who can handle themselves. School and education are the very best welfare we can give our children. Knowledge becomes more and more important in a world where choices flow toward us, and where we depend on being able to distinguish between the important and the unimportant, between what is right and what is wrong. Therefore, we must not lose sight of education policy when discussing welfare and social policy. The fight against the streamlined unit school, which creates losers and no winners, is therefore central to the Right to give each one what they need of knowledge, of attitudes and belief in themselves in reality. Most people live well in today's society. But the very weakest lack sufficient care and treatment. Therefore, a more accurate and targeted social policy is needed to help drug addicts, psychiatric patients without aftercare, homeless, immigrants and refugees with linguistic and cultural problems and those who otherwise fall off the safety net. The most striking distinction goes between those who have work and those who are out of work. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the creation of more jobs combined with measures to facilitate the transfer of more people from passive social security to full or partial work. The main conclusions of the welfare communication must be clear: working shall pay off and the aid schemes intended to be temporary must be designed in such a way as to assist self-help and not help with long-term dependence. The security network shall not capture people and create clients, but shall assist the individual to regain independence. Participation in the labour market will be the most important contribution to self-driving. In order to ensure access to labour in the future, attention needs to be paid to encouraging individuals to stay longer in work. It is necessary to provide for flexible arrangements for part-time work among insured persons in order to ensure that workers do not fall out of work completely because of sickness or disability. The majority asks the Government to consider introducing 30 pst. disability as an entry conditions for unearned pensions as a permanent scheme. The right agrees that it is right to encourage the unemployed to try out in the labour market, but the pilot scheme launched in 1997 which allows the disability pension to be reduced to 20 p.m. and which will last until 2003 needs to be evaluated before new permanent measures are launched. The Government points out in the Communication that the proposal may have a negative impact on the labour supply. It's a timely warning. The proposal of the majority may be counterproductive. Those who are at work and do not meet the 50 pst requirement. disability, getting an easier way out of work. The result is not an inclusive working life, but a working life where the way out is easier and leads to more people becoming disability pensioners. It is strange that the majority, despite the working line on which the Workers' Party and the Right were united in the welfare message, oblige the Government to consider changes that will ease the requirements for disability before the Sandman Committee has given its position, in particular in the light of what the Government writes in the revised budget, where reference is made to the Sandman Committee and therefore it is not ‘current to propose changes to the disability scheme itself’. The majority propose to develop state-guided standards for expenditure on living. This does not support the right. This decision must be based on the funding of social benefits, namely in the municipalities. Social assistance shall be a temporary aid, and as necessary. The right to appeal against decisions taken by the municipality to the county council is established and shall contribute to the prevention of manifestly unfair discrimination between municipalities. To adopt a state-guided norm that is not binding in any way on the municipalities is to throw blues in the eyes of people in a difficult situation of life. And again, the Workers' Party has turned around. When dealing with the welfare message, the Right Party and the Workers' Party agreed on this. Nor does the right support the proposal to consider a system of guaranteed minimum income. Such a scheme would violate the principle that public services should be based on a right or a need. It will help to keep people out of the labour market, because work becomes less a profitable alternative to social benefits. The right will warn against developing social security schemes that contribute to the non-remuneration of ordinary pay for those who have the opportunity to participate in the ordinary labour market. Many have fallen outside the welfare community because of a lack of understanding that people are different. ‘Give all the opportunity to participate!’ It must be the slogan of the debate on the development of Velferds-Norway in the new millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e436	It is difficult to get through the entire case complex to which this Equalizer message goes, in 5 minutes. There's a part that's made a number that there are many sides, but then there's also a material that's essential here. The Equalizer message was given a very tight birth. During the 1996 treaty debate, the then leader of the Centerpartiet, Anne Enger Lahnstein, promoted a proposal that the then Labour Party government should present its own distribution policy to the Stortinget. This would not be the Labour Party, and with the support of the Right Party and the Advance Party it was also rejected. Christian People's Party, SV, Left and RV supported the Center Party at that time. When the central parties came to government in 1997, the government itself was able to submit such a reply. Today, some people focus on how voluminous the message is, and so there's a number that there are many pages. Then it can be replicated that the setting also has quite a number of pages. At least it must be important for all parties to contribute to a consistent, proper and concrete content in the setting, but I believe that there is a lack of will from some teams. The Equalisation Communication had not been provided without the initiative taken in 1996 and without the centre government having had the opportunity to present it last year. It shows the inconvenient fact that differences in Norway have increased from 1986 to 1997. It also obtains up-to-date knowledge on these issues. Without this message, we had not had these knowledge and could have taken this in a proper way. The Equalisation Notice has been continued by the current Labour Party Government, and it is at least gratifying that the Workers' Party is now behind it. This may include: Given the fact that there are increasing differences here, which means that it is important to address these issues. The Centre Government's Equalisation Notice outlines five strategies to counteract this negative development, where about 10 pst. falls off the load and gets poorer and poorer. Firstly, the social security network should be improved to the extent that it captures those who fall by the wayside. The social security network consists of economic benefits for persons who themselves are unable to generate the necessary means of living, and the primary safety net is social security. Groups not currently covered by that system should also have some form of financial benefit and the level of benefits must be sufficient to provide the desired effect. The subsidiary safety network is the economic social assistance. There's been a lot of discussion about it in this room. The majority now advocates the development of state-guided standards for living expenses for all municipalities, so that there is something to stick to, and this can then be applied from 2001. The second point of the strategy is that a housing policy must be implemented that helps to provide all those who want it, a dwelling with acceptable standards at an acceptable price. It is not acceptable for a large group of people to be homeless. Among other things, the provision of accommodation is mentioned in the notification, and it is now clearly stated that accommodation should not be used for families with children and lone children and young people. It is also important to set quality standards for the hospice establishment. Especially in Oslo, it's a problem for people to get housing, and maybe especially for lonely. Social housing needs to be repatriated, and solutions need to be found without using the Marka. The housing need is one of the costs of centralisation. Thirdly, the workline that has been has to become softer, so that it includes more. Public services need to be improved and cooperation between employment offices, social services and social security offices is important. It does not necessarily need to be co-located, but it needs to be coordinated and co-operated for the benefit of the user. Then we have a strategy that is based on tax rules and taxation. The central parties, and especially the central party, believe that this with tax on dividends is something that the Storting must take on and treat now. The central government was working on a tax report to be submitted to the autumn. It is clear that Norway has a very low tax on capital income, and what may lead to the greatest inequalities today is that this part of the income is not taxed and distributed. There are important principles that lie in taxing by ability and also in the old saying ‘Do your duty, demand your right’. With such attitudes in the background, Norway may be better and more solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e468	First, I would like to address our proposals in the vote, and the proposal that has been distributed. The fight against poverty and for fair distribution should be a matter that caused the blood to boil properly and the shame to spread to many of those responsible. Norway is the world's richest country, and we can't continue to be a visionless greedy drug and stock speculator, when we know that there are people who even have to cut out buying drugs, get hungry and don't have a place to live. The welfare state is no longer a protection against poverty. All the parties say in the setting that it is a goal to eliminate poverty. It's an ambitious goal. SV is very pleased that the other parties have joined in. Then we also have to be willing to distribute. Not all parties like to talk about it. If we're going to raise the weakest, we're going to have to pick up money somewhere. If this is not to be redistribution between the poor, between the socialised, between the schoolchildren, social clients and the elderly, we have to find another place to get the money. The representative from the Central Party was up and talking about fair tax policy, and I am pleased about that. But I have to say on behalf of SV that we are quite shocked that the Central Party is involved and ensures a majority in order to give tax credits of SEK 2.3 billion to some of those who have a lot, just when we are dealing with the anti-dithering message where we give crumbs to the poorest. SV is pleased that the document has arrived. We've fought for this long, and the reality that's described there is right, and we have to do something about it. One of the most important areas in which we can do something is housing, and I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has chosen to be here today, precisely because the Prime Minister held a ‘big’ talk about how he would develop Norway in the future. He forgot one of the most important things, the residential area. Housing is basic. In the area of housing, Norway is at a disadvantage in Europe. We're running out of cheap rentals in this country. It's just 4 pst. of the housing stock, which is the average in the EU, of 18 pst. Now the majority say they're going to help build more rental homes, and that's great. SV is very happy about that, but then we have to do it. We know what's missing. There are two things missing. There's no money, and there's no land. The state and the municipalities have to spend cheap plots, and we have to give money. In the context of the revised budget, SV suggested raising the housing grant by 150 million. kr – unfortunately, no support for it. We say in the settings of the Equalizer message that we must aim to build at least 3,000 every year when the Government says that 20 000 is needed – no response. The problem here is not everything you write and everything you agree on, but the problem is everything you don't do, and you don't take the consequences. There is one thing that SV has been fully impressed by in the context of the Equalisation message, and that we are very pleased with, and that is to stop children being referred to to staying at the hospital. It is unworthy, and it is public child abuse when children are sent to the hospital when the family has become homeless. That's what the majority of the committee has said it's going to end, and it's SV very happy. So it's about giving everyone an opportunity to participate in the world of work, and that's the SV heart's agreement, it's a main strategy. Therefore, SV has proposed that training or action be entitled after four weeks of leave. It's a radical suggestion, but it's taking this seriously. Long leave without action and training is harmful and pointless. The country needs labour, and the unemployed need skills. Therefore, action and training must be given as quickly as possible, because that is what can ensure that people get a job. So finally, the state norm of social welfare. Unfortunately, it will not work. To the extent that it has to work, it will act as a redistribution between the poor, for it is said in the municipal economic proposition that this is not to be used by the rich state any more. If the Stortinget now decides to raise the norm for the poorest, the redistribution will take place on the municipal budgets. So social assistance clients are going to fight for money, along with hospitals and schools that need new books and PCs. It's a fight that will be very unfair and unworthy. The rich state has to assume a responsibility and be involved in paying this, and therefore the norm has to be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e489	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e492	Politics is largely about facilitating good living conditions for people. This is how the Equalisation Communication intervenes in the most important: having a policy where well-being and prosperity benefit all. The left believes that good living conditions are necessary for the inhabitants to be free and involved in society. That is the way welfare policy is also a question of democracy. The level of well-being of the country must be measured by how those with the least experience the welfare state. Most people in Norway have gotten better, but one can claim that since we've become richer, the will to see that some people fall outside has become smaller. The analysis carried out in connection with the message makes it clear that it is those who are not related to the world of work who have the worst lifestyles. The left thinks it should pay to work, and that everyone is responsible for caring for themselves, but we have to realize that not everyone does. These also need to share in the development of wealth. In the left we are pleased that a scheme of minimum wages will now be distributed in accordance with the proposal in the message. Guaranteed minimum income is, in principle, a right for all persons with income below a certain minimum threshold to receive a fixed minimum amount from the public. It can replace social assistance and social security schemes and thus simplify bureaucracy. Professionals can have better time to help people deal with themselves when they don't use time to draw millimeters every time power or rent changes. Above all, getting into a difficult life situation has a security to avoid running from one public office to the other to document their needs for the most necessary. You can instead use resources and energy to get out of the difficult situation you are experiencing. It is important that you get an emulation of your work line, so that you can allow others to use the work environment they have and which they want to use. An increasing number of people with reduced working skills express the difficulty of getting into work. Here, the labour market seat has a big task. The main role must be to qualify and help those who have special difficulties getting into work. Today, with a high demand for labour, most others are able to obtain work for themselves to a large extent. The left is in agreement with the Committee, which points out that we need to coordinate and clarify responsibilities between the labour market, social security and social services. The left is afraid that there is not enough co-location. Here we must implement organisational reforms. Various forms of cooperation attempts have given us clear answers. Users messages are unique. Today, it is a welfare problem that a large part of a generation have problems getting a dwelling at a price that they can pay. Here there is a need for public service, where state and municipality work together. I want to refer to Document No. The 8-proposal from Odd Einar Dørum and myself for immediate measures for the construction of cheap dwellings. A number of times within the Committee have asked the Government to consider several measures. These measures are also mentioned in our document No. Eight proposals. Cheap housing should be given a high priority if it is to improve living conditions for those who have the least. The left focuses on the overarching objectives of the distribution policy: ensuring a fair distribution of good and burdens in society. The tax system shall contribute to this by cushioning income. At the same time, the tax system must be arranged in such a way that it is easy for everyone to understand. An unwieldy and complex tax system will primarily benefit those with high incomes and best tax planning opportunities. A simpler and more efficient tax system will therefore benefit them with the lowest income. The left supports measures to reduce system exceptions and special arrangements. The left will actively use the tax system to improve the environment and to contribute to stronger dithering. Environmental taxes are to be used to lower taxes on labour. In particular, we will reduce the taxes on those with the lowest income by a sharp increase in the bottom deduction. Thus, such a green tax conversion will both improve the environment and work socially attenuatingly by benefiting them with the lowest income. Both on the basis of bias and in order to reduce the harmful effects of the divisional model, the Left will have an approximation between the tax rates on labour and capital. This combined with large deductions, reduced top taxes and far fewer exemptions and deductions will provide a simpler, more efficient and fairer tax system. The left goes against double taxation of share dividends by taxing on the recipient’s hand. The left will vote in favour of the Committee's proposal and, when it comes to the proposals that have been put forward, we will vote in favour of the proposal. 2, 3 and 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV, and for proposal No. 17 from SV. We go a little bit further in our Document No. 8-proposal for housing policy other than SV in its proposal No. 13, so we'll vote against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e522	First, I'd like to give tribute to the committee for a thorough work on the vote. I am pleased that there is such a broad consensus on the distribution policy, and in particular on strategies and measures to lift the worst. That's a good starting point for a further follow-up. Equality, security and well-being for all are and have always been the central objectives of the Workers' Party. A well-developed welfare society that embraces all is both an overall objective and an important basis for value creation and fair distribution. We want fair distribution and we want to fight exclusion. Safe people are creative people, people who are dry. A homogeneous and equivalent society is a competitive advantage for society as a whole. Our goal is for the whole population to be able to participate in the development of wealth. In the Government's Declaration of Accession, we say: ‘Over the last century, the major political challenge was to lift the majority to rights which benefited only a minority. Norway has succeeded in this. The vast majority of our country has work, security and well-being. Our common task is now to raise the minority." In Norway, we have placed great emphasis on value creation in a stable and healthy economy. We have pursued a policy aimed at ensuring that education, work, health and care services cover everyone on equal terms. In addition, we have a social security system that provides security for everyone and that helps to smooth out and help self-help. Therefore, the main picture of Norway today is that the vast majority of the population have a safe and good living environment and that we have had a positive development in the last 10–20 years. Nevertheless, we see that a small minority has been left hanging after, and that the inequalities have increased a little bit in this period. Those who fall outside the welfare community today are primarily those who are out of work. In addition, many have problems in several areas at the same time, both with health, social and day-to-day. Composite problems require coordinated solutions, cooperation and flexibility. It is necessary that we focus more on the individual user of public utility, how they experience and manage to benefit from the help they receive. Closer cooperation between the various levels is necessary. We therefore want the renewal and development of the public sector, where cooperation and coordination of services are central. A good welfare society depends on a strong public sector. A network of services that includes everyone is important for our well-being and security. The Labour Party Government is essentially supporting the outlined measures in the Equalisation Communication, but we want to go a step further. We want a broader and clearer bet. We want to combat the culture of greed. We want to work for a fairer tax system that gives fair distribution and less difference. We will come back to that in the tax bill in the budget for the autumn, and in the government's long-term programme. The majority of the Committee has emphasised in the recommendation for the Equalisation Communication that work and housing for all are crucial to preventing poor living conditions in the country. That's right and important. To take up work first: we want to continue the workline and facilitate an inclusive and more human work life. It is a key element in the policy of distribution. It must be possible to support itself as much as possible through its own work. In the Government's Declaration of Accession, we say: «Everyone shall have the opportunity to work. It's worth working. It should be a pleasure to work. Our goal is to get those who are unemployed today to work." We must prevent exclusion from the labour market, increased sick leave and disability. We have to prevent that working life can only accommodate the freshest of us. Enterprises and employers have a responsibility to take care of their employees in terms of reducing sick leave. We want to stimulate companies and employers to also provide room for people with disabilities. We will return to further action in this area when the Sandman Committee has delivered its recommendation. We must ensure that immigrants and refugees get to work as soon as possible after they come to the country. Many remain on passive benefits for a long time. It is unfortunate for the living conditions of individuals and for the integration of immigrants and refugees into Norwegian society. The government is working on a comprehensive review of integration policy. This will focus on active measures rather than passive benefits. We also need to ensure basic security for those who are unable to work. I agree with the Committee on the need to improve the safety of young people who are seriously ill. This applies to young people who are not currently in employment or in education and who are therefore not entitled to sickness benefits. The government will focus on finding solutions that ensure better economic security for these young people. It is also important to ensure an acceptable level of social assistance. Therefore, the Government will introduce state-guided social assistance standards. In addition, we will consider introducing a roof 2 on a special part to screen the most difficult ones. This is what the Government will come back to. Better and more targeted healthcare is also important in the work on equalisation and living conditions. To implement large-scale plans such as the ageing plan, the cancer plan and the psychiatry plan is very important in this perspective. Health and social services must also be able to provide adapted services to drug users. In order for the individual abuser to succeed in his rehabilitation, it is necessary to make an overall offer, such as: include housing with the necessary follow-up, activation capability and medical treatment rights both in relation to the abuse as such and in relation to normal health care. Housing at an affordable price, especially for young people in the start-up phase, is a very central asset. In order to prevent poor living conditions, the Government wants a wide range of housing policy initiatives. We want an increase in general housing construction and increased investment in the construction of the nights and good rentals and low-deposit dwellings. The Minister of Local Affairs will present a plan for this. Furthermore, a public sample is under way with a broad survey of housing policy, to be presented at the end of 2001. My goal is that the welfare community backyard should accommodate as little as possible, and that is why I am committed to ensuring a planned follow-up to the Committee's position. The government will present an action plan for social and economic security during the spring of 2001. Such an action plan will incorporate individual actions into an overall strategy to mitigate living conditions in Norway. Distribution and improvement of the living conditions of weak groups will also be central to the Government’s long-term programme. As part of the follow-up to such an action plan, I would like to add a periodic report to the Survey in welfare policy areas. In this context, the Storting will be able to be informed about the implementation of policies and measures, the remaining or new challenges, and how the various actions in the action plan work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e575	As I pointed out in my post, we have been introduced via TV2 to the fate of a person who, because of his disability, has problems getting to work, as he cannot use public transport because of his suffering. A unanimous committee says the following: ‘Some disabled persons, or persons with special disabilities, are prevented from taking part in the labour market because they cannot have a certificate or use public transport because of disability, and the Committee would stress that it would be better – both economically and humanly – to provide this group with support for transport than to allow them to move on to disability.’ This is a problem which, at least, I think it is very important that we get to grips with it, and quite quickly. Will the Council of State take a look at this issue as soon as possible, so that those affected can be supported by the type of transport they depend on in order to get to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e587	I noticed the same TV entry that the representative Nesvik has made, and was very surprised that it worked like this. We had already agreed that the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Labour and Administration and I would sit down and look at the transport systems of the disabled, and that would naturally include matters of the kind described in the media. I can therefore promise the representative, Nesvik, that I will look at that issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e594	Today, when we see the case rapporteur as a hen’s mother who embraces most of the good wishes under her wings in a comprehensive message and setting, a temptation can be made to ask the question as to why the Workers’ Party was initially so strongly opposed to such a message, but I will leave that. Drug users are a group that often has very poor living conditions, and there is a clear link between the availability, use, abuse and harm of drugs. I hope the Council of State will not contribute to increased availability and thus abuse and damage by e.g. to participate in and reduce alcohol taxes. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the SV, sees the need to step up efforts to reduce the use of, and thus the harm caused by, drugs and also promotes proposals for a comprehensive report on a more comprehensive treatment provision for drug users. The Labour Party does not support this proposal. Is the council satisfied with the state of the day, or how will she attack this situation? The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right make a wish for a more extensive use of methadone and buprenorphine in the setting. They call this treatment instead of substitution, as it really is, and they want to look at the criteria for the award of methadone. The Christian People's Party emphasises that substitution with methadone is only effective when it is done under close follow-up and control, and hopes that the Council of State will build on this, and that substitution should not be an alternative to the release of drugs for those who can achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e603	In the case of the alcohol charge, it has not been included in this message, nor in the setting. That we may have to adapt to the world we live in, I don't ignore it, but I haven't presented anything about it yet. In the case of drug-assisted rehabilitation for opiate users — and I stress that in the case of opiate users, there is a quite significant group of drug users where methadone or other drugs can be used instead of opiates — I have said that I want to look at both the criteria and not least the organisation of the treatment offered to them. What I don't want to change is the requirement that it should also be accompanied by social measures such as housing and activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e610	It is a very comprehensive message that is on the table here today, a whole of 275 pages, but I do not see the word and reasoning that are being redeemed. More than half of the values created in Norway today go through the public sector. We see that countries with a lower public share actually have as good security networks as we do. The point is that half of a medium sized cake is less interesting than 30 pst. of a much larger cake. We don't get any better social security networks here than what we do to create from values, things to attract from jobs, things to create from dynamism in the economy, less fine-tuning negotiating patterns and fewer bureaucratic principles. On one point, however, the Committee is, in fact, fully in agreement, stating that there is a close link between labour income and living standards. But if you want jobs, you also need employers. The Minister for Social Affairs said in his speech that the Labour Party now wants to increase taxes in order to increase cohesion, and that is what we need to get back to in the context of the State budget. Then I just have to say straight away that additional tax increases for those with the so-called high incomes and large wealth now will have significant negative consequences, including. by the fact that more enterprises and individuals will choose to move out of the country, and thus the investments and jobs will also be moved. As a result, the government's attempts at further income balancing can lead to the richest not being hit, because they disappear out of the country, while more people lose their jobs and get financial problems as a result. Of course, we do not want such a development, nor does it contribute to increased justice in any way. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: can she guarantee that the tax increases that the Workers' Party will propose will not get the negative side since fewer jobs are created and businesses disappear from the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e620	As I said in my post, we will come back to the tax proposals in the budget. I don't want to get any closer to them here, nor to the consequences of them. What I want to underline is what I said in my post that safe people are creative people. If we are able to create a safe and good society, we also get an increased value creation and thus more to create a social safety net for, which then again can increase security and give us a good and positive spiral.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e627	The representative Eye pointed out in his statement that there is a majority for more methadone in this room. But methadone treatment isn't just methadone, is it? In fact, it's called methadone-assisted treatment, so that you need both housing, work and, among other things. a stable social network to ensure that this treatment is meaningful and correct. How does the Minister of Social Affairs assess this? Does she agree with my presentation? And how will she intensify work to meet the basic needs of housing and work in order to radically increase methadone-assisted treatment? In the debate on the Equalisation Communication, the focus has been on children’s living conditions. Some people say that it is stigmatizing to talk about children suffering when the lack of resources is so great that talking about poverty can be justified. I think it's right to call a spade a spade, and is that poverty, it's a relationship we have to do something about. The majority now asks for a comprehensive report on the distribution of living conditions for children and young people in Norway. What are the main problems that the Minister of Social Affairs believes today that action must be taken in relation to children and young people with poor living conditions? I'm thinking about, among other things. This stigmatisation thing, that you get a start on your life course that leads to a wrong outcome, and that it's very precious to society when children get such a life course?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e634	The Representative for Lutvold asks how we should proceed in the field of drug-assisted rehabilitation of drug addicts. It has been a relatively short time to use this type of treatment for drug addicts, because in this country we have had a very moralistic idea that either there should be drug freedom or it should not. If you couldn't, there was no treatment to be given. I am very happy that we now at least have the opportunity to provide treatment. I am already looking at the organisation of the way we assign treatment places, because it turns out that the municipalities are able to deal with housing and with measures, but the project is unable to process the applications, and then we have created a bureaucracy in the bureaucracy that we don't even need, and we need to reorganize that. I want to come back to something in the budget for the autumn about how we're going to do this. Then it was the main problems for children and young people. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has started working on a growing-up report on the situation of children and young people in Norway. I'm going to believe that in the case of those who have the most difficult living conditions among children and young people, the most important thing we can do is to help their parents get started, so that the family has a income to live off and a home to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e643	I assume that the Government agrees with the SV that what we are proposing of measures, in fact should work, make some difference from or to, and then I have to ask if the guidance social assistance you are now introducing. There, the government says that the state should not be involved in paying more money for this. Municipalities shall not be bound by it; they shall still be allowed to determine the amount. When we know that there are 11 billion dollars in deficits on the municipal budgets now, how does the Minister of Social Affairs think that this should ensure a boost for the poorest? And how can the Minister of Social Affairs justify that the rich state should not contribute when the poorest in the country are getting a little bit more? Then I have another question, and it's about the one-time benefit at birth. It gets everyone, no matter how rich you are. The only people who are at risk of losing this social benefit are people who go to social assistance, people who lack most of their daily lives. These are young people. They might have just settled down, if they've been so lucky to have a house. What in the world do they have of things where they're going to receive a little child and make sure it gets the security and the most elementary things? Why in the world does the government think that exactly this group should be assessed in relation to whether they actually need any of these heads, if it's not possible to subtract any of these heads from them again? If the Social Minister and all of us in this country have children -- now some of us may be a bit older, but if we were to get it -- we get this money no matter how rich we are. What in the world is the reason why one believes that the poorest should not keep this money as we have said that everyone needs to be able to secure the most elementary things to do when accepting a newborn child?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e650	The rich state has a responsibility to make sure it's order in the economy. The rich state also has a responsibility to ensure that the competitive conditions for the industry are so good that we can still have jobs in this country. It is quite important when it comes to defrosting, that we have jobs spread throughout the country and not just associated with the oil. And that's one of the reasons why the rich state can't spend as much money as Andersen's representative would have wanted, and that sometimes the social minister would have wanted, but I actually see that something is more important than anything else. Indicative social assistance, I believe, is a good measure of getting through what will be a reasonable size, and we know that these types of recommendations bring about closer equality among users of social assistance. I am also concerned that it will be possible for the municipalities to assess the different needs. I actually believe that the municipalities are doing their best. In the case of a lump sum at birth, it is a social security benefit that is intended to cover the cost of living in a specific situation of life. The Social Services Act gives municipalities the right and obligation to apply judgement and assess all matters relating to social benefits individually. In general, this is also true in relation to the single-use benefit at birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e659	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e662	The present attitude is as voluminous as the message, but little concrete in terms of proposals to solve the problems for those of our fellow citizens who in our well-being society really suffer both physical and mental distress. To these smaller groups, there is still little to be allocated to government funds, as the main public welfare transfers go to young people, healthy people and work. From the left side of Norwegian politics, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, it has been claimed repeatedly in recent years and in various contexts that Norway has evolved into a so-called ‘third-party society’. The present message rebuts such a claim. The Communication emphasises on the contrary that Norway is a society with small economic and social differences, in relation to other countries in Europe. Although the message initially indicates that a more fine-skinned safety net must be provided for those who really need public assistance, this is little concrete in the message and to a lesser extent taken into account in the present setting. It will continue to be such that public and government transfers are substantially linked to health and work and are too much linked to paid employment. One consequence of this is that there will be too few resources left to help those who really need help in our society. It has amazed me greatly that neither the message nor the setting has dealt particularly with the lack of capacity we have in our health care, both in somatic matters and not least psychiatry, a problem that is not a welfare society worthy. Standing in a state of health for months and years creates anxiety, insecurity and a significant decrease in the quality of life for many. I often ask myself: does the concept of solidarity and justice apply to sick and caring people, or does it not apply? It is not sufficient for the Storting to adopt different health and care escalation plans if the majority of the Storing is not at the same time willing to provide the necessary resources to implement the plans. I am pleased with the signals given, both by our new Prime Minister and by our new Minister of Health, in terms of future intensive health care. However, we have heard about this before, without anything particularly positive in this way. So far in practical policy, this government has not shown the will to take the radical steps needed to improve the capacity of our public hospitals. In fact, in the revised national budget, the majority of the Stortnings, including the government party, have overall reduced the appropriations for our hospitals. But we're taking the signals, and we're going to make a positive contribution to getting a better health care system if that's what this government wants. The need for care facilities is currently not met. The Progress Party will therefore reject and endorse a proposal from the Government that the development of residential and nursing homes should be stopped by the end of 2001. In this case, it will not fully address the growing need for care and care for people over 80 – in fact over 90 – years. There is also another small group in society among our fellow people who are suffering from physical distress, namely those who are drug addicts and other drug addicts. They've been a forgotten group of people that we've been missing, both me, other politicians and society too. We now need to take more care of this grouping and provide the treatment and care they really need, both the patients themselves and their families. The best thing we can do is to remove the client stamp on our drug addicts and look at them as what they really are, namely patients. I'm glad the new social minister sees this point. There will be full support from the Progress Party to provide a better form of treatment for our drug addicts in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e683	Fair distribution and equivalent living conditions for all are key policy values of the Government. These are the values that guided social democracy throughout the last century, and they will be for social democracy in this century as well. A strong public sector is a fundamental security for equal living conditions for all. Therefore, our common welfare systems should be strengthened, not weakened. Therefore, public employees are a resource, not a burden. And therefore, we will need more staff in education, health, care and many other public enterprises — not fewer. The public sector is currently under pressure in many areas. Then the attacks also come from the right-hand side. There is a dissatisfaction to establish more market-based welfare policy solutions, so that the amount of a server – the size of the wallet – will become more critical to the kind of welfare services you receive. There is a line government rejects. For the Government – and the Labour Party – it is a main task to mobilise a strong defence for our common welfare systems, as organised by the public. The struggle for a strong public sector stands in Norwegian policy between the right-hand side of the page and the Labour Party, the Centre and the SV of the other. I think it'll be even clearer in time to come. Our goal is to renew the public sector to strengthen it, not to weaken it. Good welfare services and even distribution are a competitive advantage for Norway, not a burden on value creation. This is what we see when we compare Norway with other industrialized countries. Together with Germany and the United States, Norway has the highest proportion of working-age graduates, in particular women with a high level of education in Norway. The Nordic countries and the Netherlands have a steady distribution of income compared to other industrialized countries, and Norway uses a larger share of government transfers to support them with the lowest income than other countries. At the same time, however, Norway has lower taxes on labour than many other European countries, and we have a competitive tax system in relation to our businesses. As far as much of the new economy, information technology, the Internet is concerned, we feel that Norway and the other Nordic countries are at the forefront, not in spite of, but actually because we have well-developed welfare systems and a good training offer that reaches the broad community of the people. We have managed to improve the situation for families with children, so that women have been able to continue to participate in the labour market. It's an advantage for women, but it's also an advantage for the entire Norwegian community. The quality of society is measured by how well we take care of our weakest. We have to recognise that some groups have not taken part in the prosperity development we have had in Norway. Here again, there are arguments for the renewal of our public welfare systems, because much of this is because our society has changed. We've had more elderly people, we've got more lonely people, and we've got more lonely people. In 1998, half of all households in Norway were lone, with a sharp increase over a few decades. Many lonely and lonely caregivers have found it more difficult. One area where many are struggling is the housing market. We need to get more reasonable rental homes in Norway. At the same time, we have seen strong growth in housing prices, especially in large cities. It is therefore appropriate to use more loans and grants in the House Bank to stimulate housing in large cities. Building several reasonable rental homes is an important and effective tool to improve the living conditions of some of those who find it most difficult today. We have to use the tax system to contribute to fairer distribution; those who have much, pay more, and those who have little, can pay less. I am pleased that Storting’s treatment of the Equalisation Communication shows that there is a broad majority to strengthen and further develop the Norwegian welfare model. The fight for fair distribution and equivalent living conditions is never won once and for all, so it is important that we repeatedly confirm that these values are central to us, and that we are willing to constantly renew the means of equalising the living conditions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e707	I am amazed that the Prime Minister continues the vulgar propaganda that he learned in school debates, where he has to produce other parties in a completely wrong way, so as to distance himself from his own misrepresentation. The Progress Party wants a strong public sector. I would ask the Prime Minister to stop saying that we are opposed to a strong public sector. We want a strong public sector, but that does not mean that all publicly paid service production necessarily has to be done by public employees. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, when he claims that he will go into some things, why the Government and the Workers' Party are opposed to the statutory right to state-backed elderly care services and hospital services. Why will the head of government not guarantee that there will be no redundancies in Norwegian hospitals as a result of a lack of money? Why is the Prime Minister sitting passively and witnessing plans to shut down the Rehabilitation Department at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø? There are many different county municipalities that are now struggling. Why is the government and the prime minister going in to cut $760 million? kr in equipment acquisitions for our hospitals, which he has clear plans to do? And why did the Prime Minister and the Government go into quotas on the implementation of the old-age care plan and ask the counties to stop the municipal plans for 10,000 nursing homes and care places? How can the Prime Minister nevertheless stand here and claim that he is the guarantor of care for the weakest?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e714	The representative Carl I. Hagen and I have met in school debates for a long time. I think we have a slightly different form here in Stortinget, both Hagen and I, and I think that serves us both. The party was formed as a party for a strong reduction in public expenditure and taxes. That the leader of the Progress Party today says that the Progress Party is for a strong public sector, I see in my mind that there has also been a development in that party. The problem is that the party is now a member of the ‘strong public sector’, to quote the representative Hagen, and at the same time the party has held to the second part of the party’s fundamental view, namely a strong reduction in the revenue of the public. I've pointed out that contradiction a long time ago. There was logic in that when the Progress Party was both in favour of a sharp reduction in public expenditure and a sharp reduction in public revenue. Now the Progress Party is for a strong build-up of public expenditure, but at the same time for a sharp decline in public revenue. That contradiction does not relate to the Progress Party. That party promises the greatest tax relief, takes money out of the state fund and reduces revenue, and at the same time they want more and more appropriations. We have been through the lists before, but in the party programme of the Progress Party, proposals have been submitted that will reduce revenue by about DKK 100 billion – up to a quarter of all the country's revenue. Then there will be a weaker public sector, there will be less money for care for the elderly, less money for health and less money for very many other good purposes we agree on should be strengthened. The government is not passive, the government made sure that after we had been in the government offices a few weeks, 1.2 billion extra kroner were allocated to health in addition to what was granted in the state budget from the Bondevik government just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e722	Finally, it is worth noting that it was already announced at last autumn's budgetary procedure that one had to review the hospitals' economy and come back with new appropriations this spring, so there was no new initiative from the workers' party government. However, the allocation of the working party government has proved to be insufficient, so the majority of the population has adopted an increase of about a quarter. One and a half billion dollars. Otherwise, it is positive that the Workers' Party is so committed to the debate on the Equalisation Notice that the Prime Minister and others from the Party are taking part. And it's very interesting given the background to the announcement made by the central government here, namely that the Labour Party in the debate on the throne in 1996, when this matter was first raised, voted against a proposal to submit an anti-sampling report. It is also interesting to note that the head of the Workers' Party, and then also the Prime Minister's candidate, characterised the proposal of the Centre Parties for a countervailing measure, namely an increase in the minimum pension of NOK 12 000 per year, as «qualifying», while the Workers' Party later voted as known for the same proposal. There is agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre on the need for a strong public sector. But that means that we have to seriously discuss how to avoid overloading the public sector with tasks, so that it is actually weakened. The same is true of our public concern, where the growth of expenditure is now suffocating the possibility of other priorities. The Prime Minister was concerned with the relationship between taxes on capital income and employee income. There, the Labour Party and the Centre parties have had different solutions, and none of them have been adopted. The debate on why we know well, we do not take that up again now, but then we should sit down and see if it is possible to find other approaches that you can agree on, so that something on this point is adopted. And so I ask, why does the Workers' Party – I expect in agreement with the Government – oppose this, why would they vote against a proposal in today's position where one asks the Government to come back with such grips?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e736	The Bondevik government's most active period has actually been experienced after the government went off, because now they come with money and measures that would have been presented if they had been seated. I am pleased that, like a broad majority here in Stortinget, the centre parties recognize that what was granted to health last autumn – which was actually a little more than the government then proposed – was too small. What we're now discussing is how much more we're going to grant for the current year, and there's been a further addition. That's good, among other things. because it has been found to be possible within a responsible financial framework. As far as the defrosting communication is concerned, I believe that it illustrates that anti-balancing policies in and on all areas of policy – housing, budgetary policy, fiscal policy, welfare policy, health policy, etc. This means that there is a question of the appropriateness of how to best express and manage this, whether you do it in one big message, or whether you do it in all the individual areas. We have an open relationship with that. We think it is quite excellent that we are now dealing with a joint forecasting, but we believe that the value of it is only measured if we are able to follow the different intentions and objectives of the different sectors, whether it be housing policy, tax policy or other areas. With regard to the future of the welfare state, I believe that the other central parties and the Christian People's Party – Kjell Magne Bondevik in particular – have taken the initiative in a very valuable and important debate into which it is difficult to address, namely the very strong growth in the expenditure of the people's fear, which makes it difficult to find room for appropriations to produce welfare services. It is primarily services that we will need in the years to come, and we need to look at how we can handle it in a socially sound way. It is an important debate that the central parties have taken the initiative and that we would like to take part in. In the case of capital taxes, we will make good proposals gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e749	Let me first say that I see one of the strangest debates we have today, is the debate between Kjell Magne Bondevik and Prime Minister Stoltenberg when they come together to describe how inadequate the 2000 budget is, especially in the area of health. I would like to remind you that it was Bondevik and Stoltenberg who made the budget for the year 2000, but now they are fighting and must distance themselves from their common product. There is no doubt that one of the most important and serious differences that develop is the difference between those who have work and those who have no work. That is why it is creating work and putting in place the conditions for creating jobs, one of the most important things we need to talk about when it comes to differences, especially because some of the proposals that are often promoted in the name of cohesion, for example. in the field of taxation, directly counteracts the preconditions for maintaining or creating new jobs in Norway. Two important examples of this are the taxes on wealth and the option tax. Mr. Brende challenged the Minister of Social Affairs in this area, but it seemed as if there was a problem issue that was completely uninteresting to the Government in this context. And then my question is, is the Prime Minister first of all agreeing with me that one of the main differences we have to attack is the difference between those who have work and those who do not have work? And if he is first, can he really agree with the Social Minister when she clearly believes that there is no need to engage in such a debate right here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e758	The answer is yes. I believe that one of the main problems, and that is well documented in the welfare message, is related to whether you have work or not. It also creates differences in many other areas. This is why the overall objective of the distribution policy is to ensure work for all. This is a matter of many things, including: on labour market measures. The big paradox today is that there is a shortage of labour in many sectors in many parts of the country, while we have tens of thousands of people going unemployed. The bridge back to the labour market of the people are labour market measures, which should give them competence, helping them into the ordinary labour market. Therefore, we have strongly warned against cutting labour market measures. We see that the Right does not take those warnings seriously. We believe that this is a serious failure in relation to the perhaps the weakest, those who go unemployed in a labour market where there is actually a shortage of labour. As far as the taxes on wealth are concerned, I would say it has obvious weaknesses. It discriminates and seems arbitrary. We see, for example: that some of those with the largest assets of shares, through different types of intervention, may come out with little or zero in taxes on wealth, while the minimum pensioners who have NOK 20 000-30000 in the bank and a paid-down dwelling may pay taxes on wealth. The taxes on wealth therefore operate arbitrarily and unfairly. The Labour Party government started a work to do something about it. We lowered the rate of property tax from 1.5 pst. to 1.1 pst., which was not least to the benefit of the hundreds of thousands of pensioners who have some savings in the bank. They received a significantly lower wealth tax with the Workers' Party's proposal. We also proposed to raise the bottom deduction, the amount of the free money you have at the bottom. It was voted down by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Parties in the autumn of 1997. If the bourgeois parties had voted in favour of the Workers' Party's tax arrangements, ordinary small savers would have had lower taxes on wealth than they have today. But the bourgeois parties insisted that ordinary small savers should have higher taxes on wealth than the Workers' Party proposed. That's where we have a job to do, and we're also looking at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e765	The Prime Minister focuses on Norway as the society of opportunity. The Smoothing Message is a way of giving more groups and individuals a chance to get out of a bad circle, giving them a new start and a more worthwhile and meaningful life. There is an urgent need for action to counteract the developments we are now seeing. With the well-being message fresh in memory, where all the decisions have not yet been implemented, the Centre Party would point out that a rapid follow-up is needed. The Equalizer message has a one-year doctor in Stortinget. We would like to ask the Prime Minister to support the fact that the proposals contained in this message will not be realized any more years later. We would ask the Prime Minister to give priority to the proposals in the message all in the 2001 budget. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm whether, for the sake of them – perhaps as many as – 50,000 poor children in this country will quickly realize the measures that will provide children with a better starting point, greater child allowances for disabled parents, increased transitional assistance during challenge and increased support for child care and for parents with disabled children. These proposals may seem narrow and narrow-track, but they are invaluable to those in debt. It also applies to better-suited families of children, government guidance standards for social assistance and a more well-organised treatment provision for drug users. These are measures that will provide opportunities for more children in Norway for a better and safer environment for growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e774	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa mentioned a wide range of proposals that were addressed in the context of the treatment of the welfare message. She also asked in general whether the Government will follow up the proposals in the communication for which it is a majority, quickly. The answer to that is of course yes. We will follow up those proposals as quickly as possible, without me being able to decide exactly when each proposal will be followed up. Moreover, it is paradoxical that the former Minister of Social Affairs, in a government set up up up up to three months ago, mentions a wide range of proposals which are obviously felt to be urgent. It would have been entirely possible for the previous government to promote these proposals, whether in the case of minimum standards, guidelines for social assistance or increased supplements for different groups. There is once again an example of a violent activity, and there is an urgent need for action from one of the government offices who was responsible for this field up to three months ago. The proposals could have been promoted by the previous government if they rushed so much. Otherwise, I would like to remind you of the following: what is most strongly documented in the Equalizer message, and which is the key to the question of differences between people, is whether you are in a regular job or not. If you have your own income from work, the probability is that you can also cut much higher in all other welfare areas – have less problems with alcohol, have a fixed home, etc. – much higher. Therefore, the key is work. The problem is that we have 60,000-70,000 people who are out of work, in a labour market that needs a lot of work. It's about the 60 000 to 70 000 people don't have the skills, qualifications, maybe they can't speak Norwegian, to take the job vacancies. Therefore, it is a paradox that the Centre Party and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who are so concerned about helping the weakest, are now dramatically cutting labour market measures for the very weakest in the labour market – several thousand places. The labour market measures, not least for immigrants, will be stopped abruptly until the autumn if the proposal of the centre lots is adopted. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e785	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e788	In SV we see the equalization message as a winner. The Equalisation Communication documents what SV has claimed throughout the 1990s, namely that differences have increased and that we have a poverty problem in Norway. I have many times in this room previously challenged the previous prime ministers of the Workers' Party on just these questions and received a blank in response. Gro Harlem Brundtland has “marshet” furiously out of this hall many times because of SV’s so-called unsubstantiated claims. So the perspective that's in the Equalizer message is a victory. I also note that Prime Minister Stoltenberg has acknowledged that there are differences in Norway that need to be combated and that inequalities have increased. It's an important confession. But then it's about doing to get from there to action. There is greater SV's disappointment, because there is little obligating action the majority of the population agrees to come on the basis of this message. We in SV make a lot of progress and let me take one. Dwelling is the second key to participating in society. Work is important, but it's hard to get a steady job if you don't have a fixed stay. In the case of housing policy, Norway is in fact a ‘slope country’. We have much less social housing than other countries; we have fewer opportunities for young people and others who are struggling to establish themselves in the housing market. Then the question is whether it is possible to spank the crowns needed to meet the objectives of the anti-corrosion communication in terms of housing policy. And then I have a question for the Prime Minister. There is now a majority to oblige the Government to impose exemptions from property taxes on so-called working capital already from next year's government budget. It's obviously urgent for the center parties. Will the Prime Minister challenge the centre parties to leave the cost-effective and expensive proposal of DKK 2.5 billion to get the crowns needed to start a social housing project?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e806	First, a small consideration of this with differences — whether they have increased or not increased. I believe that it is documented in the difference message that they have increased. But I think in a way that it's not crucial, the crucial thing is that anyone who looks around the Norwegian community, regardless of how the statisticians measure inequality and problematize how difficult it is to measure it, sees that the differences are too large. So even though they hadn't increased in the 1990s, I think we should have done something with them because they're obviously too big. There are still far too many differences between those with great opportunities and those with little opportunities in Norwegian society. And that is what we want to do in a wide range of policy areas. In this case, we agree. That's one of the areas where we now see the greatest differences, especially in Oslo. It's about municipal responsibility, but it's also about a state responsibility to seek to facilitate the construction of rental properties, especially the coin of those who have the most difficult in the housing market. As far as the taxes on wealth are concerned, I think that I should be very careful to say that we are now working on the whole tax package for 2001, and I find it difficult to go into individual items there. But I have pointed out earlier in the debate that the wealth tax has obvious weaknesses, that we have tried to do something about it in the budget proposals that the Labour Party has had in the past, especially the proposal we had when we were in government last time, and there are thoughts that we still want to follow up. The problem with any tax debate is that it's always easier to argue against a tax than for an alternative tax or cut into an alternative public expenditure, so to reduce the wealth tax by a few billion dollars, I know many who can argue well for it, but it's much harder to find another tax that should be increased by a few billion dollars, or a public expenditure that should be cut by a few billion dollars. Then the posts become levers, less precise and less enthusiastic. And that's the whole thing we're going to put in the budget line that we're going to produce for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e821	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e825	There's a couple of things I'm going to focus on in my post. First of all, I should like to say a few words about that Document No. My 8-proposal that's in the mood. I have clearly stated my reasons for promoting this proposal. It is simply because the outrageous and scandalous discrimination that Norwegian citizens have been subjected to when they have been outside this country for five years could not continue. But it was remarkable to record that when asylum seekers and immigrants came to the country, they had full rights from the first day. Nordics must live in the country for three years before they are granted rights to disability benefits and social security schemes in line with immigrants and asylum seekers. I found it so unfair that I promoted this proposal. I have noticed that the Minister of Social Affairs has written in a letter that my proposal may be misleading. Yes, I've registered that. But the committee has found out that there must be something in this when they write on page 77 of the setting: ‘The Committee points out that there are some exceptions to the requirement for 3 years’ membership.’ Yeah, that's exactly what's the point. The derogation applies only to asylum seekers and immigrants, it does not apply to Norwegian citizens. Then I don't understand what kind of misleading information I have given. The point is that there are exceptions to the People's Security Act for these peoples. But the committee has understood the point. They have proposed a social security scheme equivalent to the minimum pension for all persons who have reduced their residence. And I hope now that this arrangement will be put into effect. It is broken, as it was, that a Norwegian citizen who came to the country here – not just one, but many – and became ill and declared ill perhaps weeks before the three-year period, before the three-year period here, could not get any kind of social benefit. It was so unworthy that something had to be done, and it seems that the setting put on the table should capture it. The next thing I'm going to talk about is reactivation of disability pensioners. I would like to draw attention to Document No. My 8th proposal, 1997-98 and Innst. S. No 37 for 1998-99, annexed to the Protocol. Here, the Committee – and the Ministry of Social Affairs admits – that it is difficult to get people to work when they are illiterate. Yes, it was just to be lacking that it was not difficult! If you work for more than 1 G, the government takes the excess. It is clear that no one will fall into the trap and start working, lose the social security and perhaps not be able to work. But if my proposal had been taken into account, that they had paid taxes like other normal people for the excess, they could be back in full-time work in a couple-three years. But they don't want to take the chance of leaving the safety net they've been given in the event of disability. It had to be possible to get into a system so that these people could get into work and pay taxes. The labour manager says we have to have 30,000 immigrants. Even if we could have used some of these disability pensioners to do the jobs that the 30,000 immigrants are going to do. Is it not possible to look at my proposal again, and try to incorporate and create a system so that people who have the desire and the power to work can go out into the labour market without losing their social security? I think it's crazy. Those who have capital income and are over 70 years old can earn as much as they want, without being deprived of social security! There is something the Social Minister should look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e843	Let me first comment some of what the Prime Minister said in his reply. It must be based on the fact that he either does not have an overview of the use made of the appropriations in the labour market budget, or there must be a political preference. In fact, what is happening in the revised national budget of the majority is a cut equal to half of the additional appropriations granted in the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, which was earmarked for the use of the crisis in the yard industry. It is not about measures against refugees, it is not about putting those who really have problems in focus, it is about a highly competent resource group. That is why what the Prime Minister said in relation to the consequences of it, wrong, if it is not that the Workers' Party's promises to the West and these measures are not correct. This message is most interesting from the perspective of the debate around it, not so much for what it says. The interesting thing about the debate has been that it has been highly profiled as an action, while the measures in the communication have almost not been mentioned. And today's debate has been pretty much like it does. The question is whether this communication should really be about the differences in Norway, whether it is about a new general welfare message, or whether it is a message that focuses on what is called poverty Norway. SV has been primarily concerned with increasing taxes, i.e. doing something about the differences from the top of the labour market, and the Labour Party has, in my opinion, been primarily concerned with maintaining the benefits for those who are in the labour market, both in its position and in the debate here, even though their rhetoric is about those who are outside the labour market. They do not see that the lack of flexibility in the labour market also leads to an increase in unemployment, which means that the threshold of access for those who do not have such strong labour skills as the most powerful is actually higher when technical and legal barriers are created. The centre batches have sold well, and they have delivered a message, but have not said so much about the measures, perhaps because the measures are largely of an investigative and further work character. Actually, there is a status report in an ongoing work. What is important is the question: should we have a safety net in Norway for everyone and be most concerned about it, or should we be sure that we have a safety net that focuses primarily on those outside? And the two things can conflict with each other, because a safety net for everyone can mean that those who fall outside do not get inside at all. In the Right’s view, cohesion is less important than focusing on those who have the most difficulty. And this can be summed up as follows: We need more individual focus on all parts of the apparatus that work against those who are disadvantaged and who have fallen out of the labour market. If you want to do more for those who fall out, it's important to see the individuals. The important thing is not to think about groups and categories, but to look at the overall problems of individuals, because most of them have more than one problem. And what's the cause and what's the effect, sometimes it's hard to figure out. We're going to take it inward that Velferds-Norway actually reproduces inequality and actually reproduces poverty. And we should do that in relation to a debate that has a great deal to do with being political slogans, as it has been for the time being today. It does it because we may lack this individual focus in the treatment system, out in the auxiliaries. The lack of coordination is a major problem. Many have more than one problem, and it is a paradox that the weakest in our society very often meet the most complex auxiliaries, and you have to go to one ward for each problem, even though you really have a great variety of problems that should have been solved in cooperation. For this reason, the Right has considered that we need better coordination of social security, labour market and social services. There are several parties that believe, but the need is present to do something about the internal cultures. I want to go so far as to say that there may be a need to see whether the labour market will gradually have to split into different levels if we do not have to do anything with what seems to be the main thing for the labour market, namely to be an entity that will compete on the commercial market, and that has lost much of the individual focus and helping the weakest. This is even stronger when the Workers' Party is now proposing to reintroduce the Youth Guarantee. It is not the case that the Youth Guarantee is a measure to help those who are weakest in the labour market. Youth in general has good relationships. Some young people have problems, and they need to be solved by means of long-term unemployed or social clients. However, a general youth guarantee will lead to the transfer of resources from the weakest to those who are not so weak. And it's going to create a bigger problem for those we really should help, those who are long-term unemployed and long-term social clients.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e860	Today, the Stortinget deals with the distempering message, which was presented by the Bondevik government last summer. The attitude of the Social Committee shows that there is a broad consensus here in the European Parliament on important issues of distribution policy. Most in Norway have seen a good increase in income in the last ten years. The large majority are participants in the development of wealth, among others. through increased employment and real wage growth. However, this does not apply to all. Therefore, an important challenge in working for a fairer distribution will be to raise them with the lowest income. Budgetary cooperation last autumn and the treatment of the bridging message in the Stortinget show that the Labour Party will have a good basis in the future to establish a majority in favour of such a policy. Norway is a rich country in every way. We have the best conditions to give our citizens opportunities for a good life. For a long time, we have built the welfare state on the basis of rich natural resources and a highly skilled population. We live in a peaceful corner of the world, and it has given us peace and security to bet on well-being – with the people's peace as pillars. A stable and good economy is a prerequisite for a well-developed welfare country. Strong economic fluctuations can help to shift income and living conditions between groups in the short term. It also weakens the basis for an effective distribution policy. A good health service, good care for the elderly, increased funds to combat crime and our commitment to international solidarity must therefore be implemented within the framework of a stable economic development in our country. The joint comments of the Social Committee in the vote show that there is also a broad political consensus on such a starting point. Tax policy is of great importance for us to be able to create fair distribution. The 1992 tax reform has helped to increase the average tax on them by the highest incomes by taxing a greater part of the capital income. However, it is a fact that those who have had the strongest income growth are those who have large investment incomes. More equitable distribution was the main objective of the Workers' Party when we negotiated the state budget for the last autumn of 2000. The result for the current year was improvements through a new wage deduction for the lowest income and an additional step in the top tax for the highest income. This was an important step towards better cohesion. Until the 2001 budget, the Government will assess changes in the tax rules that can further strengthen the distribution profile of the tax system. About three-quarters of Norway's income is made up of wages and salaries. Contributing to the greatest possible amount of work is therefore one of the most important things we can do to create good distribution. Many suggest that several of those who today have their main income from social security can participate more in the professional life with some organisation. In order to achieve a more inclusive working life, we need to look at the functioning of the employment service and the mechanisms of exclusion that apply in different workplaces. For a long time, we have had a positive development in the standard of living in our country. Most people are getting better and better. At the same time, we have to take inwards about 3-5 pst. the population has a relatively low annual income at all times. For some, this is a temporary problem of being out of the labour market for a period of time. But for about 1-2 pst. of the population, it is a fact that they have low incomes over a long period of time. These we can refer to as the poor in our welfare society. What affects these groups is often a chain of problems: low education, lack of or no link to working life, poor housing, often combined with poor health. Of course, this is also the point of the Committee's attention in its work, and it is also gratifying that the Committee's position focuses on measures to prevent poor living conditions, while at the same time bringing together a majority for a number of specific measures for particularly vulnerable groups. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Parties and the Socialist Left Party, are in favour of the Government providing an action plan to follow up the Equalisation Communication and its treatment by the Stortinge in spring 2001. We have today heard the Minister of Social Affairs describe how this will be handled by the Government. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to ensure that young people seriously ill have an economic security, because the fact is that in Velferds-Norway today, young people who are seriously ill who are under education have not been granted any rights and thus are not entitled to sickness benefits. In addition, several of these have a particular financial burden with high medical and treatment costs, without requiring any financial assistance. The decision taken today by the Stortinget should improve the situation of young people who have been in an acute life crisis because of serious illness. This measure includes, inter alia: also young people with mental illness who need assistance in the event of a serious illness. Housing policy has been given a central place in the handling of the mitigation message, and to meet the housing challenges, we need to use a wide range of instruments. It is, as the rapporteur stressed in the opening of the debate, ‘that it is becoming a welfare problem when a large proportion of a generation have problems getting a dwelling at a price that they can pay’. In recent years, there has been an unmet need for good and nudity housing, perhaps especially in key areas. In the budget agreement for the current State budget, the Workers’ Party received a positive impact on increased grants for rental dwellings and student housing. The need for more investment in housing policy in the future. Lack of suitable housing strengthens the difficult living conditions of vulnerable groups, not least in large cities. For the young and the homeless, new investment on reasonable and cheap rentals becomes most important. This has been part of today's debate. Among the solitudes in the age group under 45, we find many of those with the weakest income trends between 1986 and 1996. At the same time, we know that a number of children and young people also grow up in families with poor living conditions. That gives cause for concern. It is in itself a problem that we know so little about the distribution of living conditions among children and young people. Today, the Stortinget is taking a decision to provide a major report on the distribution of living conditions for children and young people in Norway. This shows that even after the treatment of the Equalisation message today, there is a lot of work to do to clarify important differences in living conditions, thus making us better able to correct them. At the time of the presentation of the call for proposals by the central government, it was clearly stated that the centre could only ensure a better distribution policy in cooperation with the Workers' Party. This was strongly expressed by several central government councils. The current approach confirms the traditional lines of the policy of distribution. The right-wing parties have their own approach in a number of areas, while the centre and the Workers' Party stand together on a continuous basis. Clear examples are tax policy and housing policy. This is also evident in today’s setting with regard to a number of individual measures aimed at weak groups. It becomes crucial in the future that the centre, not least in fiscal policy, is really willing to operate the distribution policy, because when the same central parties later this week join with the right parties to remove parts of the property tax, it is unfortunately a step in the opposite direction, and it merges into the range of issues where the centre now in opposition has money and solutions they had not when they were in government a few weeks ago. But I choose to assume that the Centre is serious about the formulations of tax as an instrument in the distribution policy that they are working with the Workers' Party about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e900	This is a special day. The smoothing message with its many proposals shall be prepared for follow-up. The notification clearly shows that differences between people have increased in this country from 1986 to 1997. The message has helped to ensure that there is now a broad understanding of the need to put in place measures to facilitate the everyday situation of many people who have fallen behind in the prosperity development of most of us. The message is a basis for countering increasing poverty in Norway. It was the Center Party that initiated an analysis of the differences. During the 1996 chronology debate, the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein put forward a proposal that the late Labour Party government should submit such an analysis. It wouldn't be the Labour Party. Together with the Right and the Advance Party, they rejected the proposal. A big message to clarify the extra differences was a central point in the Grown-up declaration. The message was developed through professional distribution work and discussions with professional and voluntary organisations and individuals. Six departments were involved. It was great for me as a social minister when I was able to present the message on behalf of the government on 25 June last year. The whole government knew how to register the good reception of the message. The Labour Party has changed its mind after 1996. Scissors Gunhild The eye went into a constructive dialogue with the center party. The results of the bulk treatment will now support the message’s five strategies for improving living conditions and a wide range of concrete actions. During the spring of 2001, the government will be given the task of developing an action plan for the follow-up to the Equalisation Notice and its treatment by the Stortinge today. I would like to stress the need to implement as many measures as possible. And especially to the Prime Minister: the central government has now done a preliminary work. We have already started actions that are contained in the message. Now the Labour Party has all the possibilities to follow up. Let me cite some examples with the five main strategies as the starting point: A softer line of work: this year's budget provides room for both wage increases in addition to today's schemes to ensure that more people with reduced working capacity work in their good periods and attempts at community employment services. Both of these measures should be extended in the next year's budget. Better car assistance for disabled people, conversion assistance for people who have had long-term care and trials with lower disability rates than 50 pst. priority should be given. A more social housing policy: this year’s budget provided room for experimentation with different models for the follow-up of the homeless. These are measures that should be expanded. In addition, the government can strengthen the Husbank's role as the Principality Bank. I'm referring specifically to the development of a supplement that can stand in the housekeeper at a change of ownership. Better public services: a range of measures are already in place in this area. When it comes to the disability action plan with its 161 measures, I ask the Government to pay particular attention to proposals that give disabled people access to education and work. The action plan for strengthening social services provides all the results. I look forward to them notifying state-led guidance standards for social assistance will give more added time and space for better follow-up of the individual. And then I'm on a more fine-looking social security network. Proposals for increases in the children's allowance for disabled parents, and the other proposals in place, will be of great value to those in debt. ‘No tax proposals during the treatment of the Equalisation message’ – this newspaper heading from the previous week is a truth with certain modifications. A fairer taxation is the fifth strategy in the message. The background can be found in chapters 7 and 8. I would like to remind you that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party are united in a proposal to ask the Government to present changes in the tax regime that reduce the differences in taxes on labour and capital. I would also like to focus on our remark in the setting where we particularly mention that tax arrangements on dividends should also include taxes on the recipient's hand. It is striking that the Workers' Party could not join these signals, but instead found itself using the column space to explain that tax is a theme. The situation of drug addicts is specific to both the message and the settings. I would like to ask the majority to reconsider whether they cannot support the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left for a big message in the spring of 2001. The anti-aliasing message contains analyses that tell about an alarming development. There is increasing poverty in Norway. In particular, it is important to be aware of measures that may provide better opportunities for the many children who are currently falling out of prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e950	We want to create a solid housing policy. Overall, housing coverage and distribution in Norway are good. Most live well and with acceptable housing costs. But not everyone, as many have been in the debate today. Youth must not be dependent on rich parents or grandparents to get a place to live. Nor can we accept that more than 6,000 people among us are homeless. Many young people, many insured people and others with low incomes have difficulties getting into today's housing market. The same applies to many refugees and immigrants. In particular, we know that the problems are great in Oslo and in our other major cities and press areas. Therefore, housing issues are one of the most important challenges of distribution policy. Besides work and income, housing is one of the cornerstones of people's lives. It calls for solidarity between the young and the elderly, between the city and the country, and between the poor and the rich. A power take-off is required. We need a solid housing policy. The municipalities have two separate tasks in housing policy. They are responsible for the land policy and for the disadvantaged in the housing market. The Social Committee stresses both parts, that is important, and I agree with the Social Committee. The housing aid is an effective and effective instrument for many of the disadvantaged in the housing market. I have noticed that the Committee supports the measures and changes proposed in housing aid. The other limits on housing costs in housing aid are too low in relation to the bout poison level in the big cities. I would therefore like to work to better align the limits of the bout toxins to the level of bout poison in our big cities. The Committee emphasises the special nature of the focus of the message on homeless and other particularly disadvantaged people on the housing market. I am pleased with the attitude of the Social Committee also at this point. These are groups that the Government will prioritise, and we should take a thank-you for these groups now. I've already taken an initiative towards the relevant municipalities and departments, so that we can sit down together to see how we can do a better job for this group. The House Bank must play an active role here through the financing of housing for this group. There is a great need to stimulate increased housing in large cities. This applies not least in Oslo, where the House Bank must be much more present than is the case today. I would therefore like the House Bank to have legislation and economic instruments adapted to this. Stimulating for the benefit of young people and disadvantaged people in Oslo and in other major cities that are press areas is also an important task for the House Bank. With regard to the specific measures the Committee asks the Government to assess, I agree that it should facilitate the increased construction of several rental homes and student housing. We have too few of them today, and increasing the construction of this will be an important and useful supplement to the many owner-occupied dwellings we already have. This also applies, of course, to other groups with difficulty in the housing market. In the case of a national rental housing programme, for which the Committee is in favour, I point out that last year the Grand Duchy of St. report. No 49 for 1997-98, The establishment of housing for young and disadvantaged people, concluded that work was being undertaken to get municipalities to draw up action plans. A number of municipalities are already doing this work. They will, of course, need to include measures to establish more housing for young and disadvantaged people where there is a need for it — and this is the case in many municipalities. I would also like to take the opportunity to inform you that next week I will have a consultation on a solidarity housing policy here in Oslo. I have invited users, developers, municipalities, departments and representatives of relevant organisations. The aim must be that we get ideas, exchange ideas and have a constructive interaction in the further work of finding homes for young people and people with disabilities. In the near future, I will come back with concrete measures to speed up housing, to follow up what is also in the position of the Social Committee, which the Storting will give its support here today. Let me also mention the importance of what others have experienced in relation to work. I am pleased that there is still a majority who will protect the labour market measures, which are important. And it's a very important task for this Government that we can manage to have a labour market that is also available for those who are not a hundred percent healthy all the time. We need that. There are many resources we are now missing by having such a policy that applies in parts of our working life per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e974	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e977	Governments were particularly concerned with the problem of housing, especially in the big cities. The Prime Minister was also concerned about the same thing, and the Minister of Social Affairs has been concerned about it. What makes you fool around is, of course, the problem around Oslo. You have a significant centralization here. A lot of people want to live in Oslo. At the same time, Oslo locks the municipal politicians for, among other things, expanding the boundaries of Marka, i.e. restricting the possibility of building more dwellings. It seems that what you're really most interested in is that people don't have to build their own homes, but that from a political level you have to control what kind of homes are to be built. My question to the Council of State in this area is: What will the Council of State do to Oslo and the other major cities so that it is regulated for residential purposes in the individual municipalities? I also have another question. It is possible that it tends more in the area of the Minister of Social Affairs, but I'm trying anyway. A social benefit for new arrivals is to be introduced to Norway. My question to the Council of State is, what is the concept of 'introduction aid'? Is there going to be a special social benefit that is going to give additional money beyond the system you have today? And will you also follow up with the municipalities, who feel that they are getting too little in connection with the settlement of immigrants and refugees in the municipalities? How do you intend to cover up this part so that the municipalities get to follow up in a proper way also in the case of dwellings?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e986	To answer the last first. The government will arrive early in the autumn at Stortinget with a big message on the integration of immigrants and refugees, as requested by the Stortinget. There we want a thorough review of many of the questions that the representative Nesvik now raised. And one of the things that I think is most important to get in place is how we're going to manage to get our new countrymen away from reception -- it's almost 14,000 who are now sitting there, also many children, and many of them have been sitting there for too long -- and how we're going to manage to get them to live in the municipalities in a proper way, let them get more dignified relationships than is the case today, and also more activity both in the form of education and work. Here the government will come back with concrete proposals through a big message early this fall, and then we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss it. When it comes to housing issues in our big cities, representatives of the Government, including myself, have already had a meeting with representatives of all our big cities, where housing policy has been a topic. We're going to have a new meeting during the fall, and, as I also said, we're going to have a consultation next week, there, among other things. Oslo Municipality is invited, to look at what we can do together to create what I call a solidarity housing policy, which is not the case in many municipalities per. today. This is the way in which both many municipalities and the state operate plot policies. There's also a reason to look at it more closely. In the case of Oslo Municipality, for example, I think there's a lot to do with the housing in Oslo even without touching the Marka border. There are many politicians in this city who believe that there are many thousands of homes without one doing anything about the Marka border, but it's now more a question for local politicians than for us. But there is no doubt that many of those who are the worst in the housing market live in this city, and here too, the majority of the municipality of Oslo has a significant responsibility to do something more than what is the situation per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e993	The majority in the Social Committee refer to the attitude of the Equalisation Communication to the St.meld grand process. No 49 for 1997-98, on housing for young and disadvantaged people, also referred to by the Council of State. And there they point to the need for municipal housing plans for disadvantaged people, and they say that a large part of the House Bank's funding should be channelled to meet the needs of municipalities in such plans. The majority ask the Government to assess just the increase in the Husbank grant framework and the redeployment of public land and property for residential purposes. For the examination of St.meld No. 49, On housing for young and disadvantaged people, the then head of the municipal committee, the representative Sylvia Brustad, was concerned that land in the state’s ownership, e.g. in Pilestret, where the old Rikshospitalet was located, was to be sold cheaply to build homes for young and disadvantaged people. My question is: Does the Brustad State Council agree with the former head of the Municipal Committee, Brustad, that it is still good policy to sell state plots – Pilestrett or others? I would also like to remind you of a group that has not been very prominent in today's debate. I had the pleasure of being present at a housing seminar, a housing meeting, which the United States Confederation had. It was found that a number of people — who work and have their wages — cannot afford to live in more than one room. What does the Council of State intend to do in relation to these?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1002	There is no doubt that, in addition to those who have problems getting into the housing market at all, there are also some people who have poor housing conditions. Examples of this are not least in this city, and of course we have an ambition to do it better for these than is the case today. And then we're into a lot of things: urban renewal, etc. is important in that context, and not least the prices of housing, which means that some people have to live as miserable as someone does per. today. So until the question of the former head of the municipal committee recognizes the municipal minister. I always think it's an advantage when a seaman meets at the door, that one recognizes himself, and I can assure the representative of Østberg that I do too in this matter. Of course, I intend to follow up on what I did as a representative here in Stortinget. Therefore, the government is working on a review of the property and the land on which the government sits, to see if any of it can be done just to make more reasonable and pleasant dwellings for young disadvantaged people, and for those who have no place to live at all. We're going to do that as quickly as possible and come back. I think many people have a responsibility that we haven't been good enough in that area before, and a good example of that is the Rikshospital, where we could have done something. But of course we're going to go through what we have, and see if there's anything to do there, I think that's it. I believe that a fairly simple procedure can be used to get more reasonable and nuggested housing, and the representative of Østberg should not be surprised if the government comes back with anything here, even in the reasonably near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1009	I noticed that a social housing policy had now been replaced by a joint housing policy. Whether there will be any particular difference in content, it will be to wait and see. I agree with the Council of State that it must be important not to rely on rich parents and grandparents to get a place to live. Then I wonder: When is the Workers' Party willing to start looking at a major reform of the House Bank? Because it is true that the House Bank is the main instrument in terms of housing in general, not for those defined as a disadvantaged and social group to be assisted by grants that go through municipalities. The house bank is primarily a bank that is supposed to finance the construction of housing for anyone. New construction of dwellings is the purpose of the House Bank, not a social housing structure. Therefore, by repeated cross-sections, the right has proposed that we change this and make the general contribution of the House Bank to housing policy a financing scheme for the purchase of housing right after the first home purchase – i.e. the first time one buys an owner-occupied dwelling. For example: This can be done through contracts between the banking sector and the Husbanken, for example. get up to 90 pst. coverage. This means that those who really have problems, who do not have rich parents or grandparents, drop top funding, which is the most expensive financing in the market, and which constitutes the difference between a young newly educated academic with rich parents and an unriched parent who can guarantee or provide support. Here the state should have gone in and done it, but it has rejected the Workers' Party. Isn't it time to make a complete conversion of the Husbank? That's my one question to the Council of State. The second question is: Is it now that the Workers' Party has stopped being opposed to building cheap dwellings even below 55 m2, something which the Right has previously proposed and which the Government's predecessor, Opseth, rejected earlier? Are you now going in so that you can build smaller homes for young people as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1019	The answer to the last one is yes. The government is that we should be able to build smaller dwellings when we talk about temporary dwellings, i.e. also less than 55 m2 for young and disadvantaged people who are going to live there temporarily and not permanently. It's already happening to a certain degree per. today. I've seen some of those houses myself. It's not impossible at all. It's so that in this city it's possible to build in height, and I think it's something to go on there to get more speed on it – and it seems the government is doing something about it. So to the question about the House Bank. I don't think the time has come to change the House Bank completely, as the representative Solberg calls for, at least as I understand her. But I have an open mind about whether there are things that can be done differently, and there I like to receive suggestions and ideas about what we can do. I also hear what Solberg's representative here says, and I'm not going to reject that bastant in the first place, but I think it's important, no matter what we make of improvements that there's definitely a need, that we can keep the House Bank in one way like a general bank, but at the same time more focused than the case is today. I think that's a way to go in relation to grant schemes, especially to the groups that I've been talking about in this debate per. today to target even more. I think it is important for us to change parts of the House Bank so that we can use household banking more effectively, for example. in Oslo. I know that at least a majority of the Biggest has been busy with it in several rounds. The house bank is one of the most important tools we have in housing policy, and then we have to make sure that it is possible to use these funds, for example. in Oslo and in part of our other major cities, which is quite difficult per year. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1028	Earlier today, the Prime Minister was asked why the Workers' Party and the Government shortly after they joined the government informed the municipalities of the need to restrict the provision of care for the elderly by regulating it with quota arrangements at county level. Not least on the initiative of the Centre Party, the bulk of the population now declines to such a quota scheme. But when the Prime Minister failed to answer the question of why the allowances were to be introduced, I ask the Minister of State to answer why the Labour Party government wants such quota restrictions on the development of the care of the elderly. Does not the Minister of State see that such a quota policy creates major problems, not least for municipalities, which now have development plans and ambitions for a better ageing policy? So a little bit of housing policy. The Council of State said that it was largely a task for the municipalities to address housing policy. I agree with that to some extent, but it turns out that, among other things. The Workers' Party's large-scale group has discussed this with the Marka and Marka borders, and I want to hear what the Council of State thinks about extending the Marka border for housing purposes if necessary. In parallel with housing for the homeless, both families and lonely, and not least youth housing, there should be another effort to reduce the pressure on housing growth, by developing and establishing relevant study places and workplaces in several parts of the country, so that the pressure for centralisation is not too strong on Oslo and other major cities. And does the Minister of State agree that the housing pressure in central Europe is one of the costs of centralisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1037	I think it would be totally wrong, and we have no opportunity to decide where people are going to live. Of course, some of the explanation for the high prices is that there is pressure in parts of the country. But if we are to discuss district policy and a widespread settlement, there are also many other measures that need to be taken to do something about it, and we can come back to that in other debates. With regard to the issue of the retirement plan, I know that the municipal committee in the vote on the local economy, which will be discussed tomorrow, has so far supported what the government proposes for next year in terms of the number of housing units, but it is stressed that the social committee is not going to deal with the elderly until the fall, and that of course one will also think about it. I want to distance myself from the concept that the Government has put in place a quota scheme for housing units in municipalities and counties. What we're concerned about is trying to ensure a fair distribution between municipalities, and trying to ensure a fair distribution between nursing homes and nursing homes. And there's reason to ask questions about whether we have the balance we should have, when it comes to per. today. When reference is made to figures sent by municipalities, versus what the Government has set up to follow up the ageing plan for next year, there is also reason to believe that there are very many things in the figures from the municipalities, and that is not sure everything is directly related to the old age plan, at least not to what it has been before from the majority, a desire for what should be given priority within the old age plan. But this will give Stortinget plenty of opportunity to discuss in its entirety when the evaluation of the ageing plan is to be discussed for the autumn, and I also expect that there will be a little round of it in tomorrow's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1048	One of the things I'm happy about is the strong focus on housing policy that has been in the debate, and if one reads the setting, it's now a big and broad consensus on describing reality. The Labour Party and SV also agree on the fact that the appropriations for social housing policy have been reduced by 70pst. from 1994 to 1999. It's dramatic, and something else has to be done here. For the time being, the SVs and the Workers' Party roads have been separated in terms of having a goal for this work, where SV says we have to get up to 10 pst. of the housing stock of social dwellings. The EU average is 18 pst., Sweden has 23 pst. and the Netherlands has 37 pst. So we're in jumbo space for this. The second distinction is in the case of money. In the revised national budget, SV suggested that we strengthen the item Housing grants for setting up, repairing and rental housing by 150 million. kr. On the basis of what we agree on, and its commitment now, can the Council of State provide a reasonable explanation that the Workers' Party does not believe that it would be right to initiate this expansion now? We know that the plots are about to run out, they are being sold to the highest bidder, and things are being built completely different from homes for those who need it the most. So to the second question. Stoltenberg said in his statement that a strong public sector is important, that the community should be strengthened and that the solution to this problem exists between the Workers' Party, the Centre and the SV. What in the world is the reason why the Labour Party chooses a scheme for the most important welfare goods through the public sector in the municipal sector together with the Right, and does not ensure that there is something more money for what both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Municipal Council now say is the most important thing? What's the reason for choosing a partnership with those who want to bet less on this than the Workers' Party is now trying to give the impression that they want?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1057	The representative Karin Andersen had a little debate tomorrow on the municipal economy. It is not correct that the Labour Party agrees with the Right at all points in the local economy setting. But I'm not ashamed to agree with the Right that it's important that we manage to ensure the most equivalent service provision around all the country's municipalities, because that's what's the consequence of one point like, among other things. The Labour Party and the Right agree, namely a change in the income system, which we know is the main explanation of differences in service provision between municipalities. Therefore, I am pleased that the Right supports us on that point, so that we get to a completely necessary conversion of the income system, so that we can more effectively ensure a more equivalent service offer around the country. In other areas of this setting, we are together with other parties, and this government is pleased to support those of whom we are supported. So it's true that in some other areas, the Workers' Party separates and the Right Layer. But I am not ashamed of the setting that is on the table, which actually means that the government has got through so to speak. When it comes to the issue of housing policy, I think the Workers' Party and SV have agreed on both the reality description and that there has not been a good enough housing policy to date. And many parties should bear a responsibility for that. Like the majority in Stortinget, we have a strong desire – and will try to put it into practice – to get the building of housing speeded up, so that we can build more homes for young and disadvantaged people. And then, of course, money is also important. We'll have ample opportunity to come back to that when we're going to deal with the state budget for next year. On the basis of a radio look-up earlier this week, I would also like to say that it is not the way it was produced, that the House Bank is completely empty of money, nor is it the case that the situation in the House Bank per. Today will create problems for the builders, even if there may be a certain queue at the tamp of the year. So we'll have plenty of time to deal with that later. I also expect that Andersen and others will have the opportunity to comment on other concrete proposals from this government on the housing side, which will come in good time before that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1068	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1073	As I understand it, the main objective of the Equalisation Communication is to provide the basis for a fair distribution of income and living conditions for all. We do not know that offering meaningful work is the most important means of achieving this goal. It is clear from the notification that the working population has better living conditions than those not in work. In my view, this is an important explanation that disabled people often have a worse living condition than the average population. We have a situation where too many people have to live in a passive social security life, despite the fact that they want to be in work, that they want to make money and thus pay taxes. These are people who often have the skills and working skills to have a full job or a part-time job. The problem, in my opinion, is that society is still too poorly organized to be able to exploit this workforce and to give the people involved a meaningful life. Participation in the labour market means not only income but also self-respect and social contact with other people. In February this year, I had a question in the Questionnaire, where I showed examples that people with disabilities have to stop working because the cost of working travel is too high. I told you about a woman who had to pay up to 400 kroner per month. day to get to its 40 pst. position. Later I have received enquiries from several people who are in a similar situation. In my opinion, such a situation needs to be corrected as soon as possible, so that society can benefit from the labour of disabled people, and I am happy to hear what the Social Minister said today about the work being done in the departments to look at this situation. I have no doubt that better organisation in educational institutions, in workplaces and in society will soon be noticed by the fact that social security expenditure will fall. It must be a good social economy to organise in such a way that beneficiaries can come to work in full or in part and become taxpayers. I have also noticed that many disabled people who want to create their own business claim that they encounter so many problems that they give up. This, I think, is worrying when we know that the number of insured persons is constantly increasing, and what economic challenges this creates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1088	The message and setting contains a number of proposals aimed at helping the most disadvantaged groups in society. The more eye-catching it is that the Progress Party and the Right take the opportunity to suspect one of these groups, namely patients with fibromyalgia. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right say that the increase in the number of non-pensioners, among others. may be due to: ‘a more liberal position on the part of the Social Security Court in the case of an extended undocumented medical diagnosis such as admitting disability on the general low specific diagnosis of fibromyalgia. For these members, it appears that the Social Security Court does not take sufficient account of the Storting's expressed wish in 1991 to bind the admission of disability to a documented long-term medical diagnosis.» What a “diagnosis with a long-term effect” is, I don’t know. I've never heard of that before. But what the Progress Party and the Right here say is that fibromyalgia is an “extended” – whatever it may be – “undocumented” and generally, little specific diagnosis. This is an untimely, unreasonable and false suspicion of sick people, and unlike the diagnosis, the claim is undocumented, yes, it is simply wrong! Fibromyalgia is a chronic disease that can be debilitating, and fibromyalgia is of course a diagnosis in line with other diagnoses. The disease has its diagnostic criteria, and it is not the patient's fault that the Progress Party and the Right do not seem to be aware of this. These parties should update their knowledge rather than insinuate that some patient groups are social security users.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1105	Getting sublimation means we have to have the ability and the willingness to take responsibility for each other. All shall provide by ability, and the resources shall be allocated in such a way that those with the worst starting point are lifted. A society based on shared responsibility and sharing solidarity is also in everyone's own interest. Everyone can fall outside. If we're healthy and we have work, we're fine. If we, for example, are affected by disease over a long period of time, so as to reduce income, we can quickly have problems. For those affected by mental illness, problems may be complex. Many don't have a fixed place to live, they don't have a job, or they lose it, because they're not able to attend regular times every day. The psychiatry escalation plan adopted in 1998 has provided an improvement for these people. Building up better treatment provision and job opportunities are some of the measures to improve the situation of this group. Many of them also need housing if they are to function better. It's a prerequisite for getting work that one also has a good place to live. The Government’s proposal that the pension for psychiatric patients should not be reduced unless the institutional stay lasts for more than one year is a good proposal for improvement for this group. It is also nice that the amount of free money is increased, so that it becomes like for pensioners living in institutions. I'm glad that there's a majority to improve the housing situation for the disadvantaged. When assessing all of the proposals for housing measures in the institution, people with mental disorders must also be seen as a small resident group. Many people with mental disorders are also drug users. This complicates the whole situation because they then need more types of treatment. We have to be aware of this during the work on the psychiatry escalation plan. The smoothing message and setting meet the challenges we face with proposals aimed at smoothing differences. I look forward to an action plan on social and economic security to follow up all the measures contained in the Communication and the proposals that a majority is in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1122	The work on the Equalisation Communication has shown that there is a broad political consensus on the protection of the Norwegian welfare state. There is also a broad political consensus that some of the trends we have seen in recent years related to the distribution of income and living conditions are alarming. A look-up in the VG, at the same time as the Committee's consideration of the extemporaneous notification, referred to a report from the State Institute for Public Health. The report tells of 70,000 children with poor housing conditions and on average poorer health than others and living in families with less than 50 pst. of the average in Norway. An active labour market policy and a social housing policy are important to provide many of these children and other groups who have fallen out worth living conditions that are the Norwegian welfare state. In addition to the necessary efforts in these two fields, it is important that an action plan for the follow-up to the Equalisation Communication, as requested by a majority of the Committee by the Government, looks at how the social security network can be made so fine that it captures the minority that falls outside the overall development of prosperity. Just before the content of the above report became known, Redd Barna concluded that Norway is the world’s best country to live in for children. And there's this slightly schizophrenic situation the Norwegian welfare state is in. On the one hand, it tells of an economic development and, as a result, wealth development affecting the vast majority of people, and on the other hand, of a minority falling outside the general development of wealth. Out of the analysis and evaluations and the committee setting, there are two fundamental issues that, in my opinion, arise in the political debate ahead. The first question is: how are we going to take care of, further develop and continue the Norwegian welfare state and the Norwegian welfare model in a world as fast as ours? And the second question is, how are we going to be able to combat a development with the exclusion and marginalisation of groups that, for some reason, are not or are not able to participate in a social development that is as fast as ours and marked by globalisation and technological development? The Equalisation Communication and its treatment by the Storting will be an important basis for the Norwegian welfare country to continue into a new century. The Workers' Party was both architect and builder when Norway moved from a society of great material differences and deep social divisions to one of the world's best welfare societies in the last century. With the enormous development and change we experience at the dawn of a new century, there is a basis for looking both at the welfare state's architecture and practical solutions. And with the Workers' Party as both architect and building manager of a Norwegian welfare state also in the new century, we will be assured that the two main prerequisites for an active welfare state are being met in the new era, namely a strong public sector and a fair distribution. The employee party's settings and attitudes in the anti-sampling message testify to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1138	It is a well-known case that the biggest living conditions differences in Norway are found in Oslo. It is also a well-known case that government authorities have for many years not taken this properly into consideration. This is why the situation is as it is in the country's capital, which is also governed by a city council that also does not take the necessary action. The influx of central struts is a major need for housing, and Oslo has enough land to take off. It is the funding that is lacking, especially for rental homes and for young people in the start-up phase. We are facing great challenges for the worst and the many homeless in Oslo. We cannot leave this to the market. It is precisely because the market has not functioned, that we have as big problems as we actually have today, with dramatically low housing construction and explosion in housing costs. We need to reintroduce social housing, and we need tax and financial arrangements that favour collective solutions. Lack of active public intervention over many years has resulted in increased disparities and an increasing proportion of the population falling outside the ordinary housing market. The major cities need more rental and low-deposit housing, and therefore the House Bank's rules need to be changed. Previous debates have shown that we have a fairly common description of the situation. There has been a lot of talk and little action. The measures are missing and urgent. It is therefore very uplifting what the Prime Minister said in today's debate that we have too few reasonable rental homes, and called for the use of more loans and grants in the House Bank to stimulate housing in the big cities. It is necessary to amend the rules of the House Bank and it is necessary to increase the framework considerably, not just transfers within the framework. And so it's urgent to get started. I also found it very positive that the municipal minister promised to adapt the Husbanken's legislation and the financial instruments for the big cities. In particular, a more liberal cost framework is important. I have great expectations for the meeting that was announced about the joint housing policy in Oslo, as the minister mentioned, and I hope that we will now get both local and central authorities to take a firm stand for the housing situation in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1151	I would like to say that I agree with Prime Minister Stoltenberg when he was in a line change with Mr Bondevik's representative, among others. to say that defrosting policy is about all the areas of policy. We don't get a fairer distribution by discussing it in Stortinget. Smoothing is a lot about money and political will to do something about the injustices that still exist in our society. When the fight for welfare goods started, the movement of workers and trade unions stood entirely alone. At the time, there wasn't much support to get from social summits and church men, but we did it. An old thug once told me that he had been through two world wars and experienced peace. It was big. But he said in the same spirit that for him and many older people, the security of everyday life that came with the introduction of popular peace, was the most important welfare offer ever. We are proud of our social security system that provides everyone with a guarantee and security under sickness, disability and old age. Of other major reforms, I also want to look back proudly at the fact that we got a work environment law that secured workers against what many experienced as exploitation. The labour movement has been in favour of a school reform that has given everyone the right to education. We called it a single school and we're glad that now it's no longer the parents' wallet that decides whether our children and young people can get a solid education. Our society is now changing dramatically. The old professions are on their way out, and new ones are being established. Jan Petersen said in this debate that the greatest difference goes between those who have work and those who do not. I agree. Working for all is the most important measure for a fairer distribution. All those who fall outside of modern professional life must have a chance. Most people want to work, most people have a residual ability to work, only they get the chance. Therefore, we need labour market measures that can give more opportunities to adapt to the new labour market. If all the political parties in this room were concerned with defrosting in practice, not just with beautiful words in a message, there would be a broad consensus to strengthen labour market measures. It's through equal opportunities to a meaningful life we best reduce the differences. Work is the best medicine to fight exclusion and isolation. Working for everyone is a fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1169	This debate has clearly shown that there are major differences between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy in terms of the willingness to smooth out differences in society and to do something for the poorest. The working party doesn't think, as the right side does, that if you lower taxes and taxes for the richest, it becomes the poorest. The Labour Party believes rather the opposite, that tax relief will help to increase differences – unless the reliefs are designed to bring them the lowest wage and the lowest wealth, but it does not want the right side. We have heard over and over again today that the dividing lines go between those who are at work and those who are outside the labour market. It should be possible to do something about it, especially at a time when in many areas there is a shortage of labour and we have to pick up workers from abroad. Then it is completely wrong to do what the central parties do in the revised national budget, to cut 150 million. in appropriations for labour market measures. This means that 3,000 fewer long-term unemployed are offered education or training so that they can get to work. I know an older, patient lady in Halden who gets very happy today. She has lived in much of her adult life abroad with her husband, who is now dead. That's why she has an old-age pension of only $2,500 a month, and she needs social assistance to make up for it. It means a lot of trips to the social office during the year, because social assistance is not something you get continuously. A few years have passed since she took up the problem with me, which in turn took up the matter further with the then social minister. That is why I am very happy that this matter is now going to be settled. And I'm surprised to read in the mood that the Advance Party and the Right are opposed to short-stay pensioners in Norway getting additional support so that they basically avoid going to the social office during their lifetime. This probably doesn't apply to many, but it means so much to them. Finally, when opinions come from this pulpit, such as that there are groups who view the social office as their payroll office, as the representative Nesvik of the Progress Party said, it is an attitude that the Labour Party is taking a great deal of distance from.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1182	I believe to remember that a former health minister in one of his health policy statements here in the Chamber stated that poverty is all the mother of the disease, and I think he is quite right in that. Poverty and inequality are the starting points for the smoothing message. I want to include one thing in the public offer that has not been focused on today, namely that with a good health offer, with particular emphasis on health promotion and prevention. It's an important equalization factor. This is not self-evident, but requires public initiative. As far as primary health care is concerned, I would like to focus particularly on it because, in particular, it has close contact with the population and can follow the children from birth and through growth. I think it might make sense that we were looking at a similar scheme for the follow-up of the oldest in our population. So a comment to the municipal minister, who says she wants to reserve herself against the term "quota regime". I stand here with a letter from the county council and the county board in Hedmark, saying that the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, has ‘developed state-owned investment frameworks’ and that from 1 May 2000, Hedmark has been allocated 450 units. It means, in my opinion, that this is about quotas. So a note to the representative who said that the Workers' Party has been the architect and builder of welfare policy in Norway. Such talk shall one listen to, for it comes from the heart. But I have to remember that there have been other social reforms that have emerged in this country, which have actually been introduced under regimes other than the Workers' Party. The government Away introduced popularism 30 years ago, and it's one of the biggest social reforms we've had in the country – but that's not more than about. 30 years ago. What the dissipation message now can be, if we want, is the beginning of a policy and a reform that makes the differences less for those who feel the differences that are so hopeless that they are an obstacle to being acceptable. I believe that there have been some disparaging comments in this debate over the years, such as the representative Halvorsen, among others. was in the room. We have heard, when we have noted that there were differences in Norway, that we have driven crisis maximisation and black paint. However, I believe that today’s flashback message shows that there is a need to focus on some things and initiate measures, such as: the Equalisation Communication describes and that there is a need to follow-up on this in the action plan requested by the majority today. It will be in the wake of today's anti-dithering communication, and may be the beginning of a social reform policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1195	I would like to say to the representative of Gløtvold that this communication underlines emphatically that Norway has not become a third-party society, which both the representatives of the Central Party and the representatives of the SV have had to do for years. And we're going to be happy that the situation is not like that. There have been few comments on my claim in my speech earlier that most of the public welfare transfers go to healthy and economically active people in this country. In fact, we are in the situation in this context that almost the entire Norwegian population has been disrupted by weak groups that need the support of society. And it's clear that the more people get into these groupings, the less they get back to those who are really weak and need support. It has to be pretty obvious. Like the representative from the Right, Erna Solberg was, well, I think our welfare arrangements are too little individualized, they're more group practice. So I'm going to bring up one thing that no one has mentioned so far, and I don't think it says anything about it in the message. That's how the weak, the needy, are met in our auxiliaries. Of us who are in the social committee, I think it's not just me who get regular reports of gross insensibility, and in fact a lack of people's manner as helpful meetings in the outreach facility – it's social office, social security office and labour market office. I think it is important that both the Minister for Social Affairs and the other ministers responsible for these areas look at this, ensure that those who are weak, helpless, with their hats in hand, are met in a humane, good way and are not suspected to the extent that many remain in our public utility. This is a problem that needs to be addressed. I don't have a recipe on how to do something about it, but usually it's like having normal, real folk, you're also able to meet people in a proper way, and not suspect, as a lot of people do, and especially those at the bottom of the rank ladder, for example, our drug addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1206	My first 5 minutes went very fast, so that's a few supplements. First of all, I share Alvheim's emphasis that the individual must be met with respect and respect, and I think it is uplifting that the emphasis is coming from the Progress Party. It's true that representatives from that particular party are involved in grouping people according to a little bit different values than respect and respect. So I think that's good. I noticed that the Progress Party took a distance from a proposal that led to the issue of a special social welfare scheme for people with short butids in Norway. There is a proposal that I hope the Government will follow up. I know that there will be too many elderly people in this country; both elderly people who have been out of Norway and who have moved back, who do not have social security rights, and immigrants who have too short butids in Norway to have raised the right to social protection. Then I find it necessary to point out the basis in the Department for a holistic approach when it comes to a better treatment provision and a stronger after-protection for drug addicts. I do, because I think there's a contradiction between what the committee on one side stresses when it comes to a more holistic approach, and the great work that Sverre Nesvåg did in his selection, where there is a setting that resulted in a number of valuable hearing statements. That's what we think is a good basis for a big message about a more holistic follow-up of drug users. We in the Central Party look forward to the follow-up plan to be prepared by the Social Minister and her warning of periodic reporting, and we look forward to the follow-up of a more social and solidarity housing policy by the Mayor. Smoothing is now at the top of the agenda. The center game will help you to see that the analysis of this message will also be the background for other things in the Storting. We support the Workers' Party's initiative for a growing-up report on living conditions for children and young people, but at the same time we know the need for once to stress the importance of the rapid implementation of the measures in the message specifically targeted at children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1221	I have asked for the floor to comment a little bit on the change of line with the Prime Minister for a while back. I allowed myself to ask the Prime Minister, when he is talking about improving the situation of the weakest people, who are lifting the weakest ones up and thereby improving the cohesion, about why the Government is doing just in that area cut. I asked why one cannot guarantee that there should not be a lack of money for hospitals in Norway in terms of exploiting the labour resources that we still have. I asked why the government had gone in to give instructions to the state to create a quota system for the implementation of the parental care plan, where 12,000 places that the municipalities want to expand are to be removed. I experienced it as relatively embarrassing that a prime minister who instead of answering questions went back to counter-attacking the Progress Party and again came with fairy tales about our party program, which I have corrected many times. I'm better off knowing what our party program is all about than what the prime minister is. Despite the fact that we have now three times presented alternative state budgets, he is trying to tell fairy tales about what our policy is. I think it was unprofessional. I don't think it's right for a prime minister who will be taken to be responsible, to deal with concrete questions that concern much of the Norwegian people, in such a way. I would appreciate if the Minister of Social Affairs could answer why they have gone in to cut down 12,000 posts in the care of the elderly, and why now, in the revised budget, they have gone in to increase the proportion of specialist health care and sick transport, if that is the way to help those who are the weakest. I would also like to draw attention to an article in the Newspaper today, page 2, where the leader of the Bestum Workers' Party on our proposal for granting UMTS licences, among others. writes: ‘When a society distributes such a licence without paying for it, we hand out a resource of which there is scarcity to capital-intensive players who have a good willingness to pay. It is good socialist policy to ensure that the capitalists pay for the benefits they get from the community. It is not surprising, therefore, that socialist and social-democratic governments in Europe now allow the capitalist telecom actors to pay for themselves properly when they receive new licences.’ He criticises the Norwegian Government for not doing the same. So the Progress Party proposes this. We will collect funds through auction here instead of cutting into the goods of nurturing elderly and sick people, as the Government does. And what is the reaction of our Prime Minister? He calls it what other countries' governments do, monopoly money. I think the prime minister should soon tighten up on what he's going to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1237	I think it has been a very good and interesting debate in all respects. I just want to comment on a few things. In an hour's conversation with the press, I stressed that one of the biggest challenges, as I saw after working on the announcement, is the housing problems in Oslo. In particular, they also hit our new countrymen, who tend to want to settle down here, they hit the sons and daughters of the districts, and they all hit them in a new generation that has no rich or prosperous parents. In a statement I came to say that increased housing construction actually also had to be more important than the Marka border. I didn't say it for no reason. I said that because I wanted to focus more on one of the biggest challenges we face in terms of distribution policy. But as a result, I have received a lot of enquiries – positive enquiries – for putting housing on the agenda. I'm now very pleased with the commitment we see, that it's being arranged for the construction of multiple dwellings. I am very pleased with the Commissioner's clear statements today, and know that she is concerned that we need to have a more solid housing policy. Then I would like to comment on proposal No. 17, from SV, which ensures the disabled coverage of transport costs. These are actions of which the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government are concerned and working. That is why I would also like to signal that the Labour Party will vote in favour of the proposal. Finally, the cooperation we have had with the centre and SV in this setting has been very constructive. There is agreement on the analyses and on the description of reality. But it's also easy to be for something that's good for others. Finally, I have only a pious wish, and it is that we are also able to gather on a responsible discovery for the many new, good actions that we want to achieve through the processing of this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1250	It was an interesting invitation from the representative Eyeågen to the centermates, and it's going to be exciting to see how the containment will happen in the future. I just hope it's not going to be the traditional way, via increased props. I will have to make a comment in connection with the debate that has been surrounding the said letter from the Social Minister to the country's county councillors and county councillors. The letter was sent to these people on 19 May, and it was probably Brustad State Council that took away the fact that this was a quota. I have that letter, and there is even a table of how many places were planned in the individual counties, how many were consumed per. 1 May, and in addition, how many places the county could distribute further, including to my own home country, which had planned well over 3,000 new nursing homes and homes, and was told by the department that they could be allocated well 1,800 seats. If this isn't the quota, I don't know. That is why I sent a letter to the Council of State on 31 May asking for this letter to be withdrawn pending the committee's examination of the evaluation of the elderly plan. Last week, on June 7, I got a letter back from the Council of State, where there's nothing to do about it. But when you read the contents, it's clear that you don't want to withdraw the letter. But now it was sent in the morning on the same day that the municipal committee had its meeting, so then we'll see how it goes forward. So I just want to make a little comment on what has to do with the sick conditions in Norway. I would like to draw particular attention to things that have peculiarities, among other things. medicines to do. A number of people, minimum pensioners and other sick people — mainly chroniclers — have high costs of medicine. And a number of people are actually in the situation that they have to choose if they're going to buy dinner one day, or if they're going to spend their money on medicine. And this is primarily because of the great excesses of medicine. Then it's announced that there will be a self-interest 2. This is something you're now considering. I want the Social Minister to answer when we can expect to have such a case presented to the Stortinget, so that we can introduce that roof and shield the chroniclers in the future. For this is a proposal that the Progress Party has promoted on a number of occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1266	Yes, this is a long day's journey towards a hopefully soon end. I agree with the representative Erna Solberg that what has been most interesting and valuable about this communication is the debate around it, and not so much what it says. For what is proposed in the Communication does not solve the fundamental problems we face in reducing poverty. And it's been said a lot. However, I am very uncertain as to whether what I have heard is the basic redeeming words. But at least that's a lot of good will, and that's a good start. The most important thing is to give the individual good opportunities in life, and to create a better school for everyone. It's a paradox that the left-hand side is talking hot about Difference Norway, while they're countering suggestions that would solve the huge problem of almost every five students leaving school without being able to read and write properly. It is one of the biggest challenges we have to solve, in order to prevent widespread poverty in Norway. Education policy is absolutely crucial in the debate on welfare and social policy. The Prime Minister more than suggested that the Right is not for a public sector. It's directly wrong. Right will have a strong state, a strong public sector, but if it is to be strong, it must be smaller and not universal. And it has to focus on the core tasks, like school, health and education, and those that need the most help. It is uplifting that one worker party representative after another, including the prime minister and government councillor, takes self-criticism and admits that several have fallen outside the Labour Party regime, and that they have shown indifference. Yes, it has been the purest hours of recognition and recognition from the Workers' Party. And recognition is, as we know, the most important thing in relation to something that can be done. But at the same time they attack the Right to camouflage their own inadequacy. It's being seen through by everyone. The working party is now allowed to clean up its own house and refurbish it before attacking others. And if they need help with cleaning and furniture, right will do. They just need architectural help, and they're going to get it for free.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1279	In the case of the last representative, Sjøli said, there must be an forgetting from the representative when she says that the left-hand side will not be betting in school. On the contrary, SV and Right agree on the comments about the school in the setting, and SV has a school effort that far exceeds the one in the Right. So there I think right is going to find someone else to use if they need it. When the Minister of Social Affairs answered my question instead of why the rich state could not join in and promise those who are the poorest, we got the old answer: competitiveness, balance, order in the economy and that something is more important than anything else. We've heard that before. So it wasn't the most important thing to give to those who actually only have a few thousand copies to deal with this month, so that they might be able to buy a Christmas press for Granny. Because that's what this is all about. Is it not so important that it must be possible to get a few dollars from the rich state to ensure that this is done? I have to say, I don't understand the social minister's commitment to this. Is it true that if social welfare beneficiaries in this country get an economy that is viable, will it be completely destructive to the finances of the country? It is not possible for me to understand that it should be so. Because it's possible to re-distribute. And it has, among other things, The Prime Minister has hosted the pulpit here today and said so. This is a question of redistribution, and then we have to do it. So to unemployment, which many people have talked about. The Prime Minister said that the bridge back to work is action and training. I fully agree that SV fully agrees with this. But then we have to bet more than today, and some of the problem today is that people are long-term unemployed. It means that they're actually going to be available for a very long time, and most of them are young. Everyone knows what it does to people. You lose your skills, you lose your sea life, you lose your ability to think that you're doing something, and you lose your desire to meet people. A lot of people hide at home and dare not do anything at all. Therefore, SV promotes a radical proposal, yes, well, but a much shorter deadline has been set to ensure that when one misses that deadline, there should be a right to empowerment or action. That's the most active thing we can put in. Everyone says that they think it works, and why do we have to wait until many people have destroyed their marine life and the skills they had, before we start building them up again? Wouldn't it have been much trickier to start at a long earlier time, so that we were sure that those who are now available could go into any of the workplaces where people are needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1291	I feel safe about one thing, and that's that the Prime Minister is a popular man. Otherwise, the attacks on him in his absence would not have been so strong. I'm very pleased with that, and I'm not going to defend him. On the other hand, I'm going to say in relation to what you cover the budget, that it's clear that if you're going to get $10 billion from UMTS concessions, it's not going to be built much across the country. I don't think that's a good way to balance the budget. Then they asked about this with allowances in old people's homes. The Minister of Local Affairs has already said something about it. We have set a framework for the number of nursing homes and nursing homes to be expanded. That's what Stortinget's been up to. If we're going to make sure that each municipality gets built up enough, that it's not going to be the municipalities that get to the mill first, that get the most, we have to make a distribution, no matter how big a frame is. That's what we're about to do. Otherwise, I'm going to come back to that very question in the debate on the municipal economic proposition tomorrow. Of course, in the case of a proportion of sick transport, there is one way to find a cure within your own budget. As far as I know, transport costs are also included in the ceiling that applies to everyone, so that those who are the most charged do not increase the cost. It also applies to medicines on blue prescription to chronically ill. There's a thank you when you get to a certain degree of exploitation. Then there are questions about the local economy and the social rates. I think it would be better to enable municipalities to solve their problems than to create fixed state rates for social support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1304	I've noticed what the social minister says about these quotas. There is an allowance at the moment when a number of statesmen are informed that fewer grants will be awarded to fewer sites than the ones requested by the municipalities. I have a question for the Minister of Social Affairs that is about the relationship between government and greatness, because I also think that is an essential element of this particular debate. How can it be that the Government is promoting a big message of follow-up to the plan of old age, without telling you that you want to set up a quota system, without telling the statesmen that by 15 June they will determine what number of places each named municipality can expect to have, and yet send a letter to the statesmen about it? Why didn't the Government come to the Storting first and announce that they had this intention unless the Storting had a different opinion? It is the common practice for such large things as following the old-age care plan, as the Workers' Party of the majority of the population was forced to present some years ago, when changes to the local authorities' assumptions are being made, where municipalities are planning, acquiring land and seeing how they can put it into practice. And then, all of a sudden, with three weeks' notice for the statesmen, you're going to give a stop order, without this being announced to the Stortinge for approval before you do. Could the Minister of Social Affairs be so kind as to make a brief statement now as to what is the position in the department towards the Stortinget, when, as here, it seems to be going behind the Stortinget, sending a stop order even without making a big point of it in the message promoted to the Stortinget? Is it the case that we have to expect that we now have to follow closely the reports on letters sent out by the Minister for Social Affairs and the Department, in order to be sure that we do not go behind the Storting on important social policy issues and care issues for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1311	Karin Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1314	First of all, it's a fact that a nearly unanimous social committee, except for the Workers' Party, has told the Government to withdraw this letter and follow the plans. So that case should at least be fine. When it comes to enabling municipalities to provide a real level of social assistance, the social minister and I don't disagree about it, but then we have to do it. There is NOK 11 billion in deficit in the municipal sector. The working party could have been better placed for the municipal sector until next year if they had chosen to cooperate with SV and the centre parties on the municipal economy. Instead, they chose to cooperate with the Right. The situation is that there has been a small rise in the local economy, but very close enough for this to do something from or to the social aid rates. That's the problem. Here there will be a fight between those who are poor and have too little money instead of making this a redistribution between those who have much and those who have little.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1321	In connection with St.meld. No 50 for 1996-1997 Action Plan for the care of the elderly, a framework for development was set up. It was done by Stortinget on a proposal from the Workers' Party. That framework must be distributed in some way. It can be distributed by treating applications continuously until you reach a ceiling. It can also be distributed in other ways. We have chosen to send a letter to the county councillors who manage this work together with us, so that we can ensure a fair distribution between municipalities, a reasonable distribution between hospitals and nursing homes, and that there is still a care reform and not just a housing reform. That is the background for the letter of 19 May. We have said in the same message, which is to be discussed for the autumn, that it is possible that we may need to increase the estimate somewhat. We'll get far clearer when we know how the distribution works. I'm going to come back to the numbers and the rest around the seniority initiative that is addressed in the municipal economic proposition, in the debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1332	Also Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1335	The reason I'm teasing on these things is because it's the social committee that's run over what's going on, among other things. The age plan to do. My question was why it was not possible to wait with this assessment before sending that letter until the social committee had considered the evaluation. What made it so urgent to stop this and send out the quota letter, when you knew that you had sent a case to the social committee to deal with it? That's the problem. That is why I was also a little surprised at the letter that I got back again, where there is nothing to say that you would consider it in that context. In fact, the evaluation suggests that, among other things. there are three alternatives for which the Committee and the Storting may agree, either to continue, expand or stop it, as it stands. That is why we should have clearly waited for the evaluation to be made. I hope the council can signal here that she will. If not, it is as I said in the municipal committee tomorrow that it will be stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1342	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3650]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1356	The attitude of the Social Committee that the Stortinget is dealing with today on the assessment of the requirement of a certificate of good conduct for health professionals to protect children from contact with health professionals who are targeted, accused or convicted of sexual abuse against children is a very serious social problem. There is reason to commend the proposers for putting an important issue in focus. It is also enjoyable, but not surprising, that a joint committee in the setting says that this is a problem issue there is every reason to take it seriously. In Document No: 8:41 points to the provisions of the Kindergarten Act and the Training Act and asks for similar provisions to be considered in the context of the Health Care Act. The Committee agrees with this and unanimously recommends that the Stortinget take decisions asking the Government to present an assessment and a legislative proposal on how to ensure that children seeking health care do not encounter health professionals who have committed sexual assaults against children or unauthorised persons. A unanimous committee further asks the Government in an appropriate form to provide a broad assessment of how children and other particularly vulnerable groups face the public and/or private sectors, in addition to the health and growth sectors, are to be guaranteed against abuse and legal certainty and security. The background to the second part of the proposal is that it is not that there are only violations and crimes of a sexual nature that make it timely to ask questions about fitness in relation to, among other things. to be responsible for children in e.g. a public health institution. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Right and the Progressive Party, points out that there is a ‘evident need to discuss which sectors and areas might be appropriate to require police certification’, and that ‘there should be questions as to whether other criminal acts should also disqualify for close and close contact with children, be they in public or private activities’. Here, the majority think of cases such as gross violence, sexual assaults against persons other than children, activities subject to provisions relating to pornography, etc. I must admit that I have not quite understood why not the Right Party and the Advance Party support the majority at this point in the vote. But at the same time, I am pleased that the same parties support the proposal which is just about to address this whole issue. This year, hundreds of years have passed since the book The Child’s Century was published. The book’s title, The Child’s Century, has often been used for the century we left, because the children’s situation has received a completely different focus in this century than in the previous one. ‘To raise a child — that means to carry a soul in your hands’, wrote the Swedish author of the book, Ellen Key, and this is a formulation that really explains to us the responsibility that we all have for children to meet a society of security and legal certainty. Examination of Document No by the Committee 8:41 and the Government’s further consideration of the issues raised by the Committee’s proposals is an important – albeit small – contribution to providing children in our society with greater security. At the same time, I would like to stress that overall the situation of children is determined by the quality of the society they are part of. That is why the debate we have just concluded on the previous case is probably more important in terms of child safety and safety, but that does not mean that the issue we are discussing is irrelevant. On the contrary – as I said at the outset, it is very important. If we are to be able in some way to characterize our society as child-friendly and our time as a time when children's interests are also at the centre, we must protect children from such cruel experiences and actions as the proposal in Document No. 8:41 is concerned, and which, through the examination of the proposal today, we are trying to build some new defence works against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1387	It is very gratifying that the Court’s proposal to assess the requirement of a certificate of good conduct for health professionals to protect children from contact with persons intended, accused or convicted of sexual assault against children is now supported by the entire Committee. Thanks should be directed not only to us as proposers, who have raised the issue, but also to the Committee, and in particular to the case-rapporteur for a quick and good handling of the matter. The direct reason why some of us from the Right have promoted this proposal is, in fact, an enquiry by a mother who has seen that today's legislation – it will also apply to the new Health Care Act, although it has not yet come into force – does not prevent a man who is twice convicted of sexual abuse against children from training himself as a doctor and now practices as a doctor. And when we know how vulnerable children are, how powerful doctors and other health professionals are dealing with all patients, but perhaps especially children who are particularly vulnerable, it's important that we address this problem and try to do something about it. The overall objectives of the proposal have been the objectives of the proposers. But we realize that it is not as easy to introduce such a provision into the health care system as it has been in kindergartens and schools, because the health care system accounts for so many more than children, and not everyone working in the health care system comes into contact with children. These problems of demarcation are therefore the reason why we did not have the right to propose a legislative amendment, but ask the Ministry to assess this, clarify and make possible various proposals for demarcations and make a legislative proposal as soon as possible. For us, it is important that the legislative proposal now supported by the Committee should not be drawn out unnecessarily by including other groups and other areas of society where it may be appropriate to consider similar things, because it will probably lead to winter and spring before we get this matter back. That is why I am particularly pleased that the Committee has divided its position into two points. And that's in it, I think, that the Minister of Health is expected to come back with a proposal on point 1 quite quickly, while point 2 necessarily has to take longer. But I would like to stress that the Right and, to the extent, the Progress Party is behind both points in the draft decision. When – at least in the case of the Right – we have not participated in the section in question mentioned by the case-rapporteur, it is among other things. taking into account paragraph 2. But at least I have to say that I am personally very much in doubt about people who, in a single case, have committed a – albeit serious – criminal act, to be excluded from having positions where they can come into contact with children or other orphans. For example, most of them killed. What is happening in this country is, of course, the consequences of an affect situation. And imagining that we're going to exclude these and others, giving them a job ban in relation to being able to train and work in working situations where they have to do with children or other incompetence, I don't feel a need to get an investigation. But anyway, we're behind point 2, because we don't want to argue that you're looking at this in a larger context. But we hope, as far as point 1 is concerned, to get an assessment and a bill on how to prevent children from being exposed to health professionals who have violated them, and expect it to come as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1398	The representative Annelise Höegh said so much of what I was going to say. The reason I took the floor was that, after the statements by the rapporteur, one could sit with the impression that the Progress Party would go against paragraph 2. It is with regard to the comment that the Progress Party is outside, and then we assume, among other things. wish to focus on point 1 in order to bring it quickly to the agenda with the certificate of good repute. So we hope at least that the Minister of Health can get ahead of this work so that we can see if there is the opportunity to solve this problem in view of the children's meeting with the health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1403	I allow myself a brief comment related to the question of how the setting should be perceived in terms of points 1 and 2. There I share the opinion of the representative, Mr Höegh, that paragraph 1 of the proposal for a decision can hopefully be dealt with more quickly than the more extensive paragraph 2. When it comes to the question of whether there was a minority who did not join this point of also taking up a discussion about relationships that were not just about sexual crimes, it says, after all, in the introduction to the remark that it is ‘to engage in a discussion’ that we are talking about, not to take a stand per. Today on how to deal with it – it’s doing a discussion. Otherwise, I also agree with the more fundamental considerations that concerned the relationship to the right to apply for work, the professional prohibition issue, etc., which was implicitly a bit in the introduction to Annelise Höegh. But I am pleased that the majority of the committee has supported both the justification and the proposal, but I am of course most pleased that the whole committee supports the proposal to deal with that issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1412	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3652]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1426	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1440	The Public Service Act does not apply to the Stortinget, the Riksrevisionen, the Stortinget Ombudsman for the administration and other bodies in the Stortinget. However, on 23 November 1998, the Storting asked the Presidentship of the Stortinge to draw up rules on publicity for the Stortinge and Stortinge bodies. The background was a comment from the Justice Committee in Innst. S. No 21 for 1998-99 on the principle of public disclosure in the administration. Among other things, he said: The Committee that: ‘there is no general need to exempt the Storing from the principle of disclosure’. The Committee felt that if the Storting were also subject to disclosure rules, it would give an important signal from the legislator on the importance of the principle of disclosure. The appointment of the Supervisory and Constituent Committee today promotes rules on the disclosure of documents to the Stortinge, on changes in the instructions to the Administrative Ombudsman of the Stortinge, on a provisional public disclosure instructions to the Riksrevision and on additions to the instructions of the Defence Ombudsman and Civil Protection Officers. The setting is unanimous. Therefore, I do not want to go into what document disclosure in the Stortinget and its bodies will mean, but only briefly indicates that the Committee agrees with the provision of its own legislation and amended instructions. These may then form the basis for testing and launching. And as the committee says: ‘If any legislative issues and problems arise, the Committee is prepared to consider amendments to the rules on public access to documents.’;» I would like to stress the Committee’s premise – which I believe is quite important to the Committee – that ‘Getting practices the principles of the Public Service Act as far as possible’. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1461	It is a unanimous view among all the parties on the Stortinget that the principle of publicity and publicity shall also apply to the organs of the Stortinge. It is also the case that there is a consensus that this must be adopted for the Grand Duchy in its own rules on the publication of documents for the Grand Duchy, because the public law is the law of the Grand Duchy. Today, the Public Administration Act is and, as you know, the Stortinget is not administration, we are the country's legislative assembly. I have found it necessary to write my own comment in the setting, and that's because I fear that you're not consistent enough, and go far enough, in terms of the Storting's practice of the principle of disclosure. It is central if you are to have the opportunity to implement the principle of publicity, that you have a proper record keeping, and that it is carried out continuously for all the committees at Stortinget and for the administration of Stortinget – there is a different practice here on the house per. today. And it's not very strong when it says in the document that's being processed, that you have to record more continuously. I wanted a greater pressure on that point. It is also the case that the principle of disclosure means that the bodies which receive a document, as another body has stamped ‘avoided disclosure’, are obliged to assess for themselves whether it is to be made public, they cannot hide behind the assessment of other bodies. At this point, too, there is a somewhat weaker wording in the legislation that is now adopted for Stortingen than is the case in the Public Administration Act. It is also the case that the Storting does not undertake to deliver documents received by Storting as a copy. And there's some rational reason for that, because the Storting receives a huge amount of mail in copies from other parts of the administration and from other types of organizations. But yet, this is a very important principle to follow if you're going to be able to fulfil the principle of disclosure, and I think this may be a weakness. With these comments I join the setting that exists. I believe that it is very important that the Storting should start this work. I think, however, that there may be things that have to go along along the way, but you don't quite know how this works, whether it's sufficiently open and public, until this has worked for a while. And then I actually think that the experiences that others outside the house are reaping when they ask for access to documents – which the press might do – will show to what extent the Storting actually manages to fulfill the principle of publicity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1474	It has been called for a long time that the Storting makes use of the principle of publicity for the Storing and the bodies of the Storing. When that has not happened, it is because it has lacked the necessary political will, and it is also because there has not been sufficient commitment in this important area. That is why it is historic when, with full support today, we introduce the principle of publicity for the Storting. I fully agree with the rapporteur on the matter, who said that the Committee's intention is that the principle of publicity be practised as far as possible – and that is very long. In these days it's been 30 years since the public release was adopted, and it's quite appropriate that we now move on and introduce the principle of the Storting. In the summer of 1997, the left presented what was called the ‘Bigningsmeld 0’. The background was that for two and a half years, the then workers’ party government had failed to promote the public announcement of the Stortinge, despite the fact that the announcement had repeatedly been called for to be heard by the Stortinge. The left handed out an alternative deposit message. One of the elements that was in it was that the principle of disclosure should be introduced for the Storting, and the Left promised that we would work on that issue in the coming period. This was followed up in the central government's public announcement, but one concluded that it was natural that Stortinget himself had the right of initiative and the authority in this matter. Against this background, I took the initiative together with the then parliamentary leaders of the Christian People's Party and of the Central Party to a letter sent to the Presidency of the United Kingdom in May 1998, asking for a regulation to be made for publicity on the Stortinget. The Judicial Committee followed up on the examination of the communication of the public, as referred to earlier in the debate today. On the basis of this commitment from the Left, it's clear that it's very pleasing to us that we're now getting this impact, and it will mean greater transparency in areas where it's so far been unclear. And it has a very important signal effect when the legislator in this way introduces the principle of disclosure also for its own business. There hasn't always been a strong commitment in this area. When the Left, together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in 1998, sent letters to the Presidency, the magazine «STAT & styring» had a round to various politicians where they obtained comments. Carl I. Hagen said it this way: we're too transparent, but we'll look at this proposal more closely before we take a stand on it. "In particular, it may involve increased costs," said Carl I. Hagen. And Bjørnstad said, this is a great matter, it's too early to take a stand. "We must at least not get there that ordinary people are alarmed from turning to the Storting," said Vidar Bjørnstad. Just the reasoning about this is that it's complicated and difficult, that it could scare people from turning to the Storting, that it could cost them, is the background that many have hesitated to reach the conclusion that is currently fully agreed. So today we're going to blow this limit, and it should have been done a long time ago. This option means many steps in the right direction, and one should not underestimate the pass through that occurred today. But there are some areas where you should go further, and where conditions should be different. I'm going to stick to the points SV makes in their comments. I believe that there are areas that may prove to be of such a nature as to require further clarifications in the legislation. There is also an opportunity to come back to this, because a reasonable evaluation of this legislation has been carried out in about a year. I also see that someone expects someone to have the assistance of legal expertise plus people from the press's organisations. I am enough of the opinion that such expertise and such input could be of benefit to the committee already in the phase that one has now left behind, and that one at some point might have taken advantage of the potential for improvement that lies here. But don't do that. The outside support will be a few in the next round. When the Judicial Committee examined the disclosure, one said that document publicity was important in order to monitor the work and input of the stakeholder organisations in relation to the Storting, in order to see who is seeking to influence the decisions of the Storting, and what they say when they contact. That's a good reason. But the reason is that one must also look at other aspects of the connection between the Storting and the outside world. We have a significant movement of lobbyists and groups who are in contact with Stortinget. They have a very important role to play in the work of the committees — and in the work of the Stortinge. I think it would be natural to come back to how we can, with further legislation, seek to gain transparency in these areas, and it will somehow do so for the harvest. I can announce that we will make a proposal aimed at registering and getting an overview of and transparency around the lobby business towards Stortinget. Let me give you an example: what we now put in the legislation exempts wholesalers and wholesalers from registration and to follow the principle of publicity. However, in the case of gas power, natural force had a very special contact with a majority in the Storting through the parties' fractions in the Energy and Environment Committee. These documents, as the majority said, were of great importance for the conclusion they drew, were not possible to gain insight into outsiders. Clearly, it is not enough to have a document publication when you have a lobbying activity on the page, an activity that is of great importance to what is happening on the Stortinget, but which is not registered, and which is not transparent around it. That's why the Left will come back to this for the harvest. But today we're taking an important step, and we're inspired by that. We're going to follow up with more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1504	First of all, sir. Kvassheim, who said something about what I had said earlier. I have to say that, as a general principle, I always think it's good to know the cost of something before you put it into action. I think that makes sense in many contexts. I think it was interesting what Mr. Kvassheim said that he would go further in this matter of monitoring the contact of lobbyists and stakeholder organisations with Stortinget. He spoke as if there were some difficult regulatory obstacles to this today. I assume that, sir. Kvassheim is familiar with Stortinget's Rules of Procedure. He has made several proposals in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. Every time one has met with partner organisations, he has suggested that the meetings be open to the press and to the public, so that one can gain insight. For that we have rules for today: a committee can declare that ordinary hearings held with stakeholder organisations should be open. Personally, I think that's the way to go. I think it's nice if the Left and Advance Party could work together in this area, for my personal opinion – this has not been discussed in detail within our group – is that every time a committee meets some people from an organisation or other, and it's not about private matters, the main rule is that it's openness. I think it is really remarkable that, in our opinion, the Financial Committee has representatives of the LO, the NHO, the financial industry – a lot of organisations – in relation to the budgetary work behind closed doors. I remember when the control committee was in Canada and in Parliament a few years ago, we told them that not only were our usual hearings to get information closed and secret, they were even so that we couldn't really write comments in the settings and say that it and that organisation had claimed it and that. You couldn't even use the information you got. It was just background information. The question from the Canadian parliamentarians was simply: why in the world are you at committee meetings? Because there it was that everything was open, and mostly – when there were no meetings in plenary – the main committee meetings went out on television, both on a French-speaking and on an English-speaking channel. I am going to be very positive to a general rule that all hearings held by a committee should be open, in the sense that the media and the audience should have access – you can then look at the practical consequences in terms of meeting rooms, etc. – so you can also use the information that comes out. One of the most important things about this would be that when the LO was in the finance committee, the NHO could sit and know what the LO said, and vice versa. And when the Nurses' Association was in the Social Committee to talk about something, the Medical Association could be there to find out what was being said. Then first we would get a publicity and an openness around the work of the Storting that would satisfy the wishes I have. It would also be possible for all the members to know what was said and answered in these committee hearings. I think it is nice if the Left could come to the same thing, because they have so far opened access to it. And it is partly implemented as a firm practice in local government around the openness of committee meetings. So to Mrs. Halvorsen, who today – as opposed to what is common – was unusually unclear. She said a lot about what she was a little dissatisfied with, or what could be improved in the legislation. The same thing happened, sir. Kvassheim. Usually in such contexts, a concrete proposal is promoted, so that we can know what is really dissatisfied with it. In other cases, the proposal would normally be to ask the Government to investigate and assess. In this case, the Government cannot investigate and assess anything, for the Government has nothing to do with what kind of disclosure rules the Storting is stocking. We don't have any executive to prepare it. We have to do it ourselves. I wish Kristin Halvorsen had clarified which paragraphs of the code that the Stortinget is now invited to adopt, which should change – from what is, to what – so that I could know what it was she was talking about. I have made the call earlier to identify what is wrong, because all she said from the pulpit instead is, as far as I can see, covered by the legislation that is being discussed. Some have to identify which paragraph needs to be amended in order to meet the view of the representative of Kvassheim and Mrs Halvorsen. The matter has been in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs for a long time. It is possible that I have not followed – I have to say that it can sometimes be a lot to do – but I cannot acknowledge that we have received a letter from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Left to the Control and Constitutional Committee recommending additions or deletions or doing something with the legislation. I know we didn't get it from SV, because we asked for it. Why can't they come up with these rule changes, so that we could get them evaluated – maybe we would give it our consent. It seems to me that SV and Left have simply decided that they want to present themselves outwardly as more interested in publicity than the other parties, and then they come with their criticism. But it is impossible for us others to join, because there is no proposal. It's just sour criticism, with no alternative votering basis. So I would argue that I fully agree with what Kristin Halvorsen and Gunnar Kvassheim said, and all they say is covered by the existing legislation – until someone can identify where in the legislation there might be gaps that make this petty criticism necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1523	I tried in my post to rely on expressing my satisfaction, that I think this was a historical breakthrough for a principle that should have been applied to the Storting for the longest time. I said not to underestimate the decision we made today, and I said I had noticed that the case's rapporteur had stressed that one should go as far as possible, and expressed satisfaction with it. So I said that I agreed with SV's comments, which identifies some areas where one could possibly gain the experience that the legislation is not good. It could have been a preconceived, for example. in the case of record-keeping, by having had stronger wording. It could also have been prevented by being more restrictive with regard to the exceptions referred to in the SV’s comments. The left made it clear that in these areas we would be waiting for the experience we get in a year before we get a review of this. That is what I think is satisfactory, not least in the light of the fact that the new review will take place in interaction with other actors. To Mr. Hagen's statement, I can say that we have had good and close contact with the Christian People's Party's fraction in the committee during the work, and feel that we have been able to get along well with our input – a good interaction in this regard. Hagen said that it was important always to have the costs of new proposals identified before going into them. I can agree with that. But not much has been clarified in terms of the costs of this, through the examination in the committee, except that one assumes that there is a size that is manageable, without going beyond the limits of reasonableness. What I wanted was enthusiasm for the transparency proposal when it was launched. But I am now content to stop saying that the enthusiasm that Hagen shows about lobbying is uplifting, and I can promise that the Left will come back with proposals this autumn. I am thinking not only of meeting openness, but also of a further registration in relation to lobbying, which also gives you an overview and transparency in this area. But I'll come back to that. It was inspiring that Hagen got rid of it so positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1532	As the president knows, I'm always gentle and crystal clear. And if Hagen's day-form makes him unable to register a gentle lady when he sees one, it gets on his account. SV needs to underline some key chords for weaknesses that we can see in the legislation that is in place. This applies, for example: the last paragraph of Section 2, which also applies to Section 6. It is about the extent to which resources are now being allocated to the Storting to ensure that up-to-date journals are kept up-to-date for those entitled to access. These are areas in which SV needs to focus its attention, but this may well be in place in the Stortingen’s management of the implementation of the principle of public health. We can see that, but these are points that SV will follow to see if it's going to work. Indeed, these are absolutely necessary prerequisites for the Storting to practise the principle of disclosure in the same way as it should operate in the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1539	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1553	On behalf of a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, I would like to say that the examination of the annual report for the Civil Ombudsman, that is, the Ombudsman for the administration, is one of the highlights of our work. This year, as in previous years, the Civil Ombudsman and his staff have done a formidable, good job on behalf of the Stortinget. The number of cases has been high in 1999; it has actually increased compared to previous years. Both the number of complaints and the number of cases raised on their own initiative have been greater than ever before. The number of cases dealt with and closed was also higher in 1999 than ever before. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee notes that, in addition to dealing with complaints from citizens, the Civil Ombudsman has carried out systematic investigations, in particular with a view to identifying practices in different administrative areas. We appreciate that, because you need to focus a searchlight on the administrative areas. The issues that have been raised on their own initiative also show that the role of the Civil Ombudsman is becoming more important and important. It also shows that, through the work carried out, the Civil Ombudsman has received a good ‘stand’ out of the population. This means that the individual administrative bodies or persons who take decisions contrary to the law to which they are subject comply with the Civil Ombudsman’s instructions. We see that legal issues are becoming more complicated, and that the Civil Ombudsman has dealt with it in a good way. It is therefore important that the Civil Ombudsman continues to strengthen the information required by the obligation to provide information on the role of the Ombudsman. It is a clear challenge both for the Storting and for public agencies to follow up what the Ombudsman says and the decisions being taken. I would also like to point out that the Stortinget has a draft document, Document No. 8:33, from the Grandfathers’ Representatives Gunnar Skaug and Jorunn Ringstad on the law amending the Law of 22 June 1962 No. 8 on the Ombudsman for the administration of the Storting, given that the Ombudsman of the Administration of the Storting, the Ombudsman of the Civil Service, considers it important to publicise the administration. It's a recurring theme. In this area, a few new legislation on the Ombudsman will be available, and it is very much appreciated by a unanimous committee. So we have no criticism, just praise. We wish the Ombudsman and the entire staff good luck with the job they are going to do, for the benefit of the king and the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1570	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5 [[Footing, see page 3655]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1584	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1593	Today’s setting includes three issues: the development of the white bear and spruce oil fields; the disposal of the installations on the Gamma and Lille-Frigg Tomelit and finally the development of the costs of the Åsgard chain. The Right Party and the Advance Party have made a proposal to reduce the proportion of SAD in Grains and White Bear. SV has made proposals on, inter alia: postponement of the start of production of the Grane field until 2004 at the earliest. I assume that these parties themselves will present their proposals. Otherwise, I assume that today's setting will be adopted unanimously. The supplier industry will be in a period of few new development projects this year and in the first part of next year. Several supplier companies have already gone to denunciations and lay-offs. The development of White Bear and Grane will be important for employment in the supplier industry. During the current development period planned for these fields, there is a great need for new jobs in offshore business in Norway, and it is my hope that the companies involved, Statoil and Hydro, place great emphasis on the fact that the major tasks here can go to the Norwegian shipyard industry. The Norwegian shipbuilding industry should be competitive in a tendering round on the largest contract awards. In addition to the direct task of the oil and gas industry, the activity will have major ring-effects for other industries and in many communities. The total investment for White Bear has been estimated at DKK 8.7 billion, including investment in pipelines and extension of land installations in Kollsnes. For the Grane field, the total investment was estimated at DKK 15 billion, including investments in pipelines and changes in land use in Sture. The Committee agrees that the installations at Tommiten Gamma and Lille-Frigg will be disposed of in accordance with the recommendation of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Finally, the Committee noted the increase in costs associated with the expansion of the Kårstø facilities, which is part of the Åsgard chain – a matter which the Committee, like the Ministry, considers to be serious. The Committee therefore refers to a joint remark by the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the SV of the Innst. S. No 67 for 1999-2000: ‘The majority therefore consider that there are still aspects to the Åsgard case which should be assessed in greater detail, including the decision-making process, the information process, the follow-up of the project by the Ministry and the other parties. The majority assumes that the Riksrevision is aware of these matters in its control work and further argues that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is responsible for the control of this matter by the Stortinge.’.» I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1619	I'm not going to take a long time. The development of White Bear and Grane, which we are dealing with today, is, as I can see, sensible development projects, which can also have a positive employment effect on offshore business in Norway. This is very important after we have now been through a time of investment drying. As a result, there have been major structural changes in the permitting, denunciation and fragmentation of environments of competence that have taken decades to build up. As regards the cost development of the Åsgard project, and the Kårstø projects in particular, it remains worrying. I am pleased, however, that a unanimous committee this time refers to the majority comments in the Innst. S. No 67, from which Mr Blattmann quoted. In our opinion, the shares in White Bear and Grane are too high. They're also higher than what's common in new licenses. We therefore propose that the Government be authorised to reduce its shares. With this, I would like to address proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1632	The representative of Vaksdal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1635	The size currently covers approval of plan for the development and operation of White Bear, which is a major gas and condensate field in the northern part of the North Sea. Statoil has also applied, on behalf of the Trolling Group, for minor modifications to the gas reception facility of Kollsnes, which is to receive and process the gas from White Bear. The field is estimated at 47 billion cubic meters of gas and 17 million cubic meters of condensate and naphtha. White bear thus represents a field of considerable resources. As regards Grane, Norsk Hydro has applied for approval of plans for expansion and operation, including the extension and operation of an oil pipeline from Grane to Sture Terminal and a gas pipeline from Heimdal to Grane. Production, which will start in the autumn of 2003, amounts to 112 million cubic metres of oil, with an investment framework of approximately 10 miles (U.S.) In total, production at the peak level amounts to approx. 6.5 pst. Norwegian oil production. The Committee welcomes the major employment effects resulting from the development of White Bear and Grane. Offshore industry and business are in a situation where new jobs and deliveries are necessary, while expansions will also have a positive impact on other industries. At the same time, these represent a significant contribution to the maintenance and further development of the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. The Christian People's Party, together with a joint committee, has noted that it is designed to minimise the environmental adverse effects that could result in the cooling water of the expansion and operation of the two fields. It is also stressed by the Committee that emissions to air are also sought to be minimised by the organisation and development of technological solutions, not least in relation to NOx emissions. The Christian People's Party is aware that the operation of White Bear and Grane will lead to some emissions, but it still believes it would be right to open up development and operation now, as the signals from the companies involved to take the environmental challenges seriously are strongly highlighted. We assume that this will be followed up and that technological innovations will be used continuously for further emission reductions. It is important to note that overall emissions are relatively small in relation to the existing petroleum industry. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the impact on fishing activities is small and assumes, of course, that the notified remedial measures are implemented. With regard to the increase in costs associated with the extensions of the Kårstø plants, it merges into the range of unfortunate exceedances also in other installations and fields of the petroleum activity. The Committee has previously discussed this problem. The Christian People's Party shares the concerns expressed by the Committee and assumes that the ministry follows up in an appropriate manner to minimise future exceedances by developing new fields and extending existing ones. The Christian People's Party joins in the development and operation of White Bear and Grane, as the proposition today stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1650	I don't want to spend a long time doing this, because SV is the same as most of the time. But there's one thing I'm going to spend a little time on, that's the question of the power supply to the Grane platform. It's particularly interesting that the central government party, which recently went off because it didn't get to build CO2-free gas power plants instead of those that were decided to build, won't be on SV's proposal to build a CO2-free gas power plant on Grane. But it's not only those who have a problem, because the whole thing was concerned with developing new technologies, they were concerned with clean technologies, but also the possibilities that are in the process of developing new technologies, not least on the gas power side, and monthly job opportunities. Hydro launched the Grane field for its CO2-free gas power plant. So it was clear that one could use CO2 and inject it instead of using natural gas. Then I thought it was remarkable that the center part was especially not part of SV's proposal. One should also think about the builder here, Hydro, flag this with a very high CO2-free gas power plant. Now Hydro says it's getting too expensive. And that's what's going to be the argument from the center part as well. Expensive in relation to what? Which one, for example, saves using CO2 instead of natural gas? What saves you from a future climate quota regime? In addition, in the Grane field, there will be a cost sharing, as HOUSE has 43.6 pst. The Grane field thus fits brilliantly to build so-called CO2-free gas power plants, and will be able to contribute to the technological development that a single landfill has said is so important. SV therefore suggests that the Grane field be expanded with so-called CO2-free gas power plants for power generation to the field. And let it be said to those parties that think we shouldn't get involved in this: it's too late, some say. But what should we do about the Storting? Are you sure you want to just sit here and accept everything that the company and the government bring with you? We should not try to make creative recordings ourselves, for example. in relation to the climate problem? Is not so important for the center game that you can reduce the output by 90 pst.? Was it important only when it was about government? This I think is a question that the center party has to answer. Based on this, it is clear that building a CO2-free gas power plant will slightly delay the start of production. But according to SV's opinion, it's not problematic. On the contrary, this will ensure more stable employment for the shipbuilding and supply industries and longer-term employment. And it was at least the Center Party's agreement with SV in the past was important. A small challenge to the left at the end, which often calls itself an environmental party, but is not part of SV in this case. Kvassheim says to Stavanger Aftenblad that he has little left over to SV's suggestion. It would be noisy if oil policy were to be governed by this approach, and it would threaten thousands of jobs. The left shall now have the word after SV. Is it so to understand that a desire to promote good environmental options is an input method policy? Isn't it just the job of a big one, to bring it as one think is the best options, and for SV, what's best for the environment in this case? I take up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1671	The representative of Langeland has taken up the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1674	The left has the same objective as SV, it is as soon as possible to facilitate gas production without emissions of CO2 as much as we now experience, both when production takes place on the continental shelf, and when it takes place in mainland Norway. I think that the most effective way to achieve that goal is to help one develop this technology, stimulate technology development. That's why the center parties created a comprehensive package of incentives that would make working with these solutions much more attractive, that would make it the solutions that were chosen, and not the polluting gas power plants. And I think this could happen quickly if the necessary political will was present. Unfortunately, the bulk of the population did not want to support these proposals, and it was also such that only some of them received SV's support. In the big dilemma between providing framework conditions for what they perceive as a large industry and implementing environmental policy, they chose to counterbalance framework conditions, even though they knew that there was less ‘driving’ on the development of new technologies, such as new technologies. the environmental organisation Bellona wanted. And if we're going to rank the failures in relation to the environment, as Langeland suggested, I would say that not going in for the CO2-free package that the centre parties had has far greater negative effects than being like the left does in this particular case that we're dealing with now. That's what I took into account when I described SV's policy in this area as by the input method. It would be totally unreasonable to expect the builders and the yard industry to assume that one should use conventional technology until, incidentally, the Stortinget comes to a different point of view in a single case. I would like to remind you about the extension of the Grane, for example. is already awarded contracts, and I don't think that's the way we're going to run this. But I am fully aware of what I see as the main concern of the representatives of Langeland, namely to put ‘driving’ on the development of clean solutions in terms of gas power.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1687	The government enters this proposition to expand the White Bear field and the Grane field. The expansion of these fields will be important for the employment of the supplier industry, and after what these companies say, these expansions will provide 15,000 annual works. In addition, the indirect employment effect comes. Most of the work will be carried out between 2001 and 2004. The supplier industry will be in a period of very few new expansion projects before this year and the first part of next year. Several activities in the supplier industry have all been subject to large-scale redundancies and lay-offs. Without new large projects, there will be more cancellations and more lay-offs, especially at our offshore site. Grains and White Bears are large-scale field-developments that will give new jobs to the supplier industry and make an important contribution to sustaining employment for an otherwise difficult period of time. It will also help us to keep up with the knowledge and technological environment that we have managed to build up over several years. White bear is, to my mind, a fashion project. The White Bear gas from the White Bear field will help to increase the flexibility of the production capacity on the Norwegian base. Both the gas pipeline and the oil pipeline will be capable of being used for the transport of other oil and gas from the Tampen area. The development of White Bear will therefore also help to facilitate good use of resources in this area. The development of White Bear is an important incentive to meet an increasing demand for gas in Europe. The development of White Bear will help to cover the gas obligations already entered into by Norwegian sellers. The European gas market is growing rapidly and this growth is expected to continue. Norway is today one of the most important suppliers of gas to Europe, and the expansion of White Bear is an important contribution to strengthening our position as a gas seller. White bear development will also have a positive effect in helping to further develop the gas reception system at the Kolsnes and Mongstad Terminal. The government is also going into this proposition to expand the Grane field. Grane is a big oil find west of Stavanger. The legal entities are Hydro, Statoil and Esso. The rule entered to extend this field now. The field will be developed with an integrated platform on the bottom of the sea. Production from the Grane field will be scheduled to start in autumn 2003 and have a plateau level above 200000 barrels per. the day, and production is expected to be until 2021. The total investments for Grane are estimated at NOK 15 billion. Grane will be a large and profitable extension. The proposal also deals with the disposal of the underwater installations of Lille-Frigg and Tommeliten Gamma. The department suggested that these underwater installations be removed. The removal of the installations is in line with international agreements, notably the 1998 OSPAR Decision, which was also dealt with in St.prp. No 8 for 1998-99. In the case of the disposal of pipes and cables in the two fields, Lille-Frigg and Tommeliten Gamma, a decision has not yet been taken, but the Ministry states that in the course of the current year, one must make a landfill proposal which deals with the disposal of these pipes and cables.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14.ana.ud1986e1702	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is now late, and the meeting is cancelled. [[Footing, see page 3655]] New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
