ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e37	The President of the Storting, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, and the representatives of Thore Aksel Nistad and Hilde Frafjord Johnson, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for sick leave for the representative Arne Lyngstad from 28 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Astri Wessel, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e63	Astri Wessel is present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 24 March 2000: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 24 March 2000 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined:The following is appointed State Secretary: Head of Department Norvald Mo, Prime Minister's OfficeSenior Adviser Hege Marie Norheim, Prime Minister's OfficeAss. Deputy Director Vidar Ovesen, Ministry of FinanceSektionsverlege Øystein Mæland, Ministry of Justice and Police, Ministry of Labour and Administration, Ministry of the Church, Education and Research from 27 March 2000News Editor Roger Ingebreichsen, Ministry of CultureBonde Sveinung Valle, Ministry of AgricultureDirector Stein Lier-Hansen, Ministry of the Environment, Department of Economic Affairs and Education Olav Soleng, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, President Tore Hagebakken, Ministry of Social Affairs and Social Affairs, Directorate-General Sigrun Møgedal, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Department of Assistance from 27 March 2000.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e98	The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e103	On behalf of the representative Siv Jensen and myself, I would like to propose to introduce a separate foreign budget in addition to the ordinary national and state budget for the purchase of goods and services from and abroad without any impact on the Norwegian domestic economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e108	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e120	The background to Directive 98/27/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May 1998 on the abolition of prohibitions on the protection of consumers' interests is intended to prevent the very protection of consumers from being impaired in cross-border activities. In particular, this is when an establishment tries to circumvent the legislation by carrying out any illegal activity in a country other than where the establishment is established. Moreover, such circumvention would weaken the internal market and would distort competition. The Directive will thus represent an improvement in the effectiveness of consumer protection in the EEA territory. It could provide an opportunity to bring an action against a trader in the home Member State for offences which might have an effect in another Member State, in the case of infringements of collective consumer interests. Each country shall have courts or administrative boards which shall have jurisdiction to act in respect of infringements of the law. They shall be capable of imposing an obligation to amend or suspend. Penalties may be imposed to ensure that the order is followed. In Norway, these may be, for example: The Consumer Ombudsman, the Food Authority of the State, the State Medicines Control Agency, the Credit Authority or the Competition Authority. Others may be in a position to ensure that the Directive is complied with. In order for the Directive to be implemented, it is necessary to make some changes to the different laws to which it is subject, but this will only concern procedural changes. The Directive will have implications for the Marketing Act, the Medicines Act, the Broadcasting Act and the Credit Purchase Act. This Directive in the EEA Agreement is an important step towards more effective consumer protection by ensuring that a performer cannot circumvent the law by trying to engage in any illegal activity in a country other than where the operator is established. The Directive itself will not involve substantial costs, while the use of the system could entail certain costs. With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e135	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2573]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e149	Cultural cooperation with the EU is enshrined in Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement and entered into force on 1 June 1995. This Protocol provides full participation for the EFTA/EEA countries in the EU cultural programme and other cultural activities. Norwegian participation in the programme necessitates admissibility decisions and the consent of the Storting. Culture was introduced as a cooperation area in the EU by the Maastricht Treaty in 1992. The EU does not have a common cultural policy, but the Community contributes to promoting cultural cooperation between Member States through different programmes and initiatives. The Culture 2000 programme covers the entire cultural field, i.e.: all arts, cultural expressions and cultural protection, including cultural memory protection. In general, the new framework programme opens up support of a more long-term nature, and this support for each project could increase significantly compared to the original programmes. Since Norwegian participation will be financed over a period of five years, the consent of the Storting must be obtained for the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee, as stated. The second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. At the same time, Norway's participation in the EU cultural programme, on the basis of the EEA Agreement, will give Norwegian cultural actors a unique opportunity to lead and participate in artistic and cultural projects supported by the EU cultural programme. In doing so, they may participate and develop further together with other European practitioners. But this agreement also costs Norway some money. As mentioned above, the agreement is five years old and will per year. years are 6-6,5 million. Norwegian Krone. I would therefore recommend that the Committee should be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e168	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2573]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e182	This case, or similar case, has been dealt with in Stortinget earlier – Document No. 8:85 for 1997-98, on 2 June 1998 – and having its background in a proposal from the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen to bring Norwegian alcohol legislation into line with the requirements of the EEA Agreement for the non-discrimination of wine and wine products and beers of the same alcoholic strength. In the light of the proposal at the time, the proposer stated that Norwegian legislation means that wine or wine products with an alcoholic strength of between 2,5 and 4,75 % vol. can only be sold through the State retail monopoly, while beer with the same alcoholic strength can be sold outside the State monopoly. In an advisory opinion of 3 December 1997, the EFTA Court concluded that this distinction could lead to discrimination contrary to the EEA Agreement. Int. S. No However, 201 for 1997-98 rejected the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV, the proposal, while the Progress Party and the Right supported it. The representative of Gundersen subsequently complained to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, by letter dated 29 May 1998, that the Norwegian authorities were not willing to amend that alcohol legislation and indicated that, in a reasoned opinion of 11 October 1999, ESA concluded that the discrimination was contrary to Articles 11 and 16 of the EEA Agreement. In a reply to ESA of 10 December 1999, the Government of Bondevik defends Norwegian law and maintains its compliance with the EEA Agreement. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the SV, point out that the EFTA Court’s advisory opinions of 1997 were, in effect, concerned with the existence of discrimination as regards the place of sale between wine of normal strength and beer, contrary to the EEA Agreement. The majority consider that that advisory opinion concerned the relationship between ordinary wine products and beer and that, for that reason, the Bondevik administration had no incentive to justify discrimination between such products. The majority point out that a restrictive Norwegian policy in this area must be assumed to contribute to lower consumption, and that in particular such products as they consider to be mainly for young people. Furthermore, the majority consider that a line-by-line argument would lead to a relationship with the EEA Agreement and, in this context, would indicate that the EEA Agreement, as interpreted by the EFTA Court, provides for discrimination based on alcohol policy considerations. On this basis, the majority of the Committee rejects the proposal made by the representative of Gundersen. The minority of the Committee, the members of the Progressive Party and the Right, take a different view and indicate that ESA claims that Article 16 of the EEA Agreement on State-trading monopolies also applies to wine. The minority disagree with the presentation by the Government of Bondevik and the majority and support the assessments and conclusions reached through the ESA reasoned opinion of 11 October 1999 which concludes that discrimination is contrary to Articles 11 and 16 of the EEA Agreement. In a letter to the Committee dated 7 February 2000 by former Social Minister Meltveit Kleppa, the there are strong alcohol policy reasons for treating the products in different ranges from 2,5 to 4.75 % by volume and that these reasons are sufficient to justify the Norwegian scheme in relation to the EEA Agreement. The foreground part and the right part clearly do not share this perception. The same letter from former Social Minister Meltveit Kleppa goes on to say: ‘If the range of alcoholic beverages is increased in the groceries by the release of wine products from the wine monopoly, this will most likely increase both the number of consumers and the total consumption.’ However, the Advance Party and the Right consider that this provides a general justification for maintaining the Vinmonopoly and that such a justification was known to the EFTA Court, so that it cannot be relied on as a new basis for discrimination. Nevertheless, this justification was known to ESA before the reasoned opinion was delivered on 11 October 1999. The right supports the proposal of the representative, Mr Gundersen, and does not see that the reasons given by the majority are different from those of the general monopoly on wine, and that there is reason to treat beer and wine in a non-discriminatory manner, even in the case of the weakest wines. The Procedural Party and the Right consider that it is unwise for Norway, on the grounds given, not to comply with the recommendations of the EFTA Court and the ESA’s reasoned opinion that discrimination is contrary to Articles 11 and 16 of the EEA Agreement. On this basis, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that the Norwegian alcohol law complies with the requirements of the EEA Agreement for the non-discrimination of wine and wine products and beers with the same alcoholic strength.’ On behalf of the Advance Party and on the Right, I take up the minority proposal included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e216	Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e219	As demonstrated by the wording and by the statements made by the rapporteur, there are different views on this matter in the Social Committee. The Labour Party cannot participate in the liberalisation as Document No. 8:21 add up, and which in the setting is wholeheartedly supported by the Advance Party and the Right. An overall objective of the Action Plan for the reduction of drug use, which was addressed in the United Kingdom on 1 December 1998, was, among other things, the following: reducing alcohol consumption among young people and increasing the initial age of alcohol use. This is a goal that remains at least the same for the Workers' Party. There are not many wine products with alcoholic strength between 2,5 and 4,75 % vol. alcohol. However, there are other types of alcoholic beverages with this alcoholic strength. I would like to mention here the raspberry, which addresses young people both in terms of taste, appearance and marketing. Removing the traditional distinction between beer and wine makes it very difficult to distinguish between the different products with this alcoholic strength. In my opinion, this will be a negative trend in reducing alcohol consumption in youth settings. I also fear that such a development may contribute to lowering the initial age of alcohol use. The proposal promoted in the nomination of the Progress Party and the Right involves liberalisation, which means that a number of new alcoholic products can be sold in grocery stores. This will increase the availability of alcohol, which cannot be said to be a good instrument for achieving the objectives of the adopted Action Plan for the reduction of drug use. The EEA Agreement has been used to justify the inclusion of this matter and the submission of a minority proposal. But there is no doubt that the Progress Party and the Right are followers of a much more liberal alcohol policy than what we have today. The reality is that these two parties would like the wine monopoly to be closed, and that all alcohol types would be found in the shelves of the grocery store. I don't think this is an alcohol policy that will help reduce alcohol consumption in Norway. I would point out that Norway must stand firm on its alcohol policy line and falsify it in relation to the EEA Agreement. Should this not be respected, the Storting must take this up in full if such a situation against assumption should arise. I believe that the majority's position in this position is entirely in line with that line Stortinget put forward in the treatment of the Action Plan for reducing the use of drugs. This line cannot be deviated as easily as the minority, the Advance Party and the Right, add up to it when dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e238	The previous speaker, Bendiks H. Arnesen from the Workers' Party, would teach us a little bit about Norwegian alcohol policy. He would instruct us that if we accepted this proposal, it would be contrary to the objectives of the Action Plan for the reduction of drug use. The Party of Progress and the Right has been shown to have a light-handed approach to this type of product, according to the representative Arnesen. Of course, I don't entirely agree with the description that Arnesen uses here. The proposal on the table is, in fact, an EFTA opinion on Norwegian alcohol legislation contrary to the EEA Agreement. We have now received a government where both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister have stated in the media that we, among other things. to adapt to the extent possible for the EU, even if it is not to send a membership application. This is quite a small matter for the Government, but the possibility is now here to show from the Government that we are serious about adapting to the legislation that has been said to adapt. But I fear that we might already be in this first case that the Government is now presenting to the Stortinget, which concerns the legislation, Norway versus the EU, and which deals in particular with the EEA Agreement, get the first deviation. In Document No: 8: 21 for 1999-2000 is what has to do with Norwegian alcohol legislation. It is requested to be amended in line with the requirements of the EEA Agreement for the non-discrimination of beer and wine. For the purposes of this distinction, wine and wine products with an alcohol content of between 2,5 % and 4,75 % by volume may only be sold through the Vinmonopole, while beer and similar types of products with the same alcoholic strength may be sold, inter alia. in the retail trade. Then I ask myself about alcohol policy: is that the monopoly of wine you're talking about, that's the point of sale itself, that it should have the widest possible range of products? Or are we talking about the adverse effects of alcohol and the relation of the population to alcohol? Because then it's with the alcohol content and the consumption it's about. Beer and wine with the same alcoholic strength is what this proposal is about, and we are talking about an alcohol content of between 2.5 and 4.75 % vol., which is in beer that can be sold today in the retail trade. Liqueur beer is being sold today at the Vinmonopolet. I have lived in the belief that when beer with an alcoholic strength of between 2.5 and 4.75 % vol. can be sold in the retail trade, can it not be any more harmful alcoholic and consuming to sell wine there with the same alcoholic strength? And then the alcohol policy argument really falls on what has to do with adverse effects. Then we're left with what's going on with the Wine Monopoly, and then you can ask yourself the question: What's the next Workers' Party wants – if you're going to go on with this? It was the representative of Reidun Gravdahl who in a newspaper review for some time ago, among other things. I had in mind that she would have beered into the wine monopoly. If that's the policy that the Workers' Party wants to pursue in this Chamber in the future, I just have to say that then it's going to be exciting to follow developments. The representative Arnesen was also involved in this with raspberry. I have also mentioned that with the former Minister of Social Affairs in this Chamber. Then it was also claimed that this product had a taste and a look and got a marketing that made especially young people use these products. But I haven't seen the studies that show that the drug shower leads to a previous start on drinking alcohol, and that you get a previous debutalist because of it. Surveys on intoxication have actually shown the opposite, that there were a number of people who had been drinking beer very often in the past. Then I would like to ask the representative Arnesen, so maybe he can confirm it – I thought that the marketing of alcohol was prohibited in Norway: is it the design of the bottles that makes it active marketing? Are the colors doing that? Well, then we have to start looking at how a number of other products in this country are designed, because alcohol advertising is not allowed in Norway. When it comes to the taste of the product, I just have to say that the representative Arnesen has a slightly different relationship with this product than I have. I haven't tasted it, and then it's a little hard for me to say about the taste, as the representative Arnesen did. At least you must first have bought the product before you know anything about the taste. So what about the appearance of this product, which makes it so very interesting for young people, and which will lead to a previous onset of alcohol? Unfortunately, I do not believe in the arguments of the representative Arnessen to maintain these lines of division and that it is not contrary to the EEA Agreement, which he claims. So I want to hope that the new social minister, i.e. the current one will withdraw the application pending so that we can have a Norwegian legislation in line with the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e266	Over four years in the Defence Committee under the authority of the President, I have learned a little about the importance of rehearsal exercises. But I have little sense of this type of rehearsal exercise that the representative of Gundersen's proposal involves. The proposal refers to the requirements of the EEA Agreement. But then Social Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, in a letter to the Committee, pointed out that the majority of the goods in the segment concerned, i.e. between 2,5 and 4,75 % by volume of alcohol falls outside the EEA Agreement. We therefore do not have any contractual obligations to treat these products in a non-discriminatory manner. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for your support. Gundersen's proposal. But when the majority reject this, it also has an alcohol policy justification. I quote from the setting: ‘The majority do not wish to liberalise alcohol policy, leading to the sale of a number of new products in the retail trade, leading to lower returns and higher consumption of alcohol among young people.’ Of course, the Christian People's Party is part of this majority, and I agree with the contribution of the representative Arnesen. The members of the Committee from the Party of Advancement and the Right have now expressed the impression that it is mainly pilfered beer and not wine that is particularly popular in young people. I guess you should listen to that, because I'm sure the Progress Party and the Right is on it. But there are many young people, and perhaps especially girls, who don't like the beer taste. The new products, such as cannabis, are intended for just these groups, i.e. significant young people. Here, drug users see a new market of young people among whom they want to get a foothold. This foothold is not interested in giving, and I just want to mention that within the EU, too, measures are being discussed to bring about the survival of drug trafficking, for example. There will be some backwardness if one in Norway is going in a liberalising direction in the field of alcohol policy, while one in the EU is increasingly seeing the problems of the widespread availability and high consumption of alcohol. It could be tempting to go into the discussion between the representatives of Nesvik and Arnesen, but I will not. However, when the representative of Nesvik makes this matter a test question as to whether the Government is serious about adapting Norway to the EU, it is a little difficult to take the representative seriously. Regardless of what we think about the production of beer and wine with a volume of alcohol between 2.50 and 4.75, this is hardly going to be the big and decisive question of European integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e284	Much has already been said in this matter, and not least by the Liberals, following the intervention of the representative Nesvik. But I have to say – to quote an older example: ‘Be black and white’, then it becomes a little hopeless. Although Nesvik was very concerned with both colour and design in bottles and different when it came to this rush, I think that there will be a frightening production of alcohol policy objectives for us who are restrictive in relation to this, as the representative Nesvik put it and tried to produce it all. There's not a question here whether you've tasted raspberry or not, and whether you had to buy it to taste it. In the last period, the social committee was actually in Stockholm and was tested out this drink, and I have to say that I am receiving it in order to get it into the grocery store, both as a groceries and as a dangerous challenge to a youth group that wants to test out most, and that might get a new approach to drug use, a drug use that is most undesirable in my opinion, and which is a debut of drug use that can lead to other things. I thought that the Progress Party was also concerned that we should try to keep the drug use as low as possible. We believe that there is nothing wrong with separating these products within the EEA Agreement, as we have explained in the Committee. We say that it is not possible to treat the different types of beer and wine in the same way, and you also have to be able to look at the alcoholic strength of the different products within this. We believe that the EEA Agreement provides a basis for arguing on the basis of alcohol policy and the policy objectives of agriculture, and that is why we reject this proposal by Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. We believe that it is not desirable to liberalise alcohol policy, which leads to the sale of a number of new products in the retail trade, leading to a lower debutant and a higher consumption of alcohol among young people. And then most of it should have been said in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e293	Mr Gundersen, who supported this proposal, seems to be of the opinion that the opinion of the EFTA Court requires that all wines and all wine products with alcoholic strength between 2,50 and 4,75 % vol. should be treated in the same way as beers with the same alcoholic strength. It is, in my view, a poor alcohol policy, besides being a poor understanding of the opinion of the EFTA Court. This is not the first time the representative of Gundersen has presented this proposal. As early as 1998, Gundersen made a similar proposal and was voted down by the majority in the Grand Duchy. I can't see that there's been a better reason for the proposal now. In its opinion of 3 December 1997, the EFTA Court made it clear that there may be grounds justifying the Norwegian division in relation to the EEA Agreement. The Court held, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of ‘No detailed explanation of the reasons for this — discrimination —’ is given in the present case. In the absence of any grounds for discrimination, the two-line system must be regarded as contrary to Article 16 of the EEA Agreement...» From the Norwegian side, no justification was given for this distinction because the case actually referred to other questions. It is therefore important to stress that the issue of the Norwegian justification for the treatment of products with between 2,5 and 4,75 % vol. alcohol has not actually been tried before the EFTA Court. I would therefore like to refer to the Norwegian reason here. Firstly, there are strong alcohol policy reasons for treating the vast majority of wine products in the range of 2.50 to 4.75 % by volume different from beer of the same alcoholic strength. In my opinion, they are sufficient to justify the Norwegian scheme in relation to the EEA Agreement. Most products with between 2.5 and 4.75 % vol. alcohol are targeted at young people, both in terms of taste, appearance and marketing. If the market is liberalised, there is also strong reason to believe that a number of new products will emerge which are specially adapted to young people and the Norwegian market. If the range of alcoholic beverages increases in the groceries by the release of wine products – typically Rausbrus-like products – from the Vinmonopole, it will undoubtedly increase both the number of consumers and the total consumption. I would like to point out that the traditional Norwegian distinction between beer sold in grocery stores on the one hand, and wine and spirits sold through the A/S wine monopoly on the other, has led to a particularly limited range of products in the grocery trade. Secondly, there is a widespread misunderstanding that the EEA Agreement obliges Member States to treat all products in the same way. I would like to stress that the requirement of equal treatment only applies to products covered by the EEA Agreement. The majority of products with between 2,5 and 4,75 % vol. alcohol are not covered by the agreement and must therefore not be treated equally. There is also reason to point out that an EU country that Sweden treats beer, wine and spirits equally in this area. In Sweden, wine and spirits with between 2.25 and 3.5 % volume are sold at Systembolaget, while beer with the same strength is sold in grocery stores. I fear that the proposal of the representative, Mr Gundersen, who can look like a minor adjustment on paper, can really lead to substantial liberalisation of Norwegian alcohol policy with clear social and health implications – especially for young people. I believe that such liberalisation will both recruit new groups of consumers and lower the initial age. The Gundersen proposal is therefore a long step in the wrong direction. For these reasons, I recommend that Stortinget reject Gundersen's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e330	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e333	After hearing the statements of the Council of State, I'm a little surprised at the argument that is being put forward, because as I understand it at least, we actually have an age limit when it comes to buying this type of product. The age limit for these products is set at 18 years, i.e. the same as the age of authority in Norway. When you talk about the fear that you're going to get a previous debutator in the case of alcohol, I just think that's not the case. If minors want to obtain this type of product with the same alcoholic strength as beer, it is also illegal. It is illegal to sell to minors in this country. It is necessary to ensure that the control measures are in place, and then it is interesting to hear about this Council of State, unlike the previous one, perhaps to ensure that inspectors who are both responsible for controlling the place of sale and the place of delivery will have at least the same competence as for example. the grantors of donations in respect of the law on alcohol. It is therefore necessary to lay down requirements for the individual donor inspector; he must be able to take the alcohol law and the knowledge test, so that he knows at least the content of the law that he is to check that he is being followed. I also believe that the rice behind the mirror is much more valid for the stores than for the Vinmonopolet in terms of the fear of losing the permit if a seller to minors. I have never heard of a wine monopoly that has lost the credit if they have been involved in illegal sales, but I can give many examples of, for example. shops that have come into that situation. So I just don't believe in the horror that the Social Minister has.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e340	The representative, Nesvik, does not believe in the fears of the social minister — and the question of faith can be a minor issue for a social minister. What we know is that the sale through the Wine Monopoly is the most controlled sale we have, and that young people want to experiment with drugs earlier than many of us in this community actually will. Therefore, it is important for the Government and for the Workers' Party that we make driving rules that keep the debut age as high as possible. And it is undoubtedly far more difficult to control the many grocery stores that sell everything than to control the A/S wine monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e348	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e353	A majority here stand on the barricades to prevent wine products from being treated in the same way as beer products. Had it been based on different alcoholic strengths or that wine had been more harmful to health than beer, one might have understood that. But here it's about products with the same alcoholic strength. And if we are to believe in medical research, one cannot claim that wine is more harmful to health than beer – rather on the contrary. The debate has also shown that, with regard to the issue of intoxication, the problem is said to be a good taste. So good taste should be banned, because otherwise we could risk someone buying it. This argument, expressed by the majority, can at best be referred to as interesting. The justification used is that the EEA Agreement does not prohibit discrimination, only the justification is good enough. This is probably the right thing, but what are the good reasons? The majority have noticed, it says in the setting, that there are very few wine products with an alcoholic strength of between 2,5 and 4,75 % vol. This, in itself, can hardly be an argument in favour of discrimination. The fact that a problem is considered to be small rather requires that there should be equal treatment, because there can be no major problem. The claim that accessibility will increase must be based on a misunderstanding. In fact, the sample could increase slightly, but the number of sales outlets and controls at these sales outlets will be the same. As a result, it will not be easier to obtain alcohol. The majority also point out that the restrictive policy towards products in this segment is the reason for the low consumption. The argument must be that it is better to pour on beer than on wine-based products. This can hardly have any particular point of view either in medical research or in other areas, and must be based on a genuine desire for discrimination. Otherwise one sees that youth prefers beer, even if wine is available. In other words, based on purely alcohol policy considerations, beer should be more restrictive than wine products. Discrimination by Sweden does not automatically mean that it becomes more correct for that reason. It is unfortunate that Norway should try to balance an uncertain interpretation in relation to an international agreement of great importance to Norway. It is not certain that this is a good strategy for our important trading partners. It is therefore of concern that a majority seek refuge in arguments known to ESA at the time of the opinion. So the arguments were weighed, but found too light.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e370	In the middle of this debate, the representative Nesvik fell heavily on his chest. I think that might indicate that I have met quite well with what I said. I have not tasted raspberry, but I connect with something that is non-alcoholic, and the shower gets the children from they are very young. I think that just this appeals very strongly to the young, and that color and taste have very much meaning for what they take in from such things. So that this doesn't matter to the debut age for the use of alcohol, no one makes me think. It naturally falls to me, in the light of the reaction of the representative Nesvik, to ask whether it is not the case that the Progress Party wants a much more liberal alcohol policy. Is it not true that the Advance Party will remove the wine monopoly and have all kinds of alcoholic beverages in the grocery stores?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e379	It was very good to hear the social minister's presentation. It followed recognised alcohol policy lines, and it seems knowledge-based, what the Social Minister here says. Similarly, the Progress Party becomes predictable in its alcohol policy. This is, of course, liberalisation and increased consumption. It is interesting to look at studies that have been made on changes in the consumption pattern among young people in recent years. These include: a study of the Bergensklinikken Foundation in relation to the consumption pattern among young people in 1991 and 1999. What the study shows is that among boys in 8th grade, or 7th grade at that time, they had less than 30 pst. tasted beer in 1991. In 1999, the number had increased to 47 pst. Among girls, it was 20 pst. which had tasted beer in that age group in 1991, while the figure had risen to 52 pst. in 1999. In the case of weekly consumption, with drinking and consumption of beer, approx. 5 pst. by the boys in 1991. In 1999, it had risen to 22 pst. The girls registered under 5 pst. of 1991. It had risen to 24 pst. in 1999. This suggests that consumption trends follow access. Nor is it right that the Progress Party says here, that it is beer, not wine, that is drunk among young people. There has been an increasing rate of wine-growing among young people, and beer and wine are largely consumed. The point of progress is that the heart will have to continue to have an alcohol policy that is not knowledge-based at all, but which is largely based on relatively unqualified views on how to do something about alcohol consumption in this country, but where liberalisation is at the forefront. What surprises me more than the fact that the Progress Party stands for such a vision is that you get Right with it in the kind of considerations, for which there is no research coverage. As I said, I am pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs has a completely different basic vision, and that she also refers to the relationship between the number of users and consumption. It is quite obvious that if you had gone into the line to which it is added, Norway’s problems related to the management of alcohol damage would have been strongly increasing in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e392	Let me first say to the representative, Mr Ballo, about the foreseeable alcohol policy of the Advance Party: the Advance Party is predictable in all policies, and that is what describes serious policy. But what made me take the floor was the fear of the Council of State for the youth's desire to research on drugs. I think the state council here mixes different drug products, because if she doesn't, it's actually that the state council then suspects the outlets today to break the law. So, as the representative Nesvik was in, there's an 18 year limit on buying the alcoholic goods. So if that research shows that the debut is getting lower and lower, then it has to be a violation of the law somewhere. I can't see that there is any research that shows that Norwegian youth is more interested and more eager to research on drugs than, for example, Danish youth. We see that Danish youths have much more access to alcohol all the time — and have always had it — and may have had a natural way of dealing with alcohol, as opposed to youth in Norway, who grow up with alcohol being a prohibited product and are to be protected from it. Then we find that when the youth comes out into environments where there is alcohol, it becomes a brutal meeting, and they might get out of there. It could be interesting to hear what the Council of State has to say, for example, about the developments we see in those areas where homeburning and smuggler goods dominate, such as: in Trøndelag. The youth there has full access to homeburn and smuggler spirits every day, while having access to a bottle of wine for an 18-year-old must be terrible. Then I will again challenge the Council of State, in line with the representative Nesvik, on this with control measures, because there is doubt in the statements of the Council of State that the control functions are working. Is the Council of State willing to look at this in the light of the fact that those who exercise control also have knowledge of what they are going to control?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e405	I feel a certain need to link some comments to the post from the representative from SV, Mr. Ballo, for he said in his post that the Progress Party has no alcohol policy that is knowledge-based – but of course it has SV and the government party. Then he went on to talk about what's relevant to knowledge. But the problem is that the whole post of the representative Ballo was about beer. That's exactly what's going on here. We're talking about what equal treatment will lead to for development, because these products are for sale today. And I would like to say to the representative of Ballo: these are not prohibited products – it's just that they are sold today at the Vinmonopolet. The representative, Ballo, goes on to say in his post that consumption of wine is increasing among young people. But then it shows exactly what we're saying, that the monopoly of wine does not have the strict control that has been claimed in this room today. I would like to challenge the Minister of Social Affairs once again what I was about in my speech, and which has now also been mentioned by the representative Sandberg: Will the Government ensure that there is a requirement for donor inspectors and sales inspectors in this country on the knowledge test imposed on the restaurant industry and the grocery trade, so that at least you know what to control, and how to proceed? And further, I come from a municipality that had both beer and wine monopolies for all years, until one year ago. Then they got beer at the shops in my municipality. I just have to say that at least when I grew up – I was about to say that I see myself as a normal person at least – maybe you didn't always wait until you were 18 before you tried this product. But there's never a problem getting alcohol in such municipalities. The easiest thing to get in the district is homeburned and smuggler liquor, and it's also the cheapest. You have to keep it in mind in this room too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e412	I was provoked by the Light Artillery of the Advance Party in this matter. When reference is made to the 18-year-old age limit and it is claimed that cannabis does not represent a new problem, it may not be possible for the Progress Party to be unaware that, in addition to problems in enforcing the age limit, there are also 18-year-olds who sell, give and transfer alcohol to minors. The representative Sandberg refers to the so-called natural use of alcohol in Denmark. This, of course, is a bad example, and it is the old myth of the formed citizenship and its natural association with alcohol that must be highlighted as a good example. Unfortunately, it's just that it's the so-called natural round — and I don't understand why you're going to have a natural deal with drugs — that leads to a significantly higher consumption of alcohol in Denmark, and a much higher level of harm in Denmark than in Norway. This shows medical research. On the other hand, Mr President, I should like to make a point of order. Squad for medical research when he says that you can't claim that wine is more harmful than beer. And I have to agree with that – that can certainly be right. But then he says, "Straighter on the contrary." And if he's going to cover this with medical research, I'm very interested in Mr. Quakstad presents these research results to which he refers, because they are reasonably unknown to me. So it's claimed that there's a misunderstanding that availability will increase with this new product. Here you market a new product that is obviously aimed at new customers, and then I ask myself if not the background for this is that a desire for larger sales, more sales and more use of this product. I guess this product is not being placed on the market for not being sold and not being used. And we know — it also shows medical research — that increased availability leads to increased use, increased abuse and increased damage. That's what the research results show in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e423	I also welcome the statements and attitudes of the Minister of Social Affairs here today. I think it's a good idea to work together on alcohol policy and drug policy issues. In the case of part of the other statements, I have to say that I am being provoked and also a little stated, as I was in the previous article. When the representative Kukkestad in good Erasmus Montanus-style says that raisins are good, rausbrus should be banned, and that consequently good taste should be banned, there will be such a lot of ease in this debate that it is totally hopeless. In fact, I think it's the most predictable thing in the role of the Progress Party here – it's going to be an easy winnow. When the representative Per Sandberg talks about youth research on drugs — what he is doing now — he says that it is because of the restrictive attitude here, and that in Denmark a completely different attitude and approach to alcohol and to alcohol is being taken. That's possible. But you don't have to indignantly talk about something happening illegally if young people under the age of 18 get hold of this drug shower. Something illegal happens quite often when it comes to youth and drugs, and as was also mentioned here, with homeburn, with smuggling alcohol. But there is nothing better to try to open up to a greater availability of cannabis and other things that even lower age groups will have a greater opportunity to acquire. And this is that Danish youth has a much more normalized relationship with alcohol and alcohol – that's possible, but then my question is: What has that led to? How much more of the health problems in Denmark, for example: are alcohol-related diseases? There are questions that should be answered, and also whether it is desirable for us to have such a situation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e432	It is the Stortinget, i.e. representatives in this Chamber, who are responsible for the alcohol policy we are going to have in Norway. And it makes the impression when you look at research that you get a clearly changed consumption pattern among youth groups, who recruit for future alcoholism. Because that's the case. That doesn't mean that everyone in that group necessarily gets troubles in the game over time, but more than before it gets if more people drink more. And the conclusion of the Bergen report was that it is clear that more young people today are using more alcohol than for approx. eight years ago, and that the proportion of regular users has doubled over that period. In addition, drinking drunk is much more today than before. I thought I heard Sandberg compared to Europe, with Denmark. In Germany, beer dispensers are available in hospitals to prevent abstinence among in-patients. The most common pressing you give in Bavaria is a bottle of wine, also because the family knows that if you don't, the patient will have such a significant problem with abstinence that he won't be able to deal with it or stay in the hospital. It also recognises health professionals in hospitals in Germany, and especially in Bavaria. Then we see that we are evolving more and more towards a continental drinking habit, and it's spoken as if there's some kind of cultural development towards the high-cultural. Why should it not be possible to introduce the recognition of changes in the level of alcohol damage in the population? In Iceland a few years ago, he had not been seen as a result of prolonged and intensive alcohol consumption. Of course, it's changing in Iceland as well. But if we are to be responsible for how to prevent alcohol damage, there must be a certain degree of professionalism at the bottom. What Sandberg describes has very little to do with professionalism, because it means that if you just consume a little daily — many people do — it would be more beneficial than the drinking pattern we see in Norway. All the research shows that it's completely opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e441	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e449	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e482	During the debate Sonja Irene Sjøli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that the Norwegian alcohol law complies with the requirements of the EEA Agreement for the non-discrimination of wine and wine products and beers with the same alcoholic strength.’ The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:21 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e492	Alternatively, the vote shall be taken between the vote and the proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28.ana.ud509e508	There is no record.
