ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e42	The representative, Jorunn Ringstad, wants to make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e45	On behalf of the representative of Gunnar Schaug and myself, I shall be presented with a proposal for an amendment to the Law of 22 June 1962 No. 8 on the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e50	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e62	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 262]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e76	The proposal in Document No. 8:66 for 1998-99 concerns the amendment of the Law of 6 April 1984 No. 17 on the remuneration of immovable property. In the explanatory statement for the proposal, the proposers point out that the practice of the Supreme Court has recently led to a certain degree of weakening of the content of the rights of landowners in some respects than provided for by the Stortinget at the time of the adoption of the Expropriation Replacement Act in 1984. A similar proposal was one of several launched in 1996 by Document No. 8:87 for 1995-1996. The Committee points out in its comments that the proposal addresses a central and complex issue, namely the importance of regulatory plans in determining compensation for expropriation. The Committee considers that there is a need for legal clarification before a final decision is taken on the legislative proposal submitted. The Committee points out that the legal situation with regard to the relationship between the regulatory plan and expropriation claims is a difficult and controversial issue. Good reasons suggest that there may be a need to draw up a clearer limit that helps to remove the possible uncertainties that exist today. The Committee asks the Ministry to set up a separate selection to examine the issues arising from the relationship between the regulatory plan and expropriation compensation and to present the matter to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate form. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Workers' Party, agrees with the intentions behind the proposal. Finally, I allow myself to recommend the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e95	The case concerns a proposal that the Storting should decide to ask the Government ‘to set up a separate legislative committee with a view to establishing a legal rule on the relationship between the regulatory plan and expropriation compensation, which makes the necessary legal boundaries as clearly as possible’. Such a decision is based on my proposal by letter of 2 December 1999 to the Ministry of Justice of the United Kingdom to have the legal status fully discussed within a legislative committee, with a view to arriving at such a rule of law. I believe that Document No. 8:66 for 1998-1999 has addressed a central and complex issue, that the proposal raises issues that need to be carefully assessed, and that the legal situation today is not satisfactory in all ways. At the same time, I would like to state that as a starting point, the main principle of the law in force must be maintained. Thus, as a starting point, the determination of compensation in case of expropriation must be based on the value of the property by legal use of the property, i.e. by land use permitted under binding public land use plans. But it has not been given that the rules in the details should in every way remain as they are today. The work of the legislative committee to be set up shall aim at establishing a legal rule on the importance of binding land-use plans for compensation in the event of expropriation. I will not now commit myself with regard to how the matter is to be assessed after such an investigation with such a view has been made. My starting point is that I want to have an open mind about this. The case concerns a complex legislative issue that may have different ring-effects. I would therefore like to see the consequences of possible legislative changes investigated before I take a realistic view. I also want to see the sample’s assessment of what legal effects can be achieved by lawmaking, before I take a final position. The purpose of the selection work shall be to present a legislative proposal, but I would like to see the free evaluation of the sample’s recommendability for legislative or legislative changes. Only this, without any political pre-requisite in this regard, can the subsequent political assessment provide the best professional basis for taking its political position. Changes in this area not only affect citizens and the public in the roles of parties to expropriation cases but also have other important aspects. The case may have consequences for, inter alia: the economy of municipalities and local government, the formation of prices in the property market and the management of public land use, and it can have a broad environmental impact. Public land-use management, which is highly affected by the case, has an impact, among other things. how Norwegian landscapes and nature will look in the future and be accessible to general traffic. I believe that there is reason to stress that it is important, in general, to assess the impact of a legislative proposal in detail before a final and binding position is taken. But, of course, I would like to ensure, as the Committee has stated, that this investigation, with its various aspects, is'submitted to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate form', so that the Grand Duchy has the treatment they have wanted in this remark in the committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e108	As co-rapporteur for the proposal under consideration, I would just like to make a few additional comments in relation to the review by the rapporteur. After all, a full review of the substance of the proposal is unnecessary at this stage, as the Ministry will return to the Stortingen case. I nevertheless assume that the Council of State has taken note of the intention of the majority proposal. Expropriation cases, with the interpretation of the requirement in Basic Law § 105 that full compensation be provided as the bearer, are and have been one of the main lines of conflict between socialist and bourgeois policies. There is no reason to hide that I am very pleased that we have reached a majority position on this matter, which has a somewhat unusual history. The proposal in Document No. 8:66 is identical to a proposal made by the representatives of Arild Hiim, Jorunn Ringstad, Anita Apelthun Seele, Jan Simonsen and Lars Sponheim in the previous staging. In the proceedings in Stortinget at the time, the Christian People's Party broke out on the basis of its role as co-sponsor, and the proposal was rejected by the Christian People's Party together with the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Before Ansgar Gabrielsen and I signed the proposal again on behalf of the Right, we tried to get the same groupings as the previous one as the proposers, because the reason the Christian People's Party had given for its turnaround operation, was not sustainable, as we saw it. Since it was not possible to have the same broad alliance as the last time behind the proposal, we made the proposal on our own and based ourselves on the Committee's consideration. These relationships make it no less satisfying that we have reached a majority position, and I would like to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for its new recognition. It's as though no shame to turn around. I would like to give the same tribute to the President-in-Office and to the Minister of Justice for a thorough treatment so far. I take it for granted that this clear majority formulation, ‘The majority of the Committee, all except for the members of the Workers’ Party, agrees with the intention behind the proposal’;» expresses real willingness to come back to Stortinget with an investigation and a proposal that meets this intention in a clear and unambiguous way. There is no reason to hide the apparent significant difference in the views of the ministry, as expressed in the Council of State letter of 2 December 1999 to the Justice Committee, and the view such as this. In its letter to the Judicial Committee on 28 November 1999, the Norwegian Law Association submits: The Norwegian Bar Association's Legal Security Committee describes, among other things: a ‘caotic legal situation’ in such cases, claiming that there is a ‘significant legal security problem’. I therefore assume that the legislative committee will have a composition that will ensure that the intention of the proposal is respected, so that we are cleared up in the chaotic state of law. Ownership rights have won a significant win in this setting. There are some hundred thousand Northmen who are happy and grateful for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e124	It's going to be cards from my side. I just wanted to stress that the Labour Party has a minority position here that indicates that we don't want to draw any conclusion, just as the Council of State pointed out that he wouldn't do, until things get back to Stortinget. Otherwise we refer to our remarks in the Inner East. O. No 65 for 1996-97, and there's no doubt that in many ways we support the Council of State when it comes to the consequences that he drew up in his post, and what it can bring with it if we get the change that the majority here has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e131	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 263]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e145	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Representative Falch 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e156	There is steady and persistent criticism of the police, and some of it is certainly justified. However, many problems result from a combination of heavy-weight organisation adapted to past times and population structures, together with inadequate appropriations in relation to increasing crime and more professional and violent criminal environments. Both parts have to be resolved in order to obtain the results we are asking for, at the latest in the legal position relating to the budget of the year. The Judicial Committee requested an average period of proceedings for criminal proceedings before the police down to 90 days. Today it's 200 days. Furthermore, we asked for an annual results measurement of both the length of proceedings and the percentage of information for different forms of crime in each district. This is necessary to expose bottlenecks, so that we can bring all the country's police districts to the best level. But as elected representatives, we must do our part of the job, facilitate time organization and provide sufficient funds. This law is a first step on the way. The legislative proposal distinguishes between the need for professional and effective police management and the need for good political and parliamentary governance. Both parts must be satisfied, but the roles must be clarified. Police organisations are clear in their desire to have professional central management, they want good reporting procedures, a police director with great influence, and it is stressed from all sides that the very person for this position is as important as the choice of the organisational model. Furthermore, organisations clearly state that the Police Directorate must become a new and modern organisation and not copy traditional forms of work from the ministry. I agree with all of this. I am also pleased that Norway's Lensmann team, which has previously been somewhat skeptical about the creation of a directorate, is now clearly supporting it and saying that the need for democratic control is well cared for in the law. The Ministry of Justice is a large department, and Police Norway is diverse, complex and needs rapid clarifications in acute situations. All the police authorities that have expressed their views on this matter insist that there is an urgent need for a link between the police officers and the Minister of Justice. When a large number of police cases have to be dealt with within the department, the necessary dynamics in the police are prevented. Today, it is simply too difficult to be a police officer, because today's office management in the department is not effective. When too many decisions are pressed up, and the man at the top does not have time because he is the Council of State also for a number of things other than the police, then things stop. To quote an opinion from the consultation round: ‘Those who are to read the letters will never see them, only those who write them.’ Because with today's model, one has not managed to separate the police professional from the political, takes the answers for a long time, and the answers become, as another policeman said it: wretched and political. We can't have a cop in line in the department offices, instead of getting operational answers from a central police officer. This is possible to correct. The recognition of the problem is cross-political, and the signals from the last Labour Party Justice Councils are moving in the same direction, namely to support the establishment of a police directorate with a police director. Some have been afraid of losing political control through the creation of a directorate. I would like to remind you that it is not at all such that you have more control over the more detail that towers up on a council of states. Distorting political leadership in detail gives maximum illusory democratic control. Experience in the last decade suggests rather the opposite, that by drowning in detail, one easily loses a holistic perspective and fails to design key policy guidelines, and perhaps fails to promote important policy issues in order to achieve policy objectives. The Ministry of Justice does not have the power to act as the central leader of Police-Norway with today's model. This is due to structural problems, not to a lack of good will either at the Council of State or at the staff of the Department. Instead of active police management in front of the problems, we have seen unclear guidelines and fire extinguishment afterwards in the form of a kind of day-to-day management. With the Police Directorate, we can cultivate clean police management, and political leadership can cultivate policies, lawmaking and important secretarial functions for the Council of State. By doing more in advance and doing more planning, we can get better results. We can get responsibility placed more clearly, and instead of focusing on enough control of the police, we can focus on proper control of the police, that is. concentration on the major and important issues. It is gratifying that the National Advocate too supports the new organisation, despite the fact that a police director will to some extent take over part of the role of the public debate held by the Riksadvokat today. The Advocate General stresses that his support presupposes that the two-track system continues, i.e. with separate investigation and prosecution units. The view of the Parliamentary Advocate has broad political support, and the new police director therefore has no prosecution authority. On the other hand, the new Director will be responsible for following up, among other things. Lawyer's guidelines to the police. Such follow-up is very important, both in relation to the use of new police methods, the exploitation of increased demands for criminal prosecution and the steps taken by the courts, the implementation of measures against repeat crime and the fight against domestic crime and violence. I believe that with the organisation adopted today, we have two important players in the fight against crime, namely both the Riksadvokat and the police director. The courtroom of the attorney general does not get any less of the fact that we also get other and strong actors on the ground. A prerequisite for success with the Police Directorate is to recruit the 'best' people for the job. A transfer of people from the department to the directorate may not only be made. Personal characteristics associated with practical experience are most important and recruitment must be done on a free basis without losing Police Norway for positions or withdrawing wages and salaries currently used for operational police work. This means, in clear terms, that the creation of the Directorate will have a clear budgetary impact in terms of applications to the police in total. I started by saying that the police's ability to meet our performance expectations depends on the sum of practical organisation and adequate resources. Drawing an organisation chart doesn't cost much, jobs and resources do, and there's still a lot to do. Variable wage resources, those that can be used for additional police efforts at different policy frames, are under pressure; it has been publicly admitted by the Council of State itself. The right would therefore wish, and suggested that these appropriations were at least 150 million. kr higher for the current year. We know that the Staff Committee concluded that far more police people are needed, and that funds are needed to finance these. This is urgent, and I expect that we will have the opportunity to address the resource issue both in the notified police message and in connection with the next autumn state budget. An important next challenge – organisationally – will be to get the way around the structure of police Norway. Historical boundaries between police districts are no longer rational. It must not be the case that the district structure reflects the residence in Norway 50 years ago, but the structure must be adapted to the current and tomorrow's housing and work regions. Here, too, there is a major challenge for the Minister of Justice to take the necessary steps, so that we are in the forefront of development and not being dragged overtime. While both Kripos, Økokrim and the police districts are reporting to the directorate, the POT surveillance police are outside. POT shall continue to report directly to the Ministry of Justice, and the justification given for this is the need for a more political follow-up of the POT. The recent media event may testify to the need for it. Different questions related to POT will be reviewed widely in the current year, both in a forecasted forecast and in a separate legislative proposal. Therefore, POT is not specifically addressed in this setting. Because the Holme Committee, on the establishment of a central police unit against organized crime, called the ROK, gave its position before the Justice Committee's release of the police law, and because we have briefly affected this in the vote, I would say a little about this. The Committee has been informed that Norwegian police are cooperating too poorly, both across district borders and internationally. A better analysis of international intelligence and closer contact between intelligence and police response are desirable. Therefore, there is a need for a future organisation that is better than today. The attempt to get all units in contact with international and organised criminal environments to cooperate better is therefore important. Because only the opening and summary chapters of the Holme Committee are public, and because the matter is currently pending consultation in Police-Norway, the Committee awaits a matter to this effect as soon as possible after the hearing deadline of 1 March expires. The setting can be summarised briefly as follows: A directorate is set up with a director for more effective governance and better performance in Police-Norway. The Police District Committee and the Staff Committee, step 2 of the reorganisation of Police-Norway, will be presented in autumn 2000 in a separate communication. It is also explicitly stated in the setting: ‘It is important to ensure that competent people from different environments are recruited and that the new directorate does not simply pass on today’s police department under a new name.’ The five-territorial sub-system is closed in its current form and its tasks and resources are transferred to the Directorate. The structure of the Directorate will require resources, but the funds will not be taken from operational police work in the police districts. In order to improve coordination of international police work, one body shall coordinate cooperation with Europol, Interpol and Schengen, and the Police Directorate shall be given a central role by reporting there to both Kripos, Økokrim and Oslo police districts. The Committee further asks for a case on the ROC, the unit for combating organised crime, as soon as possible after the end of the consultation period of 1 March. POT, which shall continue to report directly to the Ministry of Justice, is subject to a broad review, including: as a result of the setting of the Danielsen Committee, in a forecasted forecast and legislative proposal for the autumn. Finally, the UP is divided into a central unit with 30 employees and 293 locally appointed police officers. The central unit is planned to co-locate with the directorate, but the premises are still kept separate from the other police work in the districts. This point conflicts with the position of the Police District Committee, which is currently supported only by the Right and the Advance Party. It is stated in the Law that its entry into force is from the time the King decides. The Justice Committee has worked on this matter quickly. Now it's up to the minister to get the launch in place as quickly. It is an important challenge, so that we can reap the results of the work already this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e246	The fight for increased security and crime is a central task in our society. An effective and well-functioning position of police and officers is crucial in this context. Here are resources, but also the organisation and procedures of great importance. For many years there has been work to ensure a better organised and better functioning budget in terms of its problem solutions. Demands have been made both from the establishment itself, from politicians and from opinion, which have strengthened in recent years. I would like to highlight in particular two objectives that should be taken into account. Firstly, the use of allocated resources, the follow-up to results and clearer responsibilities. The Judicial Committee described in detail the budgetary comments for this year the need for performance measurement in the establishment to identify bottlenecks and place responsibilities. Secondly, the need for better professional and administrative management of the establishment, a more efficient management apparatus. Today's organisational model and division of tasks is not good enough. I believe that there is a unanimous view that something has to be done, and in this context that the Department of Justice's police department has to be relieved and tasks delegated. Compared to other departments, the Ministry of Justice has not sufficiently participated in the development that technical and routine management tasks and the ongoing day-to-day management of large agencies have been carried out by the departments and transferred to other and generally newly established central administrative bodies. Over the years, many initiatives have been taken to achieve improvements in governance and governance and to achieve clearer responsibilities. The Department of Police has been reorganized several times, both in terms of structure and governance. Nevertheless, the current form of organisation is not sufficiently adapted to the tasks and challenges of the overall body. Delegation of powers to the police districts has also been emphasised, and in 1986 the police sub-system was established. This has not worked as expected either. I note that the Lande Hasle Committee, which has unanimously recommended the establishment of a police directorate, has also assessed but rejected a county and regional model as an alternative. The Labour Party therefore believes that the establishment of a central administration unit, a police directorate, for the delegation of tasks from the Ministry of Justice is now a major step forward. I note here that there is overwhelming support among the hearing bodies that have assessed the proposals of the Lande Hasle Committee on Directorates, including among those who have previously expressed scepticism for this option. We support the proposal on the basis of the consensus that something must be done in relation to the delegation of tasks from the ministry. The portfolio is too big, with today's control span to today's police districts and special agencies. The change will provide clearer responsibilities between professional-administrative tasks and more overall policy governance tasks. The ongoing office management and the professional police follow-up require a continuous interaction between central management and underlying bodies, which a departmental structure will not be able to perform adequately. A directorate will contribute to the accountability of the entity as a whole in relation to performance follow-up. It is more clarifying and tidy to have the views of the police from the management of a central unit than, today, partly camouflaged in the positions of the Council of State. Otherwise, we place great emphasis on the need for coordinated police action in relation to the development of organised crime and the need for enhanced international cooperation in the fight against crime. On the part of the Labour Party, we have considered in particular two main issues relating to the proposal for a Directorate. Firstly, the political and democratic control of the civil apparatus of society. Secondly, the form of the directorate, that is, a central administration unit, is the right administrative approach. The Labour Party argues that the proposal for a new central organisation of the police and officers' seat is based on the principle that Norwegian police should be a decentralised body under secure democratic and political governance and control. I would like to highlight here the following from the proposition and the position: the Police Directorate is to be a governing body directly under the Ministry of Justice, and the Department will continue to be the top police officer. The Minister of Justice retains the full constitutional and parliamentary responsibility, as at present, and will have the authority to instruct and to have access to the conversion of decisions into individual cases. We also note that the Government retains today's employment authority for the police action leaders. On several of these points, the proposal we have to deal with today differs from the Swedish model, where the central police department outside the ministry has been given further powers and powers without the direct parliamentary responsibility of the Council of State for the activities. The Labour Party believes that political-democratic control is well-managed in the present proposals. We also agree that operational functions and police authorities are primarily to be provided by police departments or special agencies and that the Police Directorate is not given prosecution authority. With regard to the administrative approach of a central administration unit, we see this as an alternative to previously less successful experience in other ways of achieving better management and clearer responsibilities. Provided the necessary need for delegation of powers and tasks, a directorate will also better ensure consistent management and practice in the exercise of police authorities. Equal treatment and legal certainty across the country are important considerations when moving from regulatory management to more emphasis on performance targets. The need for more coordination of police resources, both nationally and internationally, due to the evolution of crime, also requires the organisation of central management, which can ensure continuous professional and administrative interaction between the various stages of the establishment. Now, at a survey, a sufficient number of people will probably have different perceptions of how the directorate or a central management unit operates in other areas in practice. By that I mean to stress that this is not automatically something seductive, seductive, but depending on the follow-up, task allocation, routines and management at different levels. We will probably have the opportunity to discuss this in more detail in future briefings and budgetary procedures. The latter will also relate to future needs for posts in the Police Directorate. We are currently recording that the crew will be covered by posts from the police department, by redispatching from other parts of the station and by re-recruitment. In the other reorganisation process of the Police and National Staff Committee, the focus is on the release of administrative resources for the benefit of operational activities. We believe that this critical look at the interconnection of administrative resources must be included in determining the extent of new recruitment to the police directorate. I assume that the Council of State, which is demanding funds in many other areas, will take this critical look, even though this is only expressed by the Labour Party. I have concentrated in this article on the balances related to the main model with a directorate as part of the future central police management. With regard to the detailed organisational assumptions on which it is based, I refer you to the referral and the rapporteur's statement. However, on the part of the Labour Party, I would like to point out one point in the position where there are different opinions in the Committee. This concerns the future of the police, where the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party believe that, based on the tasks of road safety work, the UP should mainly be maintained as a police unit. Finally, a summary: there is agreement on the need for delegation of tasks from the Ministry of Justice, including: in order to be able to exercise better overall control and management. Based on past experience and investigations into other organisational models, we believe that a central administration unit, a police directorate, will be the best option for our objectives of continued political and democratic control, improved professional and administrative management and performance follow-up, and ensuring a consistent practice and police service. We have expectations for the new organisation of police central management – expectations, but also demands for better results and use of resources. But this is closely related to and depends on how the organisation of the police and officers' seats is going to be. So let me end by saying that we are very interested in attending the big message later this year about, among other things. police duties and division of districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e286	In April 1995, the then Justice Department gave a position on the new law on police. The Progress Party then put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and promote the necessary proposals for the establishment of an independent and separate police directorate with a joint management of all the police districts of the country.’ The proposal only received the votes of the Progress Party in the main hall. Today, five years later, it is decided to set up a police directorate. The government has carried out the investigation Stortinget did not want in 1995 and is fully supported by its proposal from all parties, with a possible exception of the Socialist Left Party. The reform is overly mature, so even the Right Representative Kristin Krohn Devold to a newspaper. But this is often the case with the Right, a reform must be over-mature before it gets Right-wing support. It should be a good advice to the Right that the party in the future is trying to be in the forefront of development, as the Progress Party is, and not coming neckly after last little. It is important that such a major reform, which will help to increase the effectiveness of the fight against crime, is adopted by the greatest possible aggregate. There may, of course, be details of the Government's arrangements that could have been different, but I see no need to promote alternative proposals now. We will first see how the government's arrangement will work – it is, after all, thoroughly investigated and has been through extensive rounds throughout Police Norway. Even I might think of a different title for the top position. ‘Rail Police Chief’, as proposed by the organisations, may be somewhat more striking than ‘Police Director’, as long as the senior executive will have operational authority. But of course that is not a crucial question, and I see no reason to propose it. In addition, in its proposal, the Government should follow up the recommendation of the Police District Committee to close the U.S. Police in its current form and transfer the tasks of the UP to the individual police districts. It would provide a more rational use of resources. That's hoping it's going to be the next step. In addition, the rapporteur has given a thorough account of the whole matter, as does the Vice-President of the Committee. No further additions are necessary. Once again, therefore, I would like to welcome the Right Party, the Workers' Party and the government parties after. The Minister of Justice has shown a commendable value in this matter, which he has speeded up quickly and efficiently, and he deserves praise for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e306	The amendment to the police law that Odelstinget is going to adopt today is much more than just relieving the police department of the Ministry of Justice. The establishment of a police directorate is an important part of the government's conscious policy towards better overall political governance. The consequences of this will be reinforced by the possibility of parliamentary control. We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased with that. This also gives us a much clearer distinction between what is the professional judgement of the police, and what are the political assessments and conclusions. For a long time, there have been expectations that in the Ministry of Justice there would be more than just smoking and reorganizations with no pervasive effect. There are tasks and challenges that need to be given a decisive premise when designing the organisational form and structure of a body. All parties to the Judicial Committee support the Government’s choice of solution. It is a strength when the Directorate is to be set up and become operational. The broad political commitment of the United Kingdom means political will and desire for an appropriate management and organisational apparatus, a democratically governed and decentralised police force, and a well-coordinated and well-coordinated direction of crime. This requires more than the creation of a police directorate. Therefore, the Stortinget rightly looks forward to the promised announcement of the upcoming autumn session, on police tasks, on police resources and on the regional and regional organisation of the establishment. All these conditions are coming together on the road, but today we are taking the first and guiding step. Why has the Government chosen to recommend the Storting to go in for a police directorate? The foundation lies, inter alia, in: two important factors linked to the development of crime. Today’s crime scene reveals a much stronger need for cross-border police cooperation, i.e. international cooperation. On the other hand, in the national arena, the development of crime following changes in cooperation relations between the central police department, the special agencies and the police districts is called. Apart from the coordination work and the division of tasks, the time aspect is central to this. Decisions and feedback must take place quickly. Is this what I have now said, that we are nevertheless releasing the Police Directorate and giving it an independent role outside the responsibility and control of the Minister of Justice? No, on the contrary, here we suggest that the Norwegian police continue to be a decentralised body under secure democratic and political control. In concrete terms, this means that the Directorate is to be a management body directly under the Ministry of Justice. The Council of State retains the overall constitutional and parliamentary responsibility with the authority of instructions and the possibility for decisions to be converted into individual cases. In addition, the Government will retain the appointing authority of the police action leaders as at present. But let me stress: the Council of State is primarily to exercise its overall responsibility for the police directorate through framework management, and not in everyday detail. None of us believe that setting up a police directorate in itself will necessarily give the goal we're after. Although Storting facilitates matters in the best way by decision, very much will depend on the people who are to bemoan the posts of the Directorate. Much will be involved in the development of a dynamic organisational culture that quickly coordinates and launches criminal policy measures. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that a condition for the development of a good organisational culture is that management is capable of following personnel responsibility. Individual skills and interaction in safe and positive work environments will provide the best prerequisites for the establishment's achievement of its objectives. This is a major challenge for the Government, which will first employ the Director, and then, together with him, design and define the organisational structure of the new Police Directorate. In this work, it is important to have a long way to go in the consciousness of a unanimous committee that sets out as a premise or objective to set up the directorate. For the Christian People's Party, it is an important principle that the investigation activities are governed by an independent prosecution authority. That means that we fully support the assessment that the Directorate of Police should not have prosecution authority. That authority shall be with the police locally, but subject to the State attorneys and the State Attorney, who are again subject to the King of the Council of State. But in order to underline the police director's status, we believe it is right and important that he has police authority. With regard to the other tasks to be added to the directorate, the Christian People's Party supports what has been proposed by the Government and is presented in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e329	It's an important matter we're dealing with in Odelstinget today. The Government has proposed and obtained the unanimous agreement of the Judicial Committee on the establishment of a new central police administration and the necessary changes to the Police Act to provide the basis for the establishment of a police directorate. Although the proposal contains only a few changes to the current police law, important changes are essential in order to ensure better and more effective police management. We are well-known that there have been many attempts over the years to establish a new central police department. All the trials have been justified by the fact that the ministry's work form and organisation have significant weaknesses in managing a large body such as the police. There is therefore every reason to commend the Minister of Justice and the Department for the Government's proposals, which are now being approved in this Chamber. It testifies to courage and action, and the proposal will undoubtedly be a welcome tool both in the fight against crime and in the police's important prevention work. The proposal to organise a new central police management is based on the principle that the police should be a decentralised police under political direction and control. A particularly important element of this change is that the Minister of Justice will continue to retain the full constitutional and political responsibility of the police, as we have today, and will also have the authority of instruction and access to the recasting of decisions taken by the Directorate. The establishment of a police directorate will, in my view, ensure an appropriate and effective management and organisational apparatus. The Directorate of Police shall be composed of senior management, police preparedness, strategic and operational planning and methodological development as important functions. The Directorate is also intended to be an organisational tool in the fight against crime. In setting up a Directorate, better provision will be made for coordinated action within the criminal chain and strengthen multidisciplinary cooperation. The Police Directorate will undoubtedly also play an important role in the development of new working methods for combating crime, and it will be central to strategic innovation and coordination of police action in the fight against the increasingly widespread national and international organised crime. One of the main objections to the establishment of a police directorate has been the weakening of democratic control. The demands on the police are often filled with difficult dilemmas. The budget must be a guarantor of our legal security ideals – it must be effective, democratic, decentralised and public. Many of the choices that need to be made about methodological use, organisation or delegation often include political choices, where classical liberal values are weighed against each other. Then it becomes too easy and easy to claim that an important consideration, in this case democratic control, is weakened, without sacrificing the alternatives, the consequences or the implications. A key point of police reform is to increase clarity and a more functional distinction between the department's tasks and the more police-related tasks. Today, thousands of individual cases are dealt with at ministerial level. In addition, the Ministry has extensive responsibilities for senior management and control and inspection. This has largely been at the expense of the role of the professional secretariat for political leadership. The reform will therefore strengthen the political opportunities, i.e.: democratic, governance. It is my clear belief that the Government's proposal for a new central police management has all the important elements in itself to ensure the effective and appropriate management of the Norwegian police in the future. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Department of Good Political Crafts. Finally, a brief comment to the representative Jan Simonsen's post, which was welcomed after: The directorate that the Progress Party proposed at that time, without political and democratic control, and that was voted down in the Stortinget, is quite different from the structure that the Government has proposed, and to which the Stortinget has given its consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e357	The Swedish authorities also recognise the need for organisational changes in the police force. The work of the Department of Police has become major. The department is overburdened, and is well in the process of drowning death. Then, of course, you can discuss the reason why this has happened. This may include: a strong need to control and know what is happening in the building. The proposal presented today is poor, especially for two reasons: one is of a more principleal nature, while the other is more pragmatic. Firstly, the principle is that this weakens the democratic control of the police and the activities of the police. There can be no doubt that the directorate form, which was probably the shape of the 1950s and 1960s, should not be the form we choose today. Although one initially has ambitions and goals of having strong political governance of the directorate, experience suggests that as time goes by, such a directorate can easily become a state in the state. Experience suggests that there is always a danger of such a development, and it concerns us very much. We believe that a better form would have been to move tasks into the districts, that governance functions had been delegated to local or regional police subjects, more like the Swedish model, with local, regional, political control and governance both with resource use and with other parts of the local business. Centrally, one could have set up an inspectorate, more like the English model, an inspectorate without a direct governing authority, but with the task of ensuring that both central and local guidelines are complied with outside the police. A directorate seems centralizing. That's our second charge against this way of organizing it. We believe, as I said, that it would be better to shift the decision-making authority and get stronger political control through regionalisation, a stronger local organisation of this. That's why it's right that we're the only ones in opposition to this proposal. We have a proposal – and I will take it up here – asking for the matter to be sent back to the department, and we are putting some leads into this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e368	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to. Harald Hove's next speaker. The President, however, records that the word has been asked for a line, so that the President opens the door to a change of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e373	In connection with the contributions of the representative, Mr Rikham, I would just like to ask a few questions relating to what is described as ‘bad’, the two main points and the proposal he has put forward to correct what might be a weakness in the proposal put forward by the Government and to which a unanimous committee agrees. The representative, Mr Rikvam, claims that the proposal for a police directorate weakens democratic control. The Committee has been aware of this and has therefore described in its opinion why it is not intended to be such a result as it points out. What does Rolf Reikvam think about Odelsting's clear statement as a guide and as a kind of watchbow in the follow-up to this? Because it's clear that when we make such a decision, it's because we want things to work out like we said. And here we're going to follow and we're going to get results. In addition, it is said that a directorate is centralising. No, it is stressed quite strongly that operational activities are going to take place around the country. What I'm asking about the proposal that SV has made is whether it's not really an attempt at a withdrawal, a delay of a long extension process. Police, which also include elected representatives, need to be consulted – at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e384	It is quite clear that our proposal will mean a delay in the process. We are unable to implement this as proposed by the majority, with the establishment of a police directorate as of 1 January 2001, so this means a delay. We need a new process – that's clear. So to what goes on democratic control. With regard to the directorate form, we can basically say quite clearly that we need strong democratic control here. The Minister of Justice shall direct the business, it shall be subject to his managerial function. But when we choose the way to organise it, as a separate directorate, we have experience – a lot of experience – in order to weaken the democratic governance function. So when we claim that this danger is present, we base it on experience in that form within other parts of government. We've been moving away from the directorate form in many areas and adding the tasks to the departments, also trying to move them out and down the system. So with our arrangement, with tasks delegated to our own police subjects and an inspectorate central to ensure that the guidelines are complied with, we would have had a significantly smaller central organisation. We imagine that the proportion that will remain in the Ministry of Justice will be like what is suggested by the majority with a police directorate, and then we move the other tasks to our own police subjects. So our proposal will seem less centralizing, it's quite certain.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e392	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Now the President gives the floor to Harald Hove.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e397	I am sorry to get started, but at the same time I get to say that it was good that there was one exchange of lines in this matter, which makes it an element of debate. I almost think we should pay tribute to both Rolf Rikvam and Finn Kristian Marthinsen for that. It's an old thing we have to deal with today. There is a case that has occurred in the Norwegian public at least 30-40 years, and there is a balance in this matter between several important considerations. To take two – a little simplified: one is efficiency, and the other is democratic control. But there will also be some other elements that I'm going to come back to. I also believe that we should be so direct and say that the somewhat varied experience of Sweden, with their system of a national police chief, has well been under the Norwegian debate and has been involved in perhaps delaying the introduction of a police directorate, which we are now about to adopt. The Left supports the Government's proposal for a Police Directorate and substantially agrees with the Committee's comments in the vote. And – for the sake of order – we join the Christian People's Party and the Center Party on the points where there are shades in the committee. I am also pleased to say on behalf of the Left that there is a Left-State Council that has been able to present this proposal, because – as Kristin Krohn Devold said – there are probably several Labour Party Councils that have tried in the last ten years, without success. In my opinion, this is without doubt a correct proposal. But that does not mean that there is no basis for counter-representation in relation to a police directorate, and that is in itself the basis for counter-representation based on multiple approaches. But the point becomes a little bit of a two-sided one. One is that the benefits of setting up a directorate are greater than the disadvantages, and a good part of the counter-representations you should naturally have in relation to a police directorate can – as the proposition and the position just put it – be ensured by the legislation and the arrangements you have for the police directorate. This is why – as a small note to the director, Rikham’s post: In fact, a directorate can be different from the setting you have around the directorate. What is important for the Left, and which is also clear from the proposition and the setting, is that we have to have a decentralised police and janitor's seat. There shall be a significant authority added to each of the police officers, and the main operational responsibility shall be with each of the police officers. Setting up a police directorate is not a change in this starting point. At the same time, there will be a point that better coordination and more efficient use of resources can be achieved, perhaps not least because more police-related management can be achieved that can drive method development, etc., but not operational management. It is also important to stress the point that the Police Directorate should not have prosecution powers. For the Left, it is a central point that the title of the Executive Director shall be ‘Police Director’ and not ‘Richspolizief’. And it's actually such an important point that we have to contribute to the fact that in public debate you don't slip in relation to the title you're operating with. These include: precisely a point that the operational management of the police is initially not linked to the police director. It is also central to democratic control. The police are the civil apparatus of power, and democratic control from big business, government and ministry is very important. But I agree with Kristin Krohn Devold that this is not the same as the fact that this is best carried out the more formal authority that has been added to the department. It is important to be concerned with the delegated authority and to maintain the necessary professional competence in order to be able to discharge overall management responsibilities. To sum up, it is an important reform, a proper reform to make the police more efficient and to ensure better international cooperation that Norwegian police become a major part of. But at the same time, it is unusually important how this is being done, in order to maintain and strengthen the values on which the Norwegian police are based, civilised, decentralised, close to the population and under democratic control.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e421	I guess it was no sensation that the Left supported its own government council. Howe spent some time on the directorate form, and he was busy with the setting it was inserted into. I want to start with a principle starting point, based also on experience. The experience we have with the directorate and the development of the directorate when it is established is that it is developing – at least in many contexts – to become a state in the state. These are the experiences we have. If we agree with that in principle, my question becomes: what is it that makes the Left want to go in for this directorate form, whose goal is to ensure a stronger political governance of the police, which is the authority of civil society? I think that Harald Hove should have problematicated just this something more than he did. And that it seems centralizing, I assume that Hove agrees with me, as it is added up to. When we look at the number of posts that are set up in this central directorate, and at what's left in the ministry, at least the number of posts will increase, so that it's in itself put up for some kind of centralization with greater power at the centre of a directorate. I hope that Harald Hove agrees with me, and that someone could have chosen another model. One could have followed up the Swedish model with police subjects, where one could have also put in a stronger democratic control.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e428	With regard to the initial remark that it was probably not so sensational that the Left supported a proposal from a Left State Council, I agree with the representative of Rikvam. Now I have intended to record that there is no requirement that everything that is said from this pulpit should be sensational, so I guess that would be okay enough. But, as I hope it appeared from the speech, it was also in the support given, something more than such ritual support for a proposal from a government for which the Left is part of the parliamentary basis, and from a Left-State Council. It was also an expression that it is Left's and my opinion that this is a correct proposal, but I allow myself – it must be allowed to be a little proud of his party from this pulpit – to say that I am not in doubt that this has been framed so that the proposal is good in any case because it is presented by a Left Council. I shouldn't have said that it couldn't have gotten it with another state council as well, but in any case because it's being presented by a Left State Council. It is precisely to introduce important leadership in maintaining a decentralised police force, and it is important to emphasise the need to maintain democratic control. It is clear that this emphasis on the importance of the framework should, of course, recognise that there may be elements of danger associated with a development that takes us away from the point of view. On this issue, there is no other and better answer than to say that it is important to follow the directorate's further function in the public debate and to follow up on how this works.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e437	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e440	I'm not going to hide that the creation of a police directorate has been a difficult question for us in the Workers' Party. We started with blank sheets. After careful review, consultation and batch treatment, such as: also included former justice ministers from the Labour Party, we have stated that we are in favour of setting up our own police directorate. That an overall committee to the seventh and last stand behind the committee setting, I think will facilitate implementation. There is a great deal of consensus that it is unsustainable to let the conditions continue as they are today. With today’s governance model, too many issues become ‘political’. At all, the amount of police cases that end up in the Ministry of Justice is becoming too large, and there are too many individual issues about political management. One prerequisite for what we are doing now is that we will not weaken political democratic control. The removal of tasks from the Department will, in my view, open the way for better political democratic control, with much better time for the Department's political leadership to deal with the major political issues related to the police case. Today there is no constitutional buffer between the Council of State and the police. In my view, there is today some sort of indistinctness between the department as the secretariat of political leadership and the department that operates by the day-to-day management of the police. As important as getting a directorate built up in a modern way, tasked with managing the day-to-day management of the external department, it's that the remaining police department, with the crew outlined in the proposition, is organized in an appropriate way. The Police Department will be able to give priority to its tasks as a political management secretariat, as senior management and as executive board in a different and better way than before. A greater possibility of ‘recule’ the task of the political leadership secretariat will not least mean much to the Council of State and its political staff. As several speakers have already pointed out, I would also like to stress the importance of the fact that the Directorate is not given the prosecution authority. The danger and fear that one may lose some of the political governance by moving parts of the police station management out of the department must be taken seriously. Here we must all be on guard and follow developments closely. However, I believe that with the present model – which is its own Norwegian model, where a strong emphasis is placed on the importance of democratic political control, as has also been done in the committee position and also in the European Parliament today – the danger of this happening is small. Another counter-argument is about the use of the directorate form is the right way to organise the daily management of the police. If the traditional form of the directorate is the right form of governance for the external offices you have in the Norwegian state administration, I feel a more general question there may be a lot of good reasons to ask. A total review of this system, with the assessment of resource use, governance models and government distribution, should be in the interest of any government. However, these issues should not prevent us from being separated from the management of the external police from the ministry. No one should believe that one by a new organization without further delay achieves the results and the board structure you want. There is no phase response, attempts have been made before. Success requires a broad and targeted work from all involved, from management to the various police districts. The fact that we are still going to have a decentralised police system in Norway does not mean that, as far as I am concerned, no one has spoken against. Another aspect is how many police districts we need and how they should be put together and organized. These are questions that Stortinget will have the opportunity to decide on later. I just want to suggest now that with a different organisation of districts there may be a potential for the release of resources, which in turn could result in the Norwegian people getting better police services and getting a safer society. That must be the main motive behind the organisation of all stages of the Norwegian police system, including the one we are now adopting today concerning the central management of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e463	I will first be allowed to express my great satisfaction at the fact that a joint committee has concluded on the Government's proposal for a new central management for the Police and Lenas Senate. The reform must be called a milestone in Norwegian management history. It is therefore with a sense of respect for both the political history of the reform, for the decision-making process around it and the expectations of its outcome that I am addressing the Stortinget today. In Ot.prp. No 7, on the central police management, the Storting has been made aware that the Government will promote its own big message at the end of the current year, ‘Police 2000’. In this announced communication, the Stortinget will be invited to a wide-ranging debate on the overall functioning of the police, the organisation of the agency at regional and district level, and on the tasks and resource use of the agency. In the government's view, it is important to put the police's entire business into a long-term perspective. A notification of the police is both necessary and desirable. It will provide the Stortinget with a solid basis for debate, and through its concrete proposals, the respective political bodies will be able to give the desired political leadership for the future activities of the establishment. The communication will be developed as a broad political document, but will also serve as a planning and action document for the agency, i.e. a strategic document for the new police organisation, for which enlargement and government are in the process of laying the framework. The Norwegian community, like most other communities and nations, is characterised by rapid and significant changes. What we see is a tearing technological development with which it is hardly possible for a normal human being to keep pace, while at the same time our cultural identity and heritage are challenged by integration with other cultures, through a new world economic order and changed forms of communication between people. A result of these developments is a significantly altered picture of crime. We are increasingly seeing how the behaviour of criminals adapts to new structural and social framework conditions, and the new opportunities created to commit illegalities in a mobile and digitalised society. Organized, criminal structures are constantly emerging, and are moving within territorial zones that do not know national boundaries. The recruitment pattern of criminal environments is also changing, while the working methods of criminals are becoming increasingly sophisticated and sophisticated. Criminals also increasingly focus their activities on what is at all times the most profitable, looking for arenas where the risk of detection is lowest. In order to succeed in fighting crime, a powerful and flexible police force is needed with the ability to convert and reinvent. Some of the answer lies in the police's resource and legal framework conditions. In addition, however, it is also necessary to provide the organisational basis for a police force capable of acting with the necessary professional strength and competence. This requires a comprehensive but not least rapid and efficient establishment management. At least as central to the functional organisation of the central management of the Norwegian police is the consideration of a secure and unmistakable democratic governance and control of the civil power apparatus of society. Societal developments have necessitated changes in the framework of the resources and legislation of the police. In many ways it can be said that today's and tomorrow's crime scene and the threat that crime poses to our well-being will increase the importance and position of police action as a power factor in society. However, such a changed position, necessitated by the social image we face, will reinforce the requirement that police duties be carried out within the framework of orderly democratic governance, within laws, regulations and generally accepted social norms. These considerations have been taken into account in the Government's proposals. Today, increasing demands are being made for political choices and overall priorities for police action. Compliance with the requirements requires political leadership with the necessary framework conditions and necessary establishment. Today's departmental structure and the tasks that the Department's police department is expected to do to me as a political leader and to the department, cannot, in my opinion, be carried out satisfactorily without a well-functioning police directorate with a completely different role distribution between the levels than we have today. It is this role clarification and this improvement of the governance hierarchy that the reform is essentially about. In my opinion, it is a misunderstanding to believe that good democratic control and control of the police action is achieved through the provision of as many individual cases as possible from the station ‘to be at the table of the Council of State’. Such a sense of reality about the conditions of political control and governance is and becomes illusory. A well-functioning Ministry of Justice/Facilities needs to share the task portfolio with a police directorate. Today, some of them are seizing so much resources, and attention from my side, that today’s system actually weakens, rather than strengthens, the possibilities of good democratic governance and control. As will be seen from the odelstingsproposition, the chief police officer will still be the Ministry of Justice, although significant parts of, among others. The Executive Board shall be transferred to the Directorate of Police. Thus, the reform does not alter the political or constitutional responsibilities of the Council of State, but creates a better framework for the discharge of such responsibilities and thereby strengthens the actual ability of the Council of State to carry out its tasks. The central police department has so far been located in the Ministry of Justice's police department. The efficiency requirements I have just described are particularly difficult to meet within a departmental line organisation. The Ministry should have its strength and function related to the role of the political leadership secretariat. The Ministry shall also be the democratic governing body of the establishment. Furthermore, it should be possible for a department to expect a quality assurance of individual decisions through the principles of multi-stage treatment and other administrative principles. On the other hand, with regard to the administration of the police and officers' seats, the Ministry of Justice shall exercise primarily the necessary political control and management of the Directorate. The budget management should be in the Directorate of Police. This kind of agency management has worked until now, with the police department as head of the establishment, we have experienced an unfortunate length of departmental procedure with subsequent impatience and frustration from the department, and not least problems in establishing the desired interaction. The government’s reform, to which the Storing now seems to join, clarifies the roles and provides the basis for a much greater functionality of the governance systems, from political level to local level. The establishment of a police directorate both strengthens the department’s primary function and provides a basis for effective and effective etat management – an excellent starting point for further reform work, in my opinion. Fighting crime will, of course, be a central task of the Directorate of Police. As an expert body and support from the Government and the Ministry of Justice, the Directorate of Police will be central in the development of strategies and in the planning and implementation of key elements of criminal policy. At the heart of this is coordination and support functions in relation to police districts. The Police Directorate, in cooperation with central police districts and special bodies, shall have a special responsibility for planning and implementing actions aimed at organised and cross-border crime. Crime trends also call for increasing international police cooperation. The Police Directorate shall coordinate and ensure Norway's participation in such forums. The establishment of the Police Directorate and the task portfolio envisaged by the Directorate will, as a whole, provide central police management with the possibility of exercising effective and forward-looking management of the Norwegian police. Let me add something to some of the reflections that have emerged in the debate. What are the fundamental conditions for the police to be civil, close and social? Among other things, it is related to: together with the fact that the police are not adapted to an organisational chart that thinks centrally, but that, like several representatives, they have a relationship with, for example, the police district division, without me having to pre-shoot it. accepted regions of residence and labour market. Where people move naturally on the basis of work and housing, identity will be linked. When comments are made about the way we have often done it in our neighboring country, I should not go into it much, but just mention that there are police districts following the loins. Because of the Swedish administration system, the Swedish police directorate outside the state council stands in such a way that the only government council can do is kick the director. And then you can do it right frequently if you're going to exercise democratic control, as it's said in this room. But according to the Norwegian administrative tradition, which is quite different, this relationship is closer. And without going into detail, I have to say that I have some experience with directorates. It is not that governments must either give orders in written form or be repatriated passive. There are many other forms of developing a modern management system, on which several of the representatives were involved, which means that there is no doubt about the division of tasks. But I think it is absolutely fundamental what is in this position, and which is also in the position that the rapporteur, Kristin Krohn Devold, pointed out, namely from the Holme Committee, that it is assumed that the police can take initiatives locally, but it may be supported by a central team. I'll give you a reason why it has to be like this. Let's take organized crime: could it be acting outside Oslo? The answer is, of course, yes! Does it drive cocaine bags on the West Coast? The answer is yes! Will there then come some kind of rescue team from Oslo to teach people how to use their heads, how to act? The answer is no! The answer, of course, is that the police must have such a general competence, because we live in Norway and have the broad educational background that pride is in our society, that it is able to act. Then you can have specialists. We know our country, we know it in relation to Kripos and local bodies, so that what the representative Krohn Devold had in mind, that we should centrally coordinate the resources, does not conflict in any way with local efforts. The Holme committee is just paying attention to exploiting the local impact force. And I would dare say that people living in Namdalen are best fit to see the archipelago when it comes to seeing who is trying to land in a rude manner. It's simply stupid to ignore the Norwegian local, decentralised structure, which actually makes it worse to fight crime. So the directorate is not against this, but it's an agency to get more out of the politicians and the best in the local culture. And after traveling around the country, I have to say that we actually need to see the best in local culture in many places as quickly as possible elsewhere, to maximum inspiration and joy, for there are many jumps in police Norway, from places of well-organized vigilance to many places where there are still some steps to go in that area, to take it as a practical example.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e503	Being responsible for the justice sector in our country today is a big and heavy task. Therefore, this reorganisation of the police force is an important and major step towards better governance in one of the many areas under the Ministry of Justice. What is the mark of the Ministry of Justice? It's working on a case that hits and engages individuals. It controls our everyday life in many ways. This leads to a high level of media focus in the case and should and should be so. And that's why it's so important to have an organisational model that takes care of the responsibility and at the same time succeed in creating the right for individuals and the media to be familiar with the issues and decisions. But it is also important to put responsibilities at the right level, so that it gives room to address the overarching political challenges that we see in line in this area, and which are likely to be even more demanding in a larger international context, as our society today demands, at the same time as it requires day-to-day administration and rental, which will also require the great effort of the police in recent years. It is not enough to allow funds and create new police settings when there is a lack of central administrative support. Therefore, today’s change in the police law is important and a major step in creating the organisational structure, which will allow the responsibilities to be placed where they should be. Today, we see that the number of transparency and journalized writings in the ministry is so large that it is impossible to have overview and control, and much less to have time to work with the superiors, to set the goals politically. For the Labour Party, it has been important that the democratic, political responsibility and control of the police act not be weakened by the reorganisation of a police directorate, and that is what we feel secure with the reorganisation we are adopting today. For me, it has been important that we do not have curtailed lines of responsibility in the organization, because we do not want to achieve the desired goal of reducing the individual issues from the department. At the same time, however, it has been important to get as flat an organization as possible, and we are told that the individual police officer is directly under the directorate, with a large delegation image for the individual police district. This is also very important for us who are busy having good police services in the districts. People who live in our country should feel that they can reach their policeman and know this person. It's a security issue that's very important to take care of in our society, as well as being close to the development of the crime scene, and it's being passed on to the political leadership through the Directorate, which the Council of State was just about to discuss. We have a big country to pray, and there's a big difference between Oslo police districts and out to a smaller one, like that. Sick police districts. But at the same time, it is important to follow developments in order to have the peace and order we want, in order for society to feel safe and just to live in. In other words, the developments we see in society confront us with demands to streamline resources both in terms of addition and economics, to have expertise in analysing the crime scene, and thus to put in place preventive measures and provide security for individuals in our country. To achieve this, today's decision on a police directorate is a big step. It will be easier for the Ministry to have an overview of the Council of State, giving room for democratic and political control and governance. For the Labour Party, as I said, is democratic control, and that means that we must organise our administrative tasks so that we have real control, not symbolic control. There is a great tension and a large amount of business with which this department is required to have real control. Today's decision will facilitate the day-to-day rental of the department by removing individual cases, but the political requirement to set targets for services and to be ahead of developments within this sector is now becoming even heavier. I would like to focus much more on the development line in advance than in retrospect. Today, we have often discussed the challenges in retrospect, and it is a political challenge to set policy objectives. If we are to do so, we must have the material that needs to be provided – from statistics to analyses of developments, both on a national basis and in relation to international developments in the field of police. With the reduction of border controls and a biased economic and democratic development in many countries around us, we will need to outsource strategies that are anchored in our democratic, political everyday life. If we don't take this challenge right now, we're all wronging ourselves to what we want. We don't want a development that gives us a more criminal society, that makes our everyday life insecure, and that makes our democratic social development under pressure. We are busy developing our welfare society in a solidarity and democratic path, and there is nothing of our own. Building up our administration and giving room for it to take care of its tasks also helps to take care of these superior principles for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e520	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 263]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e528	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e604	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e612	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e618	Here the President will draw attention to a correction, i.e. that it is included as an addition to the Committee's proposal for Decision No I, and the current proposal for a Decision of the Committee shall become II.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e642	The referenced II will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e648	In the course of the debate, Mr Rikvam, the representative, has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new proposal for changes that both meet the need for better management while ensuring democratic control of the police. New elements in better police management could be the delegation of governance functions to local police officers who also consist of elected representatives, and the creation of a police inspectorate to check that central and local guidelines are being followed.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e749	SV has notified that they are in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e756	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety. The President assumes that SV will also be opposed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01-lower.ana.ud2432e766	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
