ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e58	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e63	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e68	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and the Kjell Engebretsen shall be deemed unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e85	There is a proposal for an amendment to the Maritime Act that exists. The proposal will make new Conventional compensation rules applicable to Norwegian marine pests, even if the Convention has not yet entered into force internationally. The Committee also points out that the introduction of the new rules will take place in several stages. It has been noted that most hearing bodies have not advised that the rules of the so-called 1996 Protocol to Norwegian authorities should be applied before the Protocol enters into force internationally and that most of them are in favour of increasing the limits of liability. The Committee considers it unfortunate that entities with registered offices or domiciles in Norway will, for a transitional period, have higher levels of liability than foreign entities with responsibility. For example, it involves: that a Swedish or Finnish entity of responsibility must be treated as ‘foreign’ by Norwegian courts and thus be able to use the lower limits of the 1976 Convention, unlike a Norwegian entity of responsibility, which may be subject to the limits of the 1996 Protocol. In this context, the Committee would stress the importance of Norwegian active efforts to ensure that as many countries as possible ratify the 1996 Protocol as soon as possible, so that the transitional period is as short as possible. It has been noted that an attempt has been made to reach a separate Nordic agreement based on the 1996 protocol, which would apply to the whole Nordic region at the same time. But this has not worked. The Committee also considers that the proposed changes should be met, in particular in the interests of the victims for whom the change may become relevant. The entry into force is intended to apply from 20 February 2001 and will result in renegotiations of insurance contracts. It should be noted that the date of entry into force has been changed in relation to the proposal of the letter of consultation in the light of the opinions of the Hearing Officers. It is pointed out that the size of the amounts set aside today is unacceptablely low compared to the victims. In the view of the Committee, the increase in the cost of raising the totals to a more generally acceptable level is not likely to be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 220]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e125	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines with up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The first speaker is Astrid Marie Nistad. Nistad is the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e138	First, I want to fix it. I'm not the spokesman for the case, but I'm talking on behalf of the spokesman for the case, Ane Sofie Tömrås. The conflict management system has appeared to be a success. In most cases handled by the Conflict Council, agreements are concluded. The parties are very satisfied with the result, with few exceptions. More than 90 pst. the agreements are respected and held. Today, we are going to adopt some changes to get the scheme even better. It is in line with the evaluation of the scheme. The age limit for brokers is lowered from 25 to 18 years. The youngest brokers should preferably be used to broker matters with young parties, because a younger person will have more opportunities to understand the parties and broker a good deal. In addition, we have earlier reduced the age of co-optors to 18 years. We are also expanding the area of the obligation to tender. It is important that the parties can be confident that what they admit during mediation cannot be used against them later, especially not in any criminal proceedings. It is therefore true that the brokers are not obliged to testify to recognition and offer during mediation, and that the Ministry of Justice is not able to relieve them of their obligations. The Committee has noted that the system of review of the transfer of competences to the members of the public to transfer cases to the Council of Conflict has not met the expectations. There is a goal to transfer multiple items to the conflict council and to reduce process time. The Lensman has local knowledge of the police district, usually better than a police lawyer can have. This knowledge is important to use. It may be said that the test project carried out at the 11 candidatures has not been expected. Few things have been sent to the conflict councils. A number of factors may be involved, and the Committee requests that the project be carried forward, expanded if possible and reorganised as appropriate. Improving knowledge and training can also be an important factor in making this work. The regulation may also be a basis for looking at it. The Committee has noted that where good forms of cooperation have been established in the police districts, the procedure is brief. Such good forms of cooperation and procedures should be introduced in all police districts. The Committee sees that today we do not have adequate responses for children and young people. It is important to respond quickly and effectively, to set clear limits. Society does not accept norms and laws. It is important to stop the young before they enter a truly criminal value. To that end, we need cooperation between child protection, police, school, social affairs and parents. I am therefore pleased that the Government has set up a working group to look at the reactions of the youth group aged 12-18. I look forward to presenting concrete proposals to the Stortinget as a matter of urgency. As I said, today the conflict council is working well for the issues that are being transferred. The vast majority of young people under the age of 15 say yes to mediation, and we see that results are achieved. The basic features of this scheme are voluntary participation. This is an important principle for reaching an agreement. No one can be forced into mediation. Here are the clear signals from the conflict councils: it is through trust and voluntary agreement that achieves the positive results. There may be cases where a reaction is needed, one must be forced. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party agree that one should not benefit from the ordinary conflict settlement. This is something the Government will come back to, with proposals for measures for children and young people, including on mediation as a condition for conditional court decisions and registration in a police record. This will be debated in the context of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e164	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e167	Today’s attitude shows that the Workers’ Party has been moving for several years on the issue of responses to children under the criminal lavalry. As far as I can see, they are in one joint comitology comment, which says that you should be able to introduce some kind of forced mediation for those under 15, i.e. those under the criminal deputies. It is in stark contrast to the times we have discussed this in the past, when the Labour Party has been proselytizing that there is no coercion in this area, because children have not done anything criminal when they are under the criminal detainee. I would like the representative Nistad to confirm that the Labour Party has moved away from the point of view that the criminal lavalry is an obstacle to having reaction forms and forced against children under the age of 15. But then I think it's striking that it can't happen under the control of the conflict council, that you can't use the mediation system that exists in today's society, and then possibly get a framework around the forced mediations for children under the age of 15. The reason why forced mediation is important here is that while there is an incentive to go to the conflict councils for those over 15 years, because the alternative is a criminal reaction, there is no such incentive for those under 15 today. You can't go to the conflict council without any consequences. For this reason, the Right has proposed, through repeated cross-sections, to make conflict management a mandatory arrangement, so that it could be held in the context of forced mediation in the conflict councils. My question is, what makes it so impossible in the process we now have when we are going to renew the public sector, to use the established body for those under 15 years? Instead, it is obvious that you have to establish something completely new, which then has to have a separate secretariat and its own functions for what you might think is a few things. But there are important issues, because it is perhaps those who refuse to meet voluntarily in the conflict council, who are primarily on their way to the slope. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e174	In many ways I am pleased that the representative Erna Solberg has discovered that the Workers' Party is not a stagnating party. It's always in development, taking over the time we're in, and not holding on to the dogmas that one here in many ways was invited to sit in. That Right is stuck in his, it'll be their problems. In the Workers' Party, we're busy finding solutions that can allow us to deal with the problems we have in society at any time. When we've said that there shouldn't be mandatory mediation in the conflict council, it's because there's a trust between the parties that makes us actually get agreements that give results. And that's the result that's important. In a few cases, we see that there may be a basis for finding other forms. We expect the selection that the Government has now set down, and the message to come to Stortinget, to allow us to discuss possible actions. For the Labour Party, prevention is always the most important weapon against children becoming criminals in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e181	I am pleased that you have confirmed that you have changed your position. As far as we are concerned, this is a matter which arose following the treatment of the Child Protection Act in 1992 and which has a long background. Among other things, the Children's Ombudsman took up the question: What do we do with young criminals? At that time, the government party, the Workers' Party, could not answer. No later than two years ago, the Workers' Party could not respond to what we were going to do. At least you've come so far that you recognize that this is a problem, but it's a problem that needs to be solved with separate arrangements instead of using the arrangements we've already established. In this way, I just want to ask whether the main point of the public sector renewal project has dropped, not to build new bodies, but to try to exploit the existing bodies. I'm sorry – it's possible I'm a little thin – but I guess it's not about volunteering. There is no change for those who voluntarily want to go to mediation, while those who do not want to do so can still be referred to. So, for children under the age of 15, we have a dramatic need to find some kind of reaction. My question is, does the Workers' Party have any thoughts about what law you intend to legislate within? For example, the alternative to conflict law is: actually putting it under the Child Protection Act, which I would think was a worse solution in this area when we have a system that goes right on this in society, namely mediation. Why not mandatory mediation? My question is: Has the Workers' Party considered where they will place such a possible mediation mechanism if not the conflict council is an alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e190	What I said was that I'm glad that the Government has now set down a selection to go through the actions that we see may be necessary for children and young people, with the developments we have in society. Besides that, I have not intended to say that the Workers' Party has yet found the phase solutions, because the matter comes back to the Stortinge to debate when the selection is finished. Until then, the representative, Erna Solberg, is also a little patient. We want to have a proper review, so we can be sure that if we make changes, it will be best for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e197	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e200	The Party considers that it is necessary to provide for the possibility of reacting to persons who commit crime and who are under the criminal detainee. Crime trends in the age group below 18 are alarming, especially those presented from the capital. New ways must therefore be taken into account in the fight against crime among children and young people. There are also cases where older criminals use minors and thus speculate that 15 - year - olds cannot be punished for their actions. One of the options agreed by an overall juriscomite is the introduction of some form of forced mediation. It will be particularly important when courts are not an alternative to condemning a criminal reaction to children and young people from 15 years of age and down. I would like to point out that in our neighbouring country Denmark, a system has been put in place for young criminals to conclude contracts to settle separately. The disagreement within the Committee focuses on whether this dispute resolution mechanism should be made compulsory and not voluntary, as it is today. One of the advantages of a mandatory system is that under the criminal detainee, young people receive some form of reaction to criminal acts they have committed. Fresh figures from Eastfold, which was presented to the Minister of Justice this day, showed that 36 pst. by the perpetrators who have received their case so far dealt with in the conflict council, was under 15 years old and 14 pst. was actually under 12 years of age. Now, however, the figures from the conflict councils in total show that there are too many people who do not meet in a voluntary scheme. Today, the mediation requires the volunteering of both parties and the consent of guardians if a party is under 18 years of age. The scheme should initially be compulsory, as I have mentioned, if the victim does not oppose it. This is particularly important for children who have repeatedly committed criminal acts. In our view, the Government should also seek penalties in the event of non-prosecution of the arbitration meeting. It is a proposal in this respect from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Right, but I leave to the Right to address the proposal. At the end of the day, I would like to make it clear that matters that are appropriate for conflict management in the case of persons above the criminal detainee, for example, are matters relating to damage to the use of goods and small thefts, but not to bodily damage, violence and repeated criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e213	The conflict management system must be characterised to a large extent as a success. From the very beginning of the 1980s, the conflict councils have now become a system covering the whole country, either by the fact that the municipalities have their own conflict council or by their participation in inter-municipal cooperation. Good results are achieved in the cases referred to in the dispute resolution procedure. However, a weak point in the dispute resolution system is the extent to which a dispute is actually brought before the conflict resolution board. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, many more matters should have been dealt with in the conflict council. In criminal matters, it is primarily the prosecution authority that can bring the matter before the Council of Conflict. However, there has been a testing scheme to enable the borrowers to transfer cases to the conflict council. The testing scheme started from 1996 to 1998. It turned out that very few cases were transferred to the conflict councils, but we do not know what caused it. The testing scheme also did not lead to any reduction in the duration of the procedure. It is a pity that the testing scheme did not produce better results, and the Ministry has not proposed to continue this scheme. However, a single judicial authority considers that the test project should continue and that proper training and information on the scheme must now be provided. The Christian People's Party hopes that it will produce better results in the future. As I said, the results are good for the issues that arise in the area of conflict management. Most agree to meet for mediation, and agreements are concluded – that are held. The fact that the parties meet for direct conversation is very important. The meeting between the perpetrator and the victim is a strong experience that can help keep the perpetrator from committing new crimes. The Christian People's Party has as its objective the strengthening of the conflict management system because we believe it is a good and effective arrangement. We have also expressed a positive opinion to make conflict resolution mandatory for children between the ages of 12 and 15 who have committed criminal acts. We believe that the existing responses to this group are not good enough, and that is why we have considered mandatory conflict advice as a possible measure. It is important that this age group be also responsible for its actions. Compulsory conflict management for this age group was also mentioned in the draft consultation. However, all the hearing bodies that have expressed their views on the issue refused to make conflict resolution mediation compulsory. We in the Christian People's Party have taken that into account. We have heard what was said, and that is why we do not support the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Central Party in this round. We know that the Department is working on developing a more comprehensive strategy for responding to crime among children and young people aged 12-18 years. The Christian People's Party assumes that the ministry in this assessment will take into account the question of whether a form of forced mediation should be introduced. We also support the proposal that the age limit for brokers should be reduced to 18 years. We don't have any concerns about the fact that the brokers are getting too young. Many young people — we think — under 25 years of age may have good qualifications for mediation between other young people. In addition, the conflict officer shall always assess whether the broker is fit for the task in question. With regard to the other points in the case, we refer to the setting. But I allow myself to ask to correct a bug in the setting on page 3, column two, second paragraph. Instead of the nominated representative of the Progress Party, it shall be Odd Anders With.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e235	Then we have registered it. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e240	I can't push myself to search the Christian People's Party a bit. The representative Marthinsen was in the press release sent out on 7 September 2000, where representatives Odd Einar Dørum from the Left, Tor Nymo from the Senterpartiet and Odd Anders With from the Christian People's Party on behalf of their respective parties argued for the compulsory use of conflict councils for offenders between 12 and 15 years of age. The centre party is still involved in these comments and has the same position, and is also involved in a proposal. But then the Christian People's Party jumps off with the reason that the conclusions of the inter-ministerial working group will be awaited before final reaction forms are taken. With all due respect, I have the feeling that this is going to be a game of chance in a way, that it is used to justify that hearing bodies do not follow such a scheme as this one is put up to, with mandatory arrangements. I have the feeling that here there is clearly a kind of casualty on the part of the Christian People's Party. They were quite clear in their press release of 7 September 2000, but they are not so clear today. I would like an explanation of why the representative Marthinsen has a completely different view than Odd Anders With, who spoke on behalf of the Christian People's Party, and which I have also understood is Vice President of the Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e247	There shall be little disagreement in the Judicial Committee for the time being before the use of relatively strong language usage. This may well be due to the fact that the consensus is largely present. There is broad agreement on a great deal in the field of justice. But when things suddenly show up in one direction or another, or at least have the opportunity to do so, then you are reluctant to use expressions such as the ‘play of chance’ and the ‘advances’, despite the fact that I used most of my post to explain exactly what the representative Stang asked for. This is not about casualty on the part of the Christian People's Party. It's about hearing what's said, listening to those who speak out when they get the question to the hearing, and caring about the feedback you get. That's what I normally call, not casualty, but responsibility. I think that's a much more appropriate word. When it is said that this was very clearly expressed in the press release that was sent out, I allow myself to quote from it: ‘We do not want to lower the criminal detainee, but want to make compulsory use of the conflict council between 12 and 15 years of age.’ We haven't said no to that either. We've said that we don't want to legislate here and now. We want to see it in the context that the Government has said it will present it to the Storting. This is not casualty. It's accountability.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e265	I'm a little surprised by the representative Marthinsen. On 7 September this year, the central parties called for a press conference to launch a common criminal policy. It was a press conference that was duly covered, at least over the radio, and where one of the nine points of the Joint Initiative that was launched – which was actually the only point that did not focus on opening doors, where there was really agreement in advance – was the point quoted here. This press conference was held after the proposal had been submitted to the Stortinget and after the consultation round had ended. All the data available to the Judicial Committee must therefore have been available to the three central parties before they had their criminal offensive on 7 September. Nevertheless, you are now saying that this does not apply until you have listened. So that means you obviously didn't listen until September 7th. I would like to ask you a little bit about the other eight points of the Joint Initiative of the Centre Parties, because there may be other information coming along. I must say that the Christian People's Party's attitude to this issue has been very strange. This was first taken up by the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party together in connection with the treatment of the Children's Protection Act in 1992. Then, together, we took an initiative to investigate this issue. When the investigation was carried out, the Christian People's Party decided to participate in the Workers' Party's argument that mandatory arrangements could not be made when the scheme applied some kind of forced punishment to children under the criminal deputies. The Labour Party has already admitted in this debate that the current argument, which has been argued at least four times since then in debates in this process, is no longer valid. What does the Christian People's Party think about this? Does that mean that you can now go in for mandatory mediation for children under 15, or does that not mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e280	I don't know if I'm going to say that the Right doesn't listen, but I think at least I have to say that they can't read. At least they cannot read their own settings, and not their own suggestions. If Erna Solberg believes that the proposal from the three batches mentioned by name – Right, Advance Party and Center Party – expresses that mediation is mandatory, it is wrong. It is not a proposal for compulsory mediation, for it says: ‘unless insulted it opposes it’. So that's an exception. And that means it's not mandatory. If it's mandatory, you can't resist it. Then mediation is going to take place, whether it's like this or not. However, I do not think this is a very big matter. I have said in my post that the Christian People's Party is committed to strengthening the system, and we are concerned that it will work as best as possible. But we'd like to do that after suggestions and input from the Government, as it's announced. It is not necessary to run as fast when it has taken as long as it already has. There is nothing to lose. The system shall not be put out of operation. We're not saying that we shouldn't come up with schemes to react to criminal acts committed by people under the age of 15, far from it, but we want a system that's the best possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e289	I can't help but wonder at the verbal crunches that the representative Marthinsen is trying to get out of this pulpit to explain the facts that my colleagues have pointed to. As one of those present at the press conference when we addressed these important issues, I actually thought that when Vice President of the Christian People's Party was present and agreed on the points that we raised, it was something that the party stood for. No, it's not about casualty or liability, it's about trustworthiness. And my question is, does the representative Marthinsen have the party leadership on the hustle and bustle that has now taken place? That's the first one. And does not the representative Marthinsen feel like the rest of us that the Christian People's Party is working up a serious credibility problem, not least in relation to the Center Party and the Left, which they thought they could trust in the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e300	I don't think the credibility of the Christian People's Party in relation to the Center Party and the Left is falling with what has been said so far in this matter here in Odelstinget tonight. Had it been like this, I think the relationship had been pretty scary a long time ago. But as I said initially in my first line to the representative Stang: When there is an opportunity to hang in something, there is always someone who is able to do it. And if it's a huge point that the Christian People's Party said one thing at the presentation through the press release and in the press conference that was held, and that we're saying something else today, then I can't figure out what the difference is. I say that we represent what we have said in terms of content. We want to strengthen the conflict management system – I have explicitly said that from this pulpit, and I would like to repeat it. That's not what it's all about, but it's true that here we want to bring in the broad spectrum before we make the final decision. That it should be so terribly difficult to understand, I think it's going on credibility, because it can certainly be my hat that you make your own decisions based on simple ideas made on too weak background material. I think that's more of a credibility problem. When it comes to the question of whether the party management is on the hunch, I don't think the party management is on it, because we haven't done a hunch. What is quite clear is that the Christian People's Party's remark is accepted and accepted by the party's group government and group.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e310	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e313	Like previous speakers, I would like to express my satisfaction that the evaluation of the conflict management system is consistently positive, while identifying the need for some changes in the rules and that the Ministry will return to the Stortinge on the organisation of the conflict councils after the Stortinge has dealt with the notified decision on the organisation of the courts. I am also satisfied that the age limit for brokers is set at 18, as the rule is for appointment of fellow judges. It is obviously right for young people to be able to face up to such issues. At the same time, the Committee stresses that the conflict officer shall always assess the suitability of the mediator for the task in question. The success of the conflict councils depends on trust and credibility, not just with the parties, but with the people most. It is therefore important that the brokers are strictly bound, albeit not strictly professionally, but that the obligation of professional secrecy is absolute to the parties' recognition and offer during the negotiations themselves. Thus, both parties have certainty that what they say during the conciliation is not used against them in any legal case. In the past, the right has also raised the issue of making mediation mandatory also for children under the criminal penal code. It is gratifying that we have come to a good point in getting a majority in favour of such a view, with a joint committee ‘considers that one of the options may be to introduce some form of forced mediation. It will be particularly important where the courts are not an alternative to condemning a criminal reaction against children and young people under 15 years of age’. But that's exactly what's happening with the criminal deputies, so it's not easy to understand the Workers' Party's and the Christian People's Party's majority remark about going against compulsory mediation. As the members of the conflict council themselves point out, voluntary action is subject to maximum conditions, with a view to achieving an alternative and more stringent response. As the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party point out, it would be unfortunate to introduce different practices for them over and under 15 years. This correct reference makes the positions of the two parties even more difficult to understand. The representative Nistad said that the Workers' Party is not a dogmatic party. That's good to hear. Then we're going to draw the conclusion that they're just a little bit late. It's almost as you say about heathmarks, that we're quick and decisive just as long as we get the time. However, in one class in particular, Christian People's Party, which was part of the press release we've been following – on 7 September – together with the Left and the Center parties, is about just mandatory mediation for young people between 12 and 15 years of age. The press release was also in the purchase sent out as ‘Press release from the Christian People’s Party’. So today, on December 12, the party will “wait” that party meant on September 7th – I am still talking about this year. Understand the one who can. In a previous line, Finn Kristian Marthinsen said that the Christian People's Party would not have too weak a background for decisions. That's what I think is nice to hear. This applies here in Stortinget, but in the case of press releases, the Christian People's Party is obviously in agreement with weak background material. In this matter, for the Christian People's Party, there is hardly a question of listening, but a question of waking up. We might have left this case, but it is not the first time we have experienced this. We have experienced it from the Christian People's Party in several things. In this context, I will pay attention to mentioning the Law of Santa Claus. In all situations where the rule of law is to meet offenders, the time from the crime to the reaction of society is important. In meeting young offenders in a conflict resolution situation, this requirement is likely to be even more important. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of extending and extending the ability of the gentlemen to transfer matters to the conflict council. There is a great potential for gain in the fact that the transfer of cases to the conflict council may be delegated where the cases arise. It will have a positive effect both on the time spent in cases, on the time of proceedings and on the impact on those involved. The businessman will have an opportunity to settle separately. The victim – and society around – sees the rule of law functioning quickly and efficiently. In this context, it is particularly important to state that the powers of the members of the public must be followed up with good training and information about the scheme. I am convinced that the prosecutors will be positive both for training, information and follow-up in order to ensure the quality of the work of the public. With that, I would like to address the proposal that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Central Party have in the vote. The proposal also has the support of the Left. So the two junior partners in the former Bondevik government have been able to maintain a position for three months.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e344	The representative, Hernæs, has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e349	When I was to serve as a priest for the first time and came out in a somewhat unclear situation, I made an enquiry to the bishop. On the question of how I should behave, he said, "Anyone who's got the sense, gets to use it." I think it's a good delivery gel. It should make a lot of sense. The wit is not always synonymous with holding on to the old stand. Nor is it synonymous with always having to look for new ways, but it might be in the middle of something. In the case of the representative Hernæs’ posts, I would like to refer to what is said in Ot.prp. No 79 for 1999-2000 under 4.2 Compulsory mediation for children under 15 years of age: ‘In requiring children under the age of 15 to meet in dispute resolution, the dispute resolution mechanism will be turned towards being a court of law.’;» In addition, it says: ‘If compulsory mediation is introduced for offenders under 15 years of age regardless of the position of the injured party, it will also require mediation for injured parties. In addition, it can be claimed that it would mean a reduction in the criminal lavalry.’ There's a thought creeping into my mind: Is this Right's attempt at a rematch in relation to lowering the criminal paramedic? Is that what the representative Hernæs is trying to get? I don't think it is, but it's an attempt to make the Christian People's Party the great scapegoat today. I can comfort the other representatives here in the Chamber that what has happened today to the Herenæs and the other replicants represents a minority view in this House.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e369	I am sorry that the representative Marthinsen in his wandering from cathedral to staging did not take with him the very wise words from his bishop to use the wit of a little complicated matters. I think that would be of great benefit to this debate. As regards the rematch claim, our proposal states that compulsory mediation should apply to the age range of 12 to 15 years. I would assume that the representative Marthinsen knows that we have not proposed to lower the criminal detainee to 12 years, so there is no basis for the insinuation that must lie in what he said. Apart from that, I would like to confirm that this is the situation, probably right, especially as long as we don't get to this mediation, still think that it would be an intermediate solution to get the criminal detainee one year lower. As regards the issue of the impact of the compulsory mediation, the majority of the parties agree that some form of forced mediation will also be considered. At the same time, it is not possible to argue that it undermines the system – that is not to say what you say you want to investigate. In addition, a fact, as brokers say in clear text in letters to the committee, that the mediation for those above the criminal detainee is highly fictitious because a consequence of not participating in the mediation is that you get another criminal reaction. So it's a game for the gallery to invoke just that piece. And as I said instead, that's not what's in the proposals that they at the same time say they want to go in for – after thinking for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e378	For the sake of the Minutes, I believe that the President will be aware that all the representatives have probably used their wits during this debate. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e383	In the light of an evaluation of the conflict management system, proposals for changes to the law on mediation in the conflict management board are made in the proposal. In addition, the proposal discusses a number of schemes without proposing legislative changes. In the Center Party we are satisfied that the age limit for when you can be appointed a broker is lowered from 25 to 18 years. It is enough to point out that in a large number of cases brought to consideration by the conflict council, the parties involved are young people. It is a fact that it can often be easier for young people to communicate between young people. It facilitates trust, and the brokers will be able to understand and discover problems and motives of the parties. It is enough to show that the experiences of schoolbrokering have been very positive, and show that young people are capable of resolving conflicts between themselves. From time to time, proposals have been made for mediation to be compulsory for children under the age of 15 who commit crimes. The Ministry has discussed such a proposal but has not proposed mandatory mediation for this age group. An overall committee has pointed out that it is a major problem that we do not have good enough responses and sanctions against the youth group from very young people up to the age of authority. There is no doubt that a comprehensive strategy is needed for individualised responses for young people aged between 12 and 18. In the view of the Centre Party, it is important that young people who commit crimes face a rapid and effective response that clearly sets limits. There is therefore every reason to expect a speedy outcome with concrete actions by the cross-ministerial work under way. In view of compulsory mediation for children under 15 years of age, the Committee has shared. As part of the minority proposing forced mediation, we in the Centre Party believe that even if children are not to be held liable for the acts they do, it is important that, based on an assessment of the degree of maturity and actual action, opportunities are given to react by society and set limits. This requires a wide range of instruments. Access to mediation in conflict resolution should be extended to the 12-15 year group. Today, the mediation requires the volunteering of both parties and the consent of guardians if a party is under 18 years of age. The centre lot considers that the scheme should initially be compulsory, unless the victim objects. This is particularly important for children who have committed repeated criminal acts. Our proposal, then, is that the Storting should ask the Government to propose the introduction of a system in cases where young people aged 12 to 15 are committing criminal offences, so that conflict resolution in these cases is always carried out unless it is insulted or otherwise implemented. Otherwise, we believe that matters that are appropriate for the conflict council with regard to people over the criminal valvaldeler, for example. are matters relating to injuries to use and petty thefts, but not to bodily damage, violence and repeated criminal acts. I noticed that the representative Marthinsen in a reply stated that the Christian People's Party was involved and constituted the majority in the question of compulsory mediation. Yes, they were, and it seemed that the representative Marthinsen was very satisfied with it. But what shall we, the Left and the Center parties, who thought we could trust the Christian People's Party, think of such an action? And was actually the only motivation to get away from the position the party had taken at the press conference, that they should be on a majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e414	I think the way you run this case from the Storting pulpit today, almost starting to approach the comical. No, it is not the Christian People's Party that has tried to make this a matter of observation. It's just the minority parties that are trying to make this a big deal, which makes it look like this is a real thing -- that was the expression -- engulfment. For those of us who have some idea of sailing, and know what a hustle and bustle is, it's really dramatic. No, I wonder if it's not like that -- to stay in the Central Party terminology -- that kua has forgotten that it's once been a calf. It is not long since Tor Nymo also had a responsibility in relation to the government offices. I see no reason to extend this debate with further comments beyond what has now been said by the Christian People's Party. We've said, "We want to support a system that's going to be even better than the one that's today." The one that's today is good. We want to make a system even better, but we want to do it on the basis of a serious pre-work, which the government has signaled will come. I guess that would also be an advantage for the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e423	I understand that the representative Marthinsen thinks it is unfortunate that someone is trying to put his finger on the credibility problems that he and the party have brought themselves into. I can imagine that other than he could have intended to arrow away in a corner and try to get away from the attention around it. But it is a reality, and he has to take responsibility for it. Then, as I feel it, he says that the party wants to make its decisions on a most credible basis and on a best decision-making basis – if not I am very wrong. So do we! But didn't the Vice President of the Christian People's Party do that when he went out to that press conference? If he didn't, it surprised me immensely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e430	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e433	On the basis of the debate that has now taken place, I am tempted to propose enhanced family mediation. But I also think it's great that the person who gets out of bed stands up and shows that you can think of new thoughts, because it's okay to think about when there are strong hearing opinions. One of the fundamental principles of the conflict councils and their mediation is that it is based on voluntary action. In addition, there shall be an alternative to be offered in the case of certain types of offences. As I hear the debate here, it sounds as if forced mediation can be used on almost anything, just under 15 years of age. The voluntary nature also provides a strengthened basis for reaching those agreements that are capable of functioning and which are respected by the parties concerned. On the basis of this principle, it would be completely wrong to enter into forced mediation for those under 15 years of age, and SV would then agree with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. When 85 pst. of the less than 15 years referred to the conflict councils, it must, in my opinion, mean that the scheme works well for those who want to use it. For the remaining 15 psts, which do not appear, there is clearly a need for different types of arrangements than conflict advice. Young offenders must have rapid and effective responses. But that doesn't mean that everyone should be given the same type of reaction. The current cross-ministerial work between the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of the Church and Education in order to develop a more comprehensive approach to responses to child and youth offences in the 12-18 age group should be awaited before any new action is taken. I see the work going on now as a follow-up to the Action Plan on Child and Youth Crime, which has not been dealt with for so long by the Stortinge. And what was the Stortinget at that time? First of all, it was necessary to take seriously the fact that more and more young people commit criminal acts, and then to do a two-track job — both with prevention and with rapid response to those who commit criminal acts. Then Stortinget outlined a number of responses that should be tested, including: the arrangements for youth contracts, which are tested in Denmark. The size has also underlined the need for enhanced cooperation between the departments that will work together. I have also been visiting some conflict councils, and what they stress is that they do not get over all of the issues that might have been brought to the conflict councils. There is a job to do in making use of the conflict councils even better. Otherwise, SV believes that it is important and appropriate to extend the school-brokering scheme. This will help to solve the problem before it gets to the point of becoming a criminal offence referred to the conflict councils. The use of school mediation is, in our opinion, good prevention, and it is responsible for children and young people at an early stage, and we think it is good. We support the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, and we support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e452	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e455	When I am abiding the warmth between the previous government parties, I must admit that for a moment I also have doubts about forced mediation could have something to do with myself. But then I realized that the victim is always allowed to avoid mediation, so we can maintain the proposal anyway, since I record that the representative Marthinsen has sought consolation and reconciliation in the socialist port. Then I have a question to the representative Ågot Valle of the SV regarding her strong defense that the mediation must and should be voluntary, despite – as has been pointed out by several of us – that it is a totally fictitious and completely illusory voluntary nature. I would like to be quoted from a joint committee, including the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party – since SV is not in the committee: ‘The Committee considers that one of the options may be to introduce a form of forced mediation.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Committee will refer to our neighbouring country Denmark, which has put in place a mechanism for young criminals to conclude contracts to settle separately.’ My simple question – since Ågot Valle declared that she agreed with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party – is: Does she agree with the same parties in these comments as well? Where, then, is there from the great principleal considerations that the mediation must be voluntary?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e472	Now this case is about forced mediation through the conflict councils. And I emphasize what I said, that what gives legitimacy to this particular system, is that it's voluntary. It must then apply to all those who are referred to the conflict councils. So I also said that we think it is important to make more people aware that the conflict resolution can be used. In my contribution, I also referred to the action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency that Stortinget has addressed. Then I just said that the youth contracts that are being tested in Denmark are well worth looking at to find out what the experience is in Denmark. It also said an overall increase when we dealt with the Action Plan against Child and Youth Crime. We see that there is a need to try out new arrangements to capture the children who commit criminal acts before they reach the age of 15. Among other things, we see that some of those who end up in it are minor asylum seekers. We have asked several times that a more intensive work be put in to capture these children, because they are a very easy trade for criminal gangs and recruited there. We are not at all satisfied with how we deal with lone minor asylum seekers here, and I wonder whether the Right will be involved in this particular issue. Otherwise, I emphasize that the most important thing about this group of children, because that's what it is, is to have two thoughts in my head at the same time: to prevent, but to have rapid reactions. I see that there is another one that is going to have a line, and then I can come back to it. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e488	I am still amazed at how much the world has changed in a few years when it comes to questions about reactions and coercion in relation to children under 15, when SV has moved as far as they have done here. But I would like to remind you that there are not so many places where you can authorize any forced mediation arrangements. For me, it becomes a question to those who are opposed to lowering the criminal devaluator and who have been opposed to doing something about the Child Protection Act in order to allow that kind of action, whether it is worse to allow it within the conflict-of-law system, which is, after all, a neutral conflict mediation system, than to allow it either within the framework of child protection legislation or within the courts. So to what really did I want to take a line on the representative, Valle, what she said about lone minor asylum seekers. I'm making it clear that we've actually done something about that. We were the only party that, in the autumn budget options, proposed concrete measures to do something for lone minor asylum seekers. We added 9 million. kr in our alternative budget, where we include: would have reinforced in-use support and support contact mechanisms and strengthen the child-care competence of the receptions in that area. Here we have a very good conscience. We rather think that SV should have been part of our alternative in terms of using the frames, rather than just talking. They have not put it in as one of their own proposals, nor have they supported ours. But as this debate progresses, it is a little difficult for me to find out where to go and put in this forced mediation system. You might come back to that, but you should think about what you're connecting it to, whether you really think it's going to be a penalty, or if it's going to be a forced mediation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e497	I am pleased that the Right also takes a serious look at the problem of lone minor asylum seekers. I think that here there's a total amount of stuff to do with it, among other things. responsible for the protection of children at a very early stage and also calling for the professional competence of children in asylum recipients. The system of foster homes is also something that is worth trying out. We are committed to maintaining the legitimacy of the conflict councils. Then we don't think the way to go is to get new arrangements into the conflict management system. During consultations in the Children's and Family Committee when we worked on the action plan, I also recorded that there is not yet any country that has come up with a sesame solution to prevent children under the age of 15 from committing criminal acts. That's something we have to take seriously. We need to see if there are reaction mechanisms that help. We're busy with that. But once again, the most important thing is to prevent and have a social development that includes everyone and does not exclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e506	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e509	I am pleased that the Justice Committee has unanimously joined the Government's proposal for some minor changes to the Conflict Council Act. I have also noticed that a unanimous committee wants the pilot scheme with the transfer of prosecution competence to the public to be reinstated and extended. Of course, I want to make sure that the trial system is reinvigorated in a proper way. I am also pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee is of the opinion that mediation in the Council of Conflict will continue to be voluntary, including for lawbreakers under 15 years of age. However, I have noticed that the Committee's minority proposes a compulsory mediation system for young offenders aged 12 to 15. Before I go further on that, I would like to begin by stressing that the disagreement in this room does not address the need for reactions also for children under the age of 15 when they commit criminal acts. The mediation in the conflict council is based on voluntary action by all parties and by all age groups. This is a principle underpinned by the Council of Europe in its 1999 recommendation on mediation in criminal matters. The same principle is explicitly mentioned in the draft UN resolution and in a new Swedish study on mediation in the field of juvenile delinquency. The same position is shared by a large number of hearing bodies. However, for offenders over 15 years of age, voluntary action does not go beyond the fact that the perpetrator must expect another prosecution if consent to mediation is not given. For lawbreakers under 15 years of age, on the other hand, volunteering today is total because we don't have any other alternative responses available. Therefore, I believe that the minority is attacking the problem at the end of the day, by wanting to adopt a possible forced response today without discussing how to implement one possible forced reaction to children under the age of 15, and without having been through how this should actually be implemented, and not least how to ensure legal certainty against those under the age of 15. What about a 15-year-old who doesn't admit to having done something wrong, or admits to having done something wrong, but you're in doubt that he has done something wrong? Therefore, the question of voluntary mediation in conflict councils and other types of reactions needs to be considered in the context of the work that the Government is now doing to look at responses to childhood and juvenile delinquency. We need to look at responses in a much larger context than now to introduce a single response, where we know, as far as we know – probably – that the conflict council will be a kind of reaction in a future system. It is now working to formulate proposals for responses that may be used to offenders under the age of 15 who do not depend on their consent. The basic premise of the reactions is that they should set clear limits, provide opportunities for accountability and recovery, and not least provide opportunities for recovery. Reactions must be rapid and focused on the cause of the action, the seriousness of the offence and the degree of recurrence. General principles of legal certainty must be respected, including for children, in order to respond to actions they have taken. There are already a number of measures that are suitable as targeted responses for borderment, accountability and rehabilitation. Youth contracts are an example from Denmark, which we have invited seven municipalities to start trials in Norway. I must also note that youth contracts in Denmark are used for them over 15 years of age and as a general criminal law response. In areas where relevant measures are currently lacking, we will try to propose new ones. Once the working group has completed its work and the Government can present its proposal, the question of voluntary mediation in the conflict council for this age group will differ because there are alternatives to the conflict council. You can still get a type of volunteer, without that being the kind of volunteer you have today, that the minority wants to remove. Against this background, I do not think it right to adopt a compulsory mediation system for young offenders in the way that the minority wants to do so today, and I am therefore pleased that the majority has joined the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e535	It is always the case that a Council of State would prefer to keep the initiative in mind and, of course, would like to see everything in a context. Today's proposal from three parties in the Judicial Committee is a proposal which has been promoted repeatedly in the United Kingdom in the past, and which has its origin in an overall assessment already at the time of the examination of the Child Protection Act in 1992, including: entered and introduced stronger legal protection elements into the Child Protection Act for the possible use of the Child Protection Act for penalties against children committing criminal offences. This was against the Labour Party's votes, because they thought that the Child Protection Act should not be applied in this way. In this way, I do not feel affected by the criticism that this is a detached proposal. We have a set of proposals that have been promoted. No later than two years ago, I had signed an interpellation in this room, where there was no movement in the fact that the majority did not want to do anything to create a firm response to children under 15. It was still on the point that children under the age of 15 were not criminals or could not be punished or held liable for acts of a criminal nature, because they had not reached the criminal lavalry. We are pleased that the Council of State has taken a different stance, and I would like to give her credit for something new now in relation to the handling of children who engage in criminal activities. In many areas, we have seen the conflict resolution as a soft way to meet young people with criminal behaviour in relation to criminal sanctions. But what the Council of State is now sketching is actually introducing forms of criminal sanctions under the criminal detainee, so that in a way you have a coercive element in a possible mediation situation, because you have a rice behind the mirror with other arrangements. In practice, it means that the Council of State says that the criminal lavalry will be lowered, but with other measures, because one wants a firm criminal response.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e544	I think it is important to make a process of how to respond to those under the age of 15, not least because reactions to children often have to be combined with giving them help. That is why we are dependent on a process that takes care of both the need for help and the need to limit it. I therefore believe that we need to develop different types of measures adapted to the child, the situation and the action that has been taken. In my opinion, the conflict council will obviously be one of the alternatives in such a chain of action. We can go to other countries and see that they have developed different types of actions from the very simple ones on warnings, some kind of community service of a short-term nature or youth contracts. Just because this is intensely about individuals who need special follow-up and special assessment for each individual, we can't in a way say that's the reaction. We're going to have to have a total set of tools, and we're going to have to create a system that lets us figure out what's right for each one in a good way. Then we have to work through how we're going to do it, because it's not that easy. And then there's no good idea, as I see it, now to say one reaction: compulsory, forced conflict resolution, when we haven't yet thought through and have concrete proposals, in the Conflict Council Act for that matter, on how to make decisions about who is going to the conflict council, and what to do if they don't meet anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e554	The Minister of Justice now went high on the ground. Usually when she goes high on the track, it's with a little more positive aggression. Here I think she shows a little passivity. It may be that the Minister of Justice has been clearer with a view to the conflict council in the past, while she may find herself in a difficult situation by defending the majority's views on this matter. We all know that there has been a huge increase in crime trends for children and young people under the age of 15, and the Minister of Justice also knows that. She has made provision for alternatives earlier, on 8 August 2000 in the evening post, where she, among other things, has said that she sees ‘a form of forced conflict advice’. But she also emphasises that it must be based on ‘freedom’, it is quite clear. But when the minority comes up with alternatives, you try to attack instead of looking positively at the fact that we can be helpful in thinking a little high and helping the government start action. And with regard to youth contracts in Denmark, which she refers to and thinks is a nice arrangement, yes, it also means that one has to be present, and the development of the conflict council shows that volunteering is not the best thing ever, and then I'm talking about criminals and not victims. It's the criminals who have to get on the track and explain and settle for themselves. I do not get this to vote for the statements made earlier by the Minister of Justice, namely: ‘At the same time, it is clear that we are unable to implement an effective response to this group, i.e. juvenile criminals, ‘without some form of coercion.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e566	I think the representative, Mr. Stang, is asking good questions, because these are precisely the issues that I was interviewed about in the evening post, and which the representative referred to, which are the challenges that the cross-ministerial working group strives to find good solutions to, because at the moment we have to find responses to criminal acts for children under the age of 15, one cannot, of course, fully base it on some form of volunteering, one must have some sort of system in which society says it is expected that one does, and we do not expect one to do that. To establish such a system and process related to children with reasons for a need for response and in a need for help, that is what we are striving to find the solution. But we don't have a complete solution yet, so in a way, we can't start by saying that that action is an opportunity and that action is an opportunity, without also looking at the context and how society is going to decide what responses are right for who and at what times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e571	As the council outlined the Workers' Party's view, this is a solid quantum leap in relation to what the party said two years ago. We are pleased about that, and we take it as a statement that it is the pragmatic attitude expressed by the representative Nistad earlier today. I listened to the Council's reply to the reply from Erna Solberg, and it was, with the exception I shall mention at the end, not possible to find one single thing that I disagreed with, as the need to have several different measures for them under the age of 15, as the Council of State spoke about. Well, strictly speaking, it probably applies equally to those who are over 15 years old. And then I really have two questions. Point 1: Now that we recognise the big problem we have with childhood and youth crime, why don't we use the body we have, that is, the conflict management system, waiting for us to get something better? The Council of State goes very far in suggesting that the Forced Council of Conflict will also be one of the instruments, as I see it. If it's wrong, if she's written it off, then she'll be able to elaborate on what kind of arrangement she's thinking about? And the second question, which might be the most important one: when can we expect this semantic semantic solution that we've been asking for so many years, and that's going to solve all the problems that we're going to face? I regret the impatience, but it would have been good to know about it, carefully, could be possible that this magnification got it treated – we who have been working on it for almost four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e582	It's possible that the Right view of this as a quantum leap. I find it difficult to see that not the Workers' Party and all the reasonable people have always thought that all the children from them are tiny in need of reactions and limiting when they do something wrong, and that's really what we're basically talking about. What has been the approach of the Right Party and the Advance Party to this for many years has been hammering on the criminal lavalier. I don't think it's a good solution to lower the criminal valvaldeler, because that means that someone takes a code adapted to adult people and is going to three it down the head of children, who aren't made for or suitable for this code. We need to create systems, both actions and processes, related to children who take into account that they are children. That's what we're working on to figure out a solution. I don't think the Labour Party is going to be in favour of a forced conflict resolution, because it's a fundamental prerequisite in a mediation situation that one is set to be there. What I'm saying is that the situation will be different on the day we have alternative reactions to children under 15, because then the conflict council will be an alternative that will allow you to face a conflict situation with a desire to be there, more or less in the same way that you have today when you are over 15. I dare not promise when we can be ready with a proposal. We are working to be able to send out a hearing note early in the spring. But experience has taught me that things sometimes take longer than you like, and therefore I dare not promise how quickly we can get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e590	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 221]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e606	The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties includes, inter alia: given the negative result that the fee for a passport is increased to almost 500 kroner. The fee is linked to the legal fee. The passport fee for persons over 16 years of age shall be suspended from three-fifths of the legal fee to three-fourths of the legal fee. The tax roles in the country have been reunited in their costing approach to Norwegian citizens. The increase is, among other things, Sorry to issue a machine-readable passport, which is claimed to be a far more expensive solution than today's laminated passport, which is issued by hand. This must be considered to be the case only during a transitional period. However, the fact is that the budgetary agreement between those batches ensures that revenue from newly increased passport fees goes to entirely different purposes within the budget chapters, with an additional revenue of around 30 million. kr. In other words, further hidden taxation, which is used almost as a balancing item. It should be such that a country such as Norway could issue passports to its inhabitants free of charge, except when passports are lost or, for that matter, lost. Under the new passport law, it is no longer possible to ask for children to be introduced into their parents’ passports; children should have their own passport. It's just that children's passports need to be renewed more often, every two years, which is becoming expensive for a family of young children. The party of progress is the first to regret the increase that is underpinning this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e619	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 222]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e633	In Ot.prp. No 13 for 2000-2001 the Government returns to the Stortinget with proposals for postponing the entry into force of Chapter 2 of the Accounting Act. The size covered by the Accounting Act in June 1998 and Chapter 2 was adopted at that time, but was suspended until 1 January 2001. Thus, Chapter 2 of the Accounting Act itself has already been adopted in Stortinget, and what was now to be decided on was a new date of entry into force. In addition, this case concerns the equity method and the winding-up of State-authorised auditor’s audit requirements for the annual settlement of certain entities. Several former governments have been involved in the preparation of the new accounting law, which was finally presented by the Bondevik government – after eight years of work – and which was adopted by the Stortinget in spring 1998 following a compromise between the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. So this is no simple matter. Therefore, during the last review, the Storting decided to postpone the implementation of Chapter 2 until 1 January 2001 in order to take account of the need for conversion and adaptation — a transitional period of two years, rather than one year, as proposed by the Bondevik Government. Chapter 2 is largely about the continuation of the bookkeeping rules in the old legislation, but there are changes in some areas: The registration obligation has been extended to some extent. The record-keeping obligation has been extended in some respects. Previously defined requirements for specific reports have been replaced by more general requirements for the specification of recorded data. This has been done to strengthen the control capability, i.e. in the first row, the tax authorities and the Ecocrim. Following the hearings in the Committee, it appears that several of the organisations concerned are not satisfied with such a postponement as is now proposed until 2002 and which is another year compared to the last reading by a majority in the Stortinge, but rather wants to have the law repealed or further suspended. And that's what's happening now. The central parties have now changed their positions in relation to previous decisions and what former Minister of Finance Restad agreed to, and join with the Right Party and the Progress Party to send the entire Chapter 2 back to the Government for a new review. What has really happened since the last time we dealt with the matter, except that we have replaced the government? The law is the same. A public body will now be set up to prepare proposals for a completely new Chapter 2. The working party believes it is very important to avoid nullifying work on Chapter 2 of the Accounting Act and to start a new investigation. There is a need for modernisation and updating of the legislation adopted, but it would have been possible to do the regulatory work that is now in full swing in the ministry. A return now passed by a majority will mean a reversal of the work done in this area so far. After the hearings, there is also reason to believe that there are significant differences between organisations in the type of legislation they really want. There is therefore no reason to believe that it will be possible to achieve fully agreed legislation, even if a new public body of representatives from several parties is now to be set up. Because I expect that there must still be the control needs of the authorities that will be taken into account, and that there is no disagreement about that. In the other areas of the position that I mentioned at the outset, a unanimous committee is in favour of the Government's proposal. I would like to address the minority proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e669	Signe Eye has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e672	The budget currently makes an important contribution to reducing unnecessary and excessive bureaucracy. The majority send the full title of Chapter 2 of the Accounting Act to the Minister of Finance. And not enough, the government is required to set up a wide-ranging selection to develop a new and better regulatory framework for areas related to registration and documentation. Not only are all the heavy business organisations responding to the government's draft. Just hear what the Credit Authority says: ‘The Low Chapter lacks logically clear principles and frameworks for the purposes of accounting and how it is to be established.’ I ask permission to also quote the next point: ‘The Low Chapter imposes requirements that do not have a control value in relation to the costs that the requirements would incur for Norwegian business.’ And on the other hand, «The law text is unclear». This note of credit supervision consultation came to the Minister of Finance at the end of September. Nevertheless, even with strong reactions from all the business organisations and the kind of reaction from the Banking Authority, the Council of State chooses to submit the law to the Stortinget, and we are supposed to adopt it. Case rapporteur Eye said it is important that Chapter 2 is not now set at zero, it is important to get it through, because we need these documentation requirements. Do you not follow what comes from different business organisations and the credit supervision? When the Credit Authority says that the comprehensive requirements have no control value, is that not taken seriously? Do you want unnecessary bureaucracy and unnecessary documentation requirements? What has happened is that we in the committee have been given many examples of documentation requirements that I believe are beyond reasonableness. It turns out that all package and order forms are to be kept for five to ten years. A practical example that was raised before us was that if you run a truck company or a car courier company, you should take care of all the order forms – for a gravel box you deliver, or for a letter you bring. The order form should be kept for five to ten years, but not enough: you can, for example, use the order form. do not scan the order form and include it in microfilms or put it on data. No, the Ministry's requirement is that the document be kept in its original format. And on top of all of this, we have also received the government's short-term operating fee of 10 pst. in commercial buildings, so that it would be difficult for these firms to extend their commercial premises to the capacity necessary for the type of storage. I do not understand and understand that the Workers' Party has not taken over the objections that have come against the law. Why is it such a performance in implementing accounting requirements that it is of such a scale that it would harm business in a completely inappropriate way? Business will also react by reducing the level of respect for the Accounting Act. I am not surprised that the centre has now turned around in this matter. In the previous round, the letter from the Credit Authority to which I referred did not exist either. And it would be irresponsible for Stortinget to adopt a law in which the professional body of the Credit Authority strongly warns and says that it has no intention of requiring such extensive documentation. In fact, I would like to hear from the case-rapporteur Eye or the finance minister about why the Workers' Party has not taken over the input that has come from the Credit Authority. For example: Mr Eye, does it make sense to keep order forms for the dispatch of a gravel case for five to ten years? Ida, we don't have to reset this, we have to get through this! The mill of bureaucracy paints slowly. If I had been in the boot of the Workers' Party in this case, I would have been ashamed, and I would have been grateful that the Storting now sends chapter 2 back. We've had a majority for that in Stortinget. Now a wide-ranging legislative selection should go through this and get documentation requirements that rhymes with common sense. Finally, the Storting has taken seriously the demands that are also common to most people, that red tape must be reduced in this society. But it was Stortinget that had to clean up, and at least we did not get any help from SV and the Workers' Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e709	Let me first make it clear to the representative Burnde that the proposal for a short-term industrial building tax was not, as you know, the Government's proposal. It was a result of the treatment in Stortinget that the Government takes note of. So to the present thing. Law on annual accounts, etc., was adopted in June 1998 and then based on a proposal by the Government of Bondevik. It entered into force on 1 January 1999 and, for Chapter 2 of the Act on the Registration, Documentation and Record-keeping of Accounting Information, a transitional period of two years was granted with the freedom of choice between new and old rules. In the present proposal, the current government proposes certain relaxations and adaptations to the adopted law with a view to facilitating the transition from the old law. It is proposed to extend the transitional period to apply the rules on registration and documentation in the old law of 1977 instead of the rules in Chapter 2 of the new law until 1 January 2002. Some other amendments to Chapter 2 are also proposed mainly to meet user wishes, such as: relating to the shorter retention period for certain types of accounting material and the limitation of the obligation to register contracts. Furthermore, the proposal proposes that the obligation to use the equity method be further deferred so that, for all types of companies other than life insurance companies, access, but not obligation, to use this method is also available for the financial years 2000 to 2003 inclusive. Furthermore, proposals are made for amendments to seven other laws that involve the liquidation of the requirements of the State-authorised auditor for the audit of annual settlements for certain undertakings. I record from the financial committee's position on the proposition that the Financial Committee is in line with the Government's proposals in the latter two areas. I note that the majority of the committee also asks the ministry to consider laying down rules on the use of different financial years for specific industries, which we will of course consider. However, it is with some wonder that I note that the majority of the committee, including the centre parties, is asking for a proposal for a new chapter 2 of the Accounting Act. This means that these parties are now withdrawing from the legal provisions that they themselves presented and agreed to adopt in 1998, and then placed great emphasis on the Workers' Party's participation in the adoption – without me fully aware that there have been any significant changes in the last two years. Of course, the government will take note of the majority’s view and will initiate the legislative work requested by the majority. At the same time, I would point out that it will still be optional for the accounting officers to apply new or old rules until a new Chapter 2 has been completed and adopted. In this way, I see it as a disadvantage that the majority of the committee rejects the proposals put forward by the Government, which would have simplified the situation for those who might have gone over to follow Chapter 2 of the new law or have planned to do so from New Year's Eve. As far as the Government is concerned, we have observed that a majority of the Grand Duchy has adopted the Accounting Act as it exists. It surprises me, as I said, that those who supported the presentation of the previous bill have a different view now than a short time ago when they were themselves in government. This Government has dealt with what has been the decision of the Storting and sought to find an adaptation that would be easier for users in terms of the transition to new legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e728	First, I would like to point out that I think it is positive that the Minister of Finance has chosen to postpone the forced introduction of the equity method. This is a good proposal in connection with this law. I am also pleased that the Council of State has registered that the Committee now wants regulations relating to the possibility of different financial years. It's something in the ministry's bureaucracy that doesn't work completely at that point in my opinion, because when, for example. The ski association is applying for the possibility of a different financial year and they are denied the reasons given by the department that they are not adequately engaged in seasonal activities, so it bears the mark of some poor judgement in my view! It has also been established by the Committee and has been extended by the Council of State. What remains then is simply a more detailed reason why the Minister of Finance has not chosen to review Chapter 2 in more detail after the letter sent by the Credit Authority to the Council of State on 28 September 2000, where it is actually said: ‘– The Chapter of Law lacks logically clear principles and frameworks for the purposes of accounting’, and that requirements are imposed ‘have no control value in relation to the costs that the requirements will incur for Norwegian industry.’;» Does the Minister of Finance think that the credit supervision is wrong here? And why does the Minister of Finance think that the credit supervision is wrong? For example: the Minister of Finance that there would be a reasonable requirement for a car tender company to keep original order forms, if any, for five years, or does the Council of State consider that there is something bureaucratic?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e744	I have no problem seeing that the present law has weaknesses. There is also a reason why the Government has put forward proposals to postpone the compulsory implementation of Chapter 2. And it is also true that the regulatory work in the department was planned to include proposals for relaxations which were not provided for by the law, mainly related to, for example, requirements for the nomination of cash sales to the counterparty, the requirement that cash registers be visible in order to print the receipt to the client, etc. But the essential element here is that the Storting has actually passed the law, and that is the starting point of this government. And so it's the way that the views of the Credit Authority are not new. The credit supervision was involved in the investigation of the law and had the opportunity to provide opinions on the matter as part of the legal preparation. The credit supervision, after I have been informed of this, also expressed similar views as in the letter of 28 September of this year. The previous government, the government of Bondevik, nevertheless chose to promote the bill. And a majority of Odelstinget and Lagtinget passed the current law. That's what the sitting government has been dealing with. It surprises me that those who made up the majority in dealing with the previous law have not dealt with it. I take note of that. But as responsible for following up the Bill Bill Bill, we have in fact observed that the bodies of Storting Odelstinget and Laginget have passed a law based on proposals from the Government of Bondevik, and where the decision was the result of a common position between the parties of the central government in Stortinget and the Workers' Party. We have taken that into account, and we have sought to facilitate the implementation of the law that should be as useful to the users as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e751	Odd Roger Enoksen is given the floor in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e754	I had initially not intended to participate in the debate, despite the fact that the return relates to a law presented by the Bondevik government, as the Minister of Finance points out quite correctly. In the light of Børge Brende's contributions, I did not initially find it necessary to participate in the debate. But the Minister of Finance says that he has ‘no problems to see that the law is weak’. So we also realized that, despite being part of the law. I believe that in politics, too, it is no shame to turn around when you see that the requirement for documentation, for example. is too extensive, as the Minister of Finance has obviously also realized, since simplifications have taken place, further postponement has been carried out, and it is said at the top of it all that the Minister of Finance does not have any problems in saying that the law has weaknesses – as was said by the spokesman here today. I have to say that then I have problems understanding that the Minister of Finance and the Workers' Party are so high-achieving in having the law passed with just the weaknesses that the Minister of Finance is now pointing out, when there is a law that he himself has not even been responsible for presenting, and where the parties responsible for producing the law have recognised that there is reason to review this. I have problems understanding the reasoning that the Workers' Party's Group and the Minister of Finance here are carrying to the square.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e761	I'm not sure if this is a line chord change or if it's not, but I guess that's it, that's why I find reason to answer. As I said, I have no problem seeing that the law has weaknesses. To some extent you can meet it through regulations, to some extent you can meet it by giving users more time, as we have actually suggested, and to some extent you can meet it by making changes to the laws, as we have actually done. We've been through and we've been looking at how we can meet the greatest weaknesses that might be there. However, when I'm a little surprised at the attitude of the center parties, it's with the background that there wasn't a little commitment that was put into making sure that the majority of the law for a relatively short period of time returned. And then it was also that the Workers' Party joined forces with the Centre Parties to secure a majority for it. What this government has loyally dealt with, and what the Workers' Party's Group in the UK has been dealing with, is that it is a law decision that lies there, and that the task is now to have a satisfactory implementation of it. Then, of course, I take note that you want an investigation of Chapter 2. Of course, we should do that, and the aim is to get back to Stortinget as soon as possible. But at the same time, it is important to stress that among the things that Chapter 2 reflects, there is an increased need for control, among other things. in relation to financial crime. It is important to take care of, and then it is important that the long-term legal work done in the past has not been made of any use. But as I said, I take note of the decision that is, even though I am somewhat amazed at the composition of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e772	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 222]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e786	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e800	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e811	According to the Proposition, Section 5(a) of the Animal Protection Act has been proposed to be amended primarily to clarify that the provisions of the Act on supervision and care also include domestic hygiene on grazing. A unanimous committee supports the Government's proposal. The Government's proposal for additions to the same paragraph to clarify the proper supervision and care of grazing animals has been proposed by the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party. The centre party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are pleased with it. Part of the proposed Appendix is seen as an enhanced basis for the practice of the law currently operated by the Ministry and on which there is considerable disagreement. The centre party considers that the animal protection subjects have neither, nor should have, the authority claimed by the department in predatory matters. There is the decision of the Lierne, referred to in the setting, the clearest example. The Committee has received enquiries from parent organisations, from the Association of Foreign Communities and from many animal protection subjects. These require a new legal procedure based on the assumption that predatory animal management is based on the law on predatory animals, that the loss of grazing animals is to be kept at an acceptable level with measures under that law, that animal protection subjects are not to have competence as an administrative body under the law on predatory animals, and that the public has clarified the financial responsibility for loss and for loss reduction measures in areas exposed to predatory animals. I assume that a consequence of the government's proposal to add Section 5(a) to the law will be that the government will come back with a bill that clears up the administrative and financial responsibility associated with the management of predators, and that the consequences have been investigated for businessmen and for the public. That cleanup covers far more than this law. Such a legislative proposal must be based on a political solution to the dilemma of predators, grazing animals, animal owners and land use caused by the new management of predators. Work must start with the evaluation of preventive measures against predatory injuries requested by a unanimous nutrition committee in May this year. It was even to be submitted for the current year. Neither on the issue of castration of piglets, does the Government receive support from the Workers' Party, but from the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party. Together with the Progress Party, the Right and Left, the Workers' Party issued an instruction to the Government to promote as soon as possible a new bill prohibiting animal owners from castrating pigs even during a short transitional period before a total ban could come into force. Only people with university education will be allowed to castrate piglets, and only after anaesthetic. How the majority can know that this procedure is so much better for piglets is hard to know. In fact, according to the Ministry, no country in Europe today has a total ban on castration, nor does it require university education for anyone who castrates, or the use of anesthetic when the pig being castrated is less than one month old. And the question is: why should Norway be a leading country in this area? There is no doubt that pig meat producers in Norway would like to stop castrating, for animal reasons and because that job is inexplicable in all ways. However, a time limit may be necessary to proceed with breeding and in the development of test methods so as to make slaughter with a odour of raw materials an affordable quantity for which it can be applied. I hope the department in the further work on this matter will take practical and economic considerations as well as animal protection considerations, as it is also stated in this proposition. I hope that the Working Party in Stortinget will also care about such relationships. The centre game will vote against the setting's B '.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e839	The current treatment of amendments to the Animal Protection Act and the decisions taken strengthens animal protection and animal welfare. It is important to stress that the improvement of animal health and well-being must lead to amendments to the Animal Protection Act. It's the animal welfare that must be at the center. Then we know that changes and improvements may not happen as soon as many want, as there are both practical and sometimes economic obstacles to rapid implementation. In a sense, this means that both the heart and the brain must be present in the treatment of the animal protection law. The ideal needs to be adapted to the possible. However, it is important that every step we take leads to an improvement in the legal protection, welfare and health of animals. Today’s treatment will also not be the last in the amendment to the Animal Protection Act. New research and knowledge are likely to lead to future revisions. Governments have also announced that they will launch a major review of relationships related to different animal husbandry and animal welfare. This is an important and good initiative on the part of the Council of State. Most attention in this case has been paid to castrating pigs and domestic animals, in addition to changes to Section 5a, which concerns the care and supervision of animals on pasture. However, other important changes are also adopted. It should be mentioned here that the law applies within the areas of slaughterhouses and that, in the event of a breach of the law, a fine may be granted. The penalties have been increased for very serious infringements of the Animal Protection Act and animals used for training and education have the same legal protection as animals used for research. The proposed changes to Section 5a as regards the care and supervision of grazing animals were perceived by several organisations primarily to extend the possibility for animal protection subjects to take decisions when there was an attack or a risk of attack by predators. The Ministry, on its side, has stressed that Section 5a was first proposed to amend the law to include tamrein, and that otherwise the law would not impose any additional obligations on animal owners or powers to protect animals in relation to the law of the day. It is also worth noting that the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice had, under strong doubt, assumed that tamrein was not covered by Section 5a. These differing views have led a majority in the Committee to propose an amendment to Section 5 so that it now includes tamrein indisputably. At the same time, one agrees with the Ministry's interpretation of Section 5a, that this paragraph already confers on animal protection students the power to impose the necessary requirements. In principle, castration of animals is prohibited. Then there are certain exceptions. Tamrein is to be castrated by a veterinarian by law, but the mode of operation of tamrein is such that it is necessary to allow the intervention to be carried out by persons other than a veterinarian. For pigs it is still allowed to castrate pigs that are under a week old. In the past, this law was until the pig was a month old. The procedure may be performed by a toy player and without anesthetic. In principle, it was proposed that all castration should be terminated in late 2007. A majority of the Committee considers it important to try to speed up this time, so that castration can cease before 2007. This is the background to proposal B. This proposal will lead to a re-examination of the possibilities for obtaining the ban earlier than 2007. The assessment must take into account both the economy and the feasibility of practical implementation. One assumes that both veterinary authorities, producers and others with insight into the issues are included on advice. I would like to stress that there is a great deal of consensus that a ban will be delayed in 2007. If this can be achieved before, it must be an advantage from the point of view of animal protection and, as mentioned above, it must be the animal protection that is at the heart of the treatment of the animal protection law. From the date of the promotion of a new case to the adoption of a decision, there will most likely be a transitional period before the introduction of a ban on castration. During this transitional period, it will be considered that castration of pigs is carried out by a veterinarian and with the use of anaesthetics. It is clear that this will set new requirements for the industry on the development of new methods and ways of operating. In this context, one should remember that there is a trend in other countries too that one goes more and more away from the castration of pigs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e869	The Party wants strict legislation to ensure that animals are treated with due care. We are therefore a member of the majority in the position that believes that the woes of animals must be placed in the high-seat and that Norway must be at the forefront of the work on good animal protection. The Committee has considered the issue of domestic hygiene and prudential obligations in the light of Section 5a of the Animal Protection Act. For us, it is important to stress that domestic services are also subject to prudential supervision, as defined in the applicable legislation. We understand the Government's proposal to that effect that the proposal for this in the proposal is necessary to clarify that tamrein is covered by the regulation on supervision. Today's legal text is not automatically adapted purely, and can allow for interpretation errors. It is therefore in place with an addendum to tamrein, so that no longer can be uncertain as to what is covered by the supervision provision. The legislative proposal under consideration concerns the issue of castration of pigs. According to current law, toymen can perform this operation when pigs are less than a month old and without the use of anaesthetic. Following the proposal, children’s access to castration will be limited to pigs which are no more than a week old. Furthermore, an authorisation to prohibit castration in the future has been granted. During a transitional period, castration may be required by a veterinarian and the use of anaesthetics. The Ministry of Agriculture believes that within a few years, one should have found methods to render castration unnecessary. The Party considers that it is important to adopt a more offensive position on these issues, not least in order to ensure the proper treatment of animals. We're mainly against castration of pig, because it's unnecessary. During the transitional period until a prohibition is imposed, the animals must undergo anaesthetic as pain relief during the procedure and should be carried out by a veterinarian. This opinion is supported by central bodies such as the Norwegian Veterinary Association, the State Animal Health Authority and the State Food Authority. As far as I know, only Norse pigs are skeptical about a ban on castration and that only veterinarians are to carry out the intervention during the transitional period until the introduction of a ban. The Progress Party does not wish to place a decisive emphasis on the specific interest organisation Norsvin in this context. Economic arguments cannot weigh more, because castration is a very painful surgical procedure. Pigs are subjected to intense pain during and during the hours following the procedure itself. Then there will be a period of pain. Castration of pigs generally leads to poorer health, and castrates are more prone to infection. In Europe, there is a trend away from castration. The fact is that a small percentage that is not castrated can develop a slightly different smell and taste of the meat. But the industry out there has learned to see opportunities and not just problems. From the point of view of the Progress Party, it is gratifying that a majority of the Committee calls for the cessation of castration of pigs as soon as practicable and economically possible. It is gratifying when the same majority considers that any surgical procedure deemed to be such as to cause significant pain shall be carried out by a veterinarian and by means of anaesthetic as a transitional system, until the total prohibition has been implemented. The Government will be required to promote a new proposal in line with the leadership of the majority. We hope that the Ministry will be able to promote the issue of Stortinget during the spring session 2001. It will be an important part of improving animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e886	The animals are our fellow creatures, and animal welfare is an important part of human welfare. Those who work and live by the animal's produce of values also feel with the animals as their fellow creatures. On all farms there is sorrow when it is slaughter time. My grandmother, who was a farmer all her life, said she wept over all the animals that left the farm in the butcher's car, or was drawn to the butcher's car. Nevertheless, we taught the children to touch in blood by slaughtering, and we knew where the meat came from. But someone refused to eat their friends for a period of childhood, when the truth about life's food chains went up for them. The work on amendments to the Animal Protection Act was started and sent to the consultation of the government of Bondevik. One of the main arguments was to establish that tamrein is to be covered by the Animal Protection Act. Tamrein drift is now specified in Section 5a of the Act, so that there should no longer be a difference between reindeer farming and other livestock production in the field. Nevertheless, the Committee has made it clear that there is a need to use common sense in relation to an industry which is not only able to take home its animals ‘before freezing and snow falls are waiting for the fall’, as is stated in the legal wording. Purgatory is an industry that is always driven out in nature, where the cleanness is exposed to weather and wind throughout the year, in all seasons, to danger from moving and for predators. According to the view of the Christian People's Party, one shall not be able to consider predatory loss as a lack of animal protection. In our view, this will be a privatisation of predatory policies and a state discharge for an inadequate predatory policy. With regard to the castration of adult reindeer, the Committee would stress that castration of reindeer should be permitted if necessary for the individual's reindeer operation. In my view, this is particularly true in Finnmark, where it is necessary, in the eyes of many, to operate the necessary mode of operation with long hikes between summer and winter pastures. Then the castrates are quiet animals that make the flock easier to handle. However, castration shall not be permitted without stunning and shall initially be carried out by authorised veterinarians. However, due to distance and unreasonable costs of the use of a veterinarian for such castration, the Committee will conclude that doctors should be able to obtain the necessary training and competence at sea to carry out such interventions. The government has also made a proposal. But such a system requires an investigation and will take time, and I will ask the ministry to get this very quickly in place. In order to operate in the reindeer industry adapted to such a law, there will be some time. In this respect, the Ministry must have a practical view and ensure that costs and good implementation are covered by close dialogue with professionals, managers and managers in the reindeer management environment, and also follow-up to the reindeer management agreement covering costs. It'll be demanding. Here, however, a good job must be done against the industry, otherwise the start-up can be very difficult. Such a requirement, which is clearly perceived as a cultural breach in a situation where many practitioners do not have animals to slaughter due to predator damage, does not feel like a good timing on the part of the country, and that is understandable. I believe the clarification of the inclusion of tamrein in the Animal Protection Act is important for the reputation of the industry and for the more soft cultural values and traditions of the industry. Animal welfare is rooted in the reindeer culture – only ask women. Over time, a change in the form of an increased calf's lettuce could also save bedding and veterinary costs. But again, I want to point out the actual situation for more people in reindeer operations. They have no calves to slaughter because of predator damage, so no one can pay the veterinarians. So use practical folklore when implementing the ban on the traditional methods of reindeer farming in castration! As Stortinget is located in the East, the focus has naturally been on the speed with which the ban on castration of pigs is to be implemented. The government proposed that the ban should not be imposed until 2007. We fully support this. Everyone agrees on the introduction of veterinary requirements, but we have wanted to point out that this also has a practical and economic aspect that has not been taken into account in any way. We have proposed a ‘care team’ between industry, the state and consumers, without the majority wanting to support us. As long as these realities do not find their solution, we have little confidence that good implementation is possible with the majority's timetable. If it is possible to implement it in accordance with that timetable, we are pleased with it, but we believe that the practical and economic realities will gradually go beyond the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e909	The president announced Ivar Kristiansen as the next speaker. It turns out to be wrong. It's supposed to be Ansgar Gabrielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e912	It has nothing to do with the veterinary insight of the two representatives of the Economic and Social Committee of the Right and that one appears to be better than the other. But you can sometimes feel committed to the veterinary institute when you hear the statements. As the President understands, it is not insignificant knowledge that has been gathered in the Business Committee! What is the main theme of the debate, which has been the subject of the debate that has taken place, is the castration of pigs. If the pigs – I kept saying – had been present today, there would have been 650,000 happy pigs, I think. Now they're not, so I get to talk to those who are here! What we are doing today is adopting the principle of winding up something that I would call a method of castration that is supposed to have its origin so far back that at least no one in this hall remembers it, it must be in the darkest Middle Ages, probably. The fact that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party still have the handbrake on, is by no means a great surprise, but I have understood it so that the dividing lines internally at least in the Christian People's Party have gone between women and men, who have probably had a slightly different position. That is understandable, too. The main principle of the Animal Protection Act in terms of surgical procedures and anaesthetic procedures is that there is a prohibition on surgical procedures other than those carried out by veterinarians, and there is a prohibition on doing surgical procedures without anaesthetic when it is assumed to do ‘much harm’. It is scientifically established that castration causes ‘much harm’, as stated in the consultation note of the then Bondevik government. The right took a relatively early position on this matter, and I am very pleased that we have agreed to a principle that we should introduce a ban on castration as soon as possible. We've taken animal ethics and animal welfare into account, and we've been less willing to compare to the costs of this. It must, in my opinion, be subordinate. How to do this in the end, whether to do it by ‘care team’, which is a commonly used word when you want to grant everything from the state treasury, we get back to the side. I just want to express my joy at the fact that we have achieved what we have now achieved. That no other country has adopted this, does nothing to me. That we're going forward in this area, I think I'm very good, and that promises very well. The position that we are in favour of is otherwise entirely in line with that of the Council of State of the Republic of Germany and the position of the Bondevik Government in its time in connection with the hearing opinion. Morten Lund sometimes pointed out that the Workers' Party in this setting is opposed to its State Council and against the Government. You can comment and believe that to varying degrees, but I think it looks like the Council of State is taking this very nicely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e929	The regulatory time is over in a moment. However, the President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – This is considered to be a cliché.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e932	SV will vote for all the suggestions in the setting. There are many good improvements in the animal protection law, and the consideration in the committee has made the proposals even better. I will give praise to the Workers' Party, which has the power to move even a little further than what the Government has done, and I will especially give praise to the Right for having drawn a country majority against castration of pig without anesthetic. I can see that they've done it from a point of view of value, what's right and what's wrong. The Commission's parties should have done that too, but that's kind of the starting point here. Now it's talking about economics, about how expensive this is, and everybody else is doing it, and then we have to do it too. With disbelief we have read in SV the comments of the centre parties on the castration of piglets without anesthetic. Anyone who believes that castration without anaesthesia is no worse than anaesthetic can try sail. Castration is removal of both testicles and sperm leaders. It's a serious procedure. Demanding evidence of «animal ethical gains» of ending this practice is tragic and unethical. Pigs are actually used as training objects for surgical intervention on humans because we are so similar. And then the Central Party and the Christian People's Party argue that Norway must not have a strange regime and neither separate us nor go ahead of the EU. How in the world are we to be opposed to membership of the Union because we believe that on a maritime political and ethical basis we will have the freedom to have a better policy – and to take the lead, among other things. in the fight for clean and safe food and against the dangers posed by industrial agriculture to animals, the environment and consumers – become credible when we do not use such an opportunity as we have today? Here we can go ahead, and the majority is actually there for once. I want to say, "Congratulations!" And so the Central Party and the Christian People's Party are left as political castrations. We give Norwegian agriculture an animal-ethical quality stamp today that no one else has, and there is no doubt that consumers will appreciate this. Animals to become valuable and healthy food shall not be handled as if it were a piece of wood. SV will fight for Norwegian agriculture to produce the majority of Norwegian food in the future, and we also see opportunities for export. Then we have to be better, we have to keep and increase the advantage, as the minister tends to say. Animal ethics, animal protection and the environment must be one of the main strategies of such a new, future agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e941	The President assumes that the term ‘political castrations’ does not automatically fit into the parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e945	The left considers it important that the Animal Protection Act be evaluated at regular intervals by the Storting, in order to make clarifications and implement the necessary changes. We live in a society that's changing. We are witnessing that competition and economic interests are part of everyday life. In this context, it is important to have clear legislation which provides for the appropriateness of animal protection and that an approach to matters is also based on principle. As regards the supervision and care of grazing animals, the Committee shall make a clarification of the reindeer's responsibilities in this area. For the left, one would stress that the legislation currently in place regulating the supervision and care of animals on pasture is sufficient to provide adequate protection for animals. Everyone agrees with the objective: to reduce the loss of animals on pasture due to predators. However, it has to do with the credibility of the authorities to resolve predatory conflicts on a principle basis with policy instruments and measures in this area, and not through the adapted and tightened use of existing animal protection laws. Therefore, it is important, in the view of the Left, that the Ministry should follow up the comments made by the Business Committee in the Agriculture Communication that the Government should return to the Stortinge with an evaluation of preventive measures against predatory damage. In this context, it is appropriate to consider any changes to the Animal Protection Act in areas relating to the care and supervision of grazing animals. I also refer you here to the statements by the President-in-Office. The second division of the Committee concerns the castration of pigs. As one of the last to speak in this matter, it is unnecessary to repeat the argument and the background of the majority's view. I refer here to previous articles. But I think it is positive that the government party in this case is willing to participate and adjust the Government's original position. In my opinion, the leaders put in the majority comment are forward-looking. Although the view of the majority will obviously lead to over-exploitation during a transitional period, which obviously needs to be taken into account during the agricultural negotiations, the changes in my view will lead to the long-term strengthening of the industry. It is important to stress that castration of piglets, regardless of whether anaesthetic is used, will be such a stressful and painful impact on the animal that a reinforced effort is needed in order for such interventions to become unnecessary. It is also a principle and an ethical element that surgical intervention and the use of anaesthetics are not carried out by laymen but by qualified personnel. As mentioned earlier, it must be expected that both the introduction of a total ban and the establishment of a transitional regime have both practical and economic consequences. That is why it is right that we take the time for the government to come back to Stortinget with a bill that also illuminates and takes account of these consequences. Otherwise, I would just like to end by pointing out something that has been little affected in the debate so far, namely that this treatment allows for the imposition of coercive measures in slaughterhouses. In most cases, it is more appropriate than reporting. It is even above high animal ethics standards in our slaughterhouses. It has to be. However, appropriate measures are important where animal protection is not adequately protected. A high animal ethics standard is important at all stages of the industry. It serves not least the industry itself in the long run. Finally, a remark to the representative Karin Andersen, who referred to the centre parties as a group on this occasion. I just want to show that in the case of castration of piglets, we have separated layers with our otherwise so good comrades in different political contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e960	The government is concerned with animal welfare and animal protection in a broad context. The attention given to these issues in the media and society, both in this country and internationally, also shows that this is an area that is increasingly affecting people's everyday lives. This applies both to animal welfare in general and to the ethical requirements of food production. It is on this basis that I have decided to start a broad review of relationships relating to different types of animal husbandry in our country. The goal is to clarify what kind of animal husbandry and welfare we want in the years to come. The aim is to provide the outcome of this review to the Storting in a Communication during 2002. The government believes that Norway should be in the forefront of animal protection in Europe and the amendments tabled in Ot.prp. No 68, especially with regard to the proposals on castration of pigs and tamrein, in my opinion, will strengthen our position. I am therefore pleased that the Government has largely endorsed the changes proposed. I am particularly pleased with the Committee's comments that the welfare of animals must lead the work on amendments to the Animal Protection Act and that the present proposal is considered to be a step in the right direction towards the objective of being ahead of the work on animal protection. One of the Government’s proposals intends to ensure that pasturage is covered by current provisions on the supervision and care of animals. In my view, it is important to clarify the uncertainty about the interpretation of the law at this point. I am therefore pleased that the Committee agrees that tamrein on pasture was intended to be covered by the existing provision and therefore agrees with the Government that there is a need for clarification. I take note that the Committee considers that the clarification can be met by adding the words «including tamrein» in the first sentence of Section 5(a) and that the second paragraph of Section 5(a) may be deleted. In my view, the intention of the Government's proposal could be met by the changes it has promoted, although I could have wished for a more detailed clarification on my own behalf in line with the Government's proposal. I would like to stress that the Government believes that today's law requires that animal owners provide for the supervision of all animals, regardless of the conditions to which these animals may be exposed, also apply to small ruminants who go free on field pastures. Similarly, animal welfare professionals have an obligation to supervise and impose on them any circumstances which cause the suffering of the animals. As regards the castration of pigs, the Committee proposes that the Government return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a legislative proposal based on the observations in the Committee's position. The Committee considers that the introduction of a ban on castration from 2007 is not sufficient. I interpret this in such a way that the Committee asks the Government to introduce a ban before this time and that stunning is also important in relation to the transitional period. The government considered that this transitional period was necessary for the industry to find practical and economic solutions with which it can live. The government will review both the practical and economic aspects of the matter on the basis of the majority's premise, and will return to the Stortinge during the spring session with a new proposition. I note that on this basis the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal for legislative changes. Finally, I am pleased that the Committee has joined the other amendments without any comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e983	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e986	I am of the opinion that those who care most about the animals' woe and well are those who are keepers of animals in Norway – who feed the animals daily and who depend on them to thrive. When it is then manufactured as if today’s Norwegian animal husbandry contain elements of animal plague – which must be stopped immediately – I think it is dry. And that's when today's way of keeping pigs on we're discussing now. I want the Council of State also to confirm that today's way of castrating pigs is not to be regarded as animal harassment. The centre party is involved in a comment where we refer to statements from those that I would like to believe can be the most useful in assessing what's the worst. So these are the statements we've been referring to, because we don't have much else to stick to. And from that we have supported what was the Government's plan for a transitional period, which means that castration should be banned, but that we should have stricter rules in a transitional period. Otherwise, I would like to take the opportunity to refer to the observation in the Norwegian position on agriculture and food production that stated that we would have a feedback report on preventive measures against predatory damage. That there is animal plague for the grazing animals that are being affected, I don't think there is any disagreement about, and it's important to reduce this. A deadline was set for the current year for the Government to present a case on the prevention of predator damage. How is the Government's timetable for that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e998	I think the representative Lund is right that we have a peasantry in Norway that places great emphasis on keeping animals in a way that makes animal protection and animal welfare stand in the high seat. That's why we also have a good standard in these areas, and that's not just because we have a good law, but that we actually have practitioners in the industry who put great emphasis on it. That's definitely my main impression, too. So, of course, in all areas there are no rules without exceptions, but the main impression is absolutely that we have a good standard in the Norwegian peasantry. Of course, castrating pigs today cannot be defined as animal abuse or violation of existing standards and legislation, because it takes place under the laws and regulations that exist. But then in this area, as in all other areas, society is not static. Things change, we get new knowledge, new research. At all times, new ethical standards are being set and, not least, we have had a situation in which, fortunately, consumers are increasingly entering into important areas, including agriculture and within our animal protection system. That's why I think it's right that we're now thinking about the future, and I think that one of the areas where we should tighten up the law is just related to the question of castration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1005	I would like to draw the attention of the SV representative to the fact that everyone is voting for the bill we are going to vote on today. It is also known that the Christian People's Party has considerable sympathy for the majority's proposal, and I do not ignore the fact that the Christian People's Party will join it when the matter is to be voted on in the Storting. But the reason we've been critical is that the Storting has made it a sport to impose without paying. I have a question for the minister: When does he think he can come back to Stortinget with legislative proposals, and when can we implement the ban? Or to put it another way: how long shall piglets continue to be castrated without anesthetic? The second question is, how should the ban on domestic drainage be implemented? It is this proposal that may involve the most dramatic change in use.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1014	On the first question, I said in my post that the government is aiming to make a new proposition on the issues of Stortinget during the spring session. What we will then consider is whether it is possible, based on our best judgement, to speed up the deadline for a general ban on castrating pigs. As I said, in the proposition we have promoted, we propose the year 2007. We have now received a clear order from the majority in Stortinget to try to work with a view to that date being set earlier. But we'll come up with a more detailed assessment of that in the proposition that comes in the spring. At the same time, we take inwards that we must promote a legal text that implies that, whether this transitional period is shorter or as long as the one we had originally proposed, it must be such that until the general prohibition is implemented, only castration with anesthetic and carried out by a veterinarian is to be carried out. That's what we're going to do during the spring session, and we're already doing that work. So to the second question related to how we're going to implement the changes for tamrein. As soon as the proposal is adopted today, we have to work on the regulation. I listened with great interest to the post that Randi Karlstrøm himself held in the debate earlier today. I thought there was a lot of good input into how to take practical action in this work towards an industry that, and where I share Karlstrøm's assessment, has a somewhat different starting point than the general livestock farm in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1023	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1028	I have listened with great interest to the business committee's debate on this matter, and it has become apparent to me that it also has an educational policy aspect. The head of the Industry Committee repeated several times in his main post that it was worrying that university education should be required to castrate piglets. Now I have not realized that it is university education in general that qualifies in this field. I've perceived it as education from a scientific college, the veterinary college. It may make it a little less worrying for the head of the nutrition committee. From joke to serious. – What amazes me most in this matter is the position of the Christian People’s Party in the picture. The party tends in general to be very concerned with ethics, and I assume that it also includes animal ethics. It is surprising that economic and practical reasons for appropriateness are given greater emphasis than the need to avoid causing unnecessary suffering to animals. Whether it is animal harassment to castrate pigs or not becomes a relatively uninteresting debate. What is certain is that it is to cause unnecessary suffering to animals. Therefore, I should have liked to have heard a more detailed reason why the Christian People's Party believes that it is possible from purely economic, commercial considerations to take such a position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1040	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1048	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1087	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1096	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1102	During the debate Bjørn Hernæs, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Centre, presented the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a system in cases where young people aged 12 to 15 are committing criminal offences, so that in these cases conflict management will always be carried out unless it is insulted to do so or otherwise.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1184	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1193	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1231	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1240	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1246	During the debate, Mr Øye presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1263	The President will first vote on the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left in relation to Sections 2 to 1 and 2 to 7. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 17 July 1998 No 56 on annual accounts, etc. the fourth sentence of the third paragraph of Section 2-1 is amended as follows: 4 shall be replaced by the following:4. current and concluded contracts relating to the activity.’;» [[Accounting Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1324	The President will then vote on the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left in the case of § 9-1. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 9-1 shall be replaced by the following:The Ministry may, in its regulation, derogate from the provisions of the first paragraph of Section 2-1, first sentence of Section 2-3, first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 2-6 and the first and third sentence of the second subparagraph of Section 2-7.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1352	The President will make a mistake in setting: the text 'and the third' sentence is out. Paragraph 9-2, first paragraph, contains a different proposal from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 9-2 shall be replaced by the following:From 1 January 2002, the accounting officer may choose to use the rules on the recording and documentation of accounting information laid down in Law No 13 May 1977. 35 with regulations instead of those laid down in Chapter 2 of the Act. ‘... [[bookkeeping]] Alternatively, the second and third sentences of the first paragraph of the adjustment shall be replaced by the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party to the second sentence of the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1496	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1506	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1516	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1592	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1601	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1767	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1776	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-lower-2.ana.ud2461e1786	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
