ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e24	Today, the Stortinget shall decide on the drafts submitted by the Ministry to adjust the fees for the current year. A total of 58 chapters have been proposed. The Committee's plurality, all except the Progress Party, is in line with the vow changes. Another plurality, the members of the Progress Party, the Right and the Center Party, points out that in June this year the Stortinget adopted a clarification of the legal text in relation to applications for approval by private sculelova §3a and 3b, and specifically refers to the application from the Oasen Barneskule in Songdalen. Following a refusal by the Ministry, this case is for the handling of complaints, and the majority have suggested that the handling of complaints be completed immediately. There may be grounds to ask if this matter is relevant to the content of this proposition, but once the comment has been included in the setting, a debate on this topic is not avoided. In this respect, it is said that the learning material used by ACE schools today was transferred from the Department to the Equality Office for Assessment. The gender equality survey concluded that these learning materials were contrary to the principle of gender equality and thus a violation of the equality law. I am aware that ACE Norway has filed this case with the Complaints Board for Equality. And I find it a little strange that the majority now asks that the complaint case be completed immediately, even though the complaint subject for equality has not yet taken a decision on whether these learning material violates today's equality law. Another area where you can focus on is a cap. 228, which relates to the quality development of the ground floor. In concrete terms, this is a matter of testing and development with the alternative allocation of hours at the youth stage. There may be indications that this measure has been poorly known or that various unfortunate circumstances have made it possible for the revised budget to be clarified a little too late for the municipalities to get this into their planning for autumn 2000. The majority are aware that the Department and the State Education Office are now in dialogue with the municipalities on such important trials. I expect that the other parties will do well for their comments later in the debate, and I would advise the Stortinget to make a decision in line with the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e45	In relation to this case, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are many transactions here. Many of them are such that you might think they were unnecessary. They're not very big. But the Progress Party has concentrated on one of these transactions, namely the transfer from the Cape. 243, which relates to centres of excellence, to municipalities, which thus receive a grant of almost 100 million. kr. We find it strange that it should be possible to troubleshoot as much as 100 million. kr on a budget chapter which has been kept understated throughout the year. And we probably feel more that this is a wild reduction over time, more than a minor consumption, which is completely realistic. In this respect, we promote the proposal included in the vote on page 3. Furthermore, I would like to refer to what has been taken up from the Oasen Children's School, and draw attention to the fact that the Oasen has been knowingly informed in writing that they are going to use approved teaching materials at this school, so that the reference from the representative Upbeøen Hansen would be completely unnecessary in this context. However, I assume that the representative will explain this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e54	Ursula Evje has addressed the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e57	It is clear from today's newspaper in an interview with the chairman of the committee, Ranveig Frøiland, that she has no objection to the Oasen case being completed as soon as possible. And she also states that she presupposes that the Council of State must of course complete the matter. It's reassuring. Because this means that, despite the party’s submission of a separate remark on the matter, the Labour Party agrees with what the majority says, namely that half a year should be sufficient for a review procedure – especially when it has been possible to adopt a conversion decision in 10 days’ time. In the majority’s observations on this matter, it is noted that it is important that applicants for authorisation under Norwegian law can count on non-discrimination, fair treatment and predictable treatment. The majority found it necessary in June this year to clarify the legal text in order to make it quite clear that the main rationale used to convert the Oasen Children's School approval decision is not in accordance with the law. It's made clear. When the Council of State has found reason to initiate a more comprehensive treatment of the Opinions of the Equality Ombudsman on teaching materials used by ACE schools, he is, of course, in his good right to do so. On the other hand, he is not in his good right when he uses it as a pretext to delay the handling of the complaint. It has been clarified in the course of the case that the outcome of the treatment of the role played by the Equality Ombudsman may not in any case have an impact on the outcome of the handling of the complaint. Indeed, it has been made clear from the applicant's point of view, in all cases twice in writing to the Ministry, that the applicant will, in any event, comply with the outcome of that treatment. The Administrative Act requires public authorities to deal with complaints against decisions taken by the same body without undue delay. What has happened in this case is an unnecessary delay, as far as the outcome of the complaint is not under any circumstances affected by the treatment of the other case. It appears from a State Council opinion in the Federation’s friend today that he does not intend this time to place any significant emphasis on what the majority of the population believes in dealing with approval cases under the private school law. It seems to me to be a rather astonishing form of boldness, for it is still part of our parliamentary system that the Councils of State are complying with what is clearly expressed as majority opinion in this Chamber. I hope that the Council of State will follow up what is in the clear majority opinion of the Committee. This case has been pending for too long, and there is no argument whatsoever to take additional time to decide a case as transparent as this case is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e68	This article was very interesting. That Inge Wohnning can say from this pulpit that it has nothing to do with the approval of private schools if they comply with Norwegian law or not, it is quite alarming. The thing is, these schools, the ACE schools, or call it what you want, use teaching materials that the Equality Ombudsman believes are contrary to Norwegian law. I have sent a complaint. The appeal shall be dealt with in a normal, ordinary manner. And that wouldn't matter if these schools were to be approved and given state subsidies? If the complainant agrees with the Equality Ombudsman that they use teaching materials that are contrary to Norwegian law, then it is clear – and I believe that the Right also agrees – that these schools should not be approved and should not receive state subsidies as long as they use that type of teaching material. I hope that Inge Wohnung and Right agree. This is a matter that we've been doing for a long time, not exactly the Oasis, but we've had a lot of things about these schools up here in the Storting several times earlier. And every time it's been said that the teaching material they use is nobody that's so far questioned. The Equality Ombudsman has now done so, and it must be quite clear that the Council of State should and should wait for the review process and thus be told whether this teaching material is contrary to Norwegian law. And if it is, as I said, contrary to Norwegian law, this school – and probably the other schools that use the teaching material – should not, of course, have State subsidies. I hope we can agree on that, because as long as we have Norwegian law, we have to assume that these schools relate to Norwegian law and use teaching materials that comply with the requirements laid down in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e75	I understand less and less about the case management in this country, because now the Storting has begun to deal with individual matters in the storeroom, and then there is a bit of a strange assessment when it comes to how a case should be handled. And when the representative on the payroll says that there is nothing to say about the outcome in the case if there is someone who has appealed, and if there is someone who has pointed out that one does not comply with the law – and that has done the Equality Ombudsman – I think it will be very strange to handle matters. But I'm not going to go into the case because the department is able to handle it very well. That someone thought it was sad not to be in the departments and handle matters, I understand. But as it is today, there is a government from the Labour Party that sits there, and when in some cases there are complaints, they take the complaints seriously and will of course also deal with them in a proper way. And when the Equality Ombudsman has pointed out that the teaching material is not in line with Norwegian law, it must be handled properly. We can say what is a follow-up in Stortinget: everything that is taught in schools here in the country should be in line with Norwegian law. But then it's up to the department to make sure it's done. There must also be no doubt that the ministry will do so as soon as possible, of course they will, but they will have to do so in a defensive way. When dealing with a complaint, they must pay attention to all the concerns that a complaint and a seeker have the right to handle. And when you say here that the seeker is going to go after the outcome, you should just be missing that one shouldn't do that when it's Norwegian law. But I still think that here, one must use the time needed to handle the complaint in a defenceable way – those who complain have a right to do so. And there is nothing to prevent this from happening as soon as possible, but one must ensure the necessary care. And I have to repeat once again that when the representative says that there is nothing to say about the outcome of such a case, whether a person is complying with Norwegian law or not, then I am almost shocked. Because it is clear that if a school has teaching materials that are contrary to Norwegian law, someone has to take care of it, the Stortinget cannot do that, and there must be consequences for both state support and approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e84	I do not know if it is possible to hear visions, but the representative Reikvam had obviously heard something that I have not said. Of course, I assume that Norwegian law is followed in all schools in this country. That's also explicitly stated in the majority opinion, if you would have liked to read it. It says: ‘The majority assume that Norwegian law is followed by this school as is the case for all other schools. The majority have taken note of the applicant’s clarification.’» It is an obligation for the ministry to ensure that there is continuous supervision of all schools in this country, both public and private, and, of course, that what is going on at school is in accordance with Norwegian law. It was just supposed to be missing. What I have pointed out is that it is purely arbitrary to include this argument in the treatment of a complaint from a single school that has been withdrawn from the approval it originally received. What the majority do is not to deal with a single matter, but to express clear criticism of the way in which the Council of State has dealt with a single matter. It must be within the scope of the Big One's mission, I believe. We have pointed out two things, first of all that there is a totally unfair relationship between the time spent by the Council of State to intervene in the case enough to withdraw the authorisation that was granted – 10 days – and the time spent assessing the complaint without giving the complainant any reply. And the other thing we've pointed out is that in this case, the complainant has said twice in writing to the department clearly and unequivocally that in any case, one is going to comply with what is the outcome of the treatment of the role played by the Equality Ombudsman. Here, one of two can happen: either the complainant’s subject matter gives the Equality Ombudsman support in his interpretation of the law – if so, the applicant has said that the applicant will comply with it – or the complainant’s subject does not agree with the Equality Ombudsman’s interpretation of the law, and if so, it is quite obvious that this is a passport that cannot be used to withdraw the approval of the application. It has to be a task for the Norwegian Trade Union Committee to ensure that applicants are treated fairly, and that they are treated somewhat in the same way when there are clear legal provisions on how to proceed with regard to the approval of private schools. Claiming that the majority in its note devalues Norwegian law is with respect to notifying the blank futility. The majority have stated that in this case, the applicant has stated clearly and clearly that it will comply with the outcome of the examination of the case. And then there is no administrative basis for further training with reference to this argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e98	Without considering the time spent in the proceedings, we are now in a situation where a school has applied for recognition and is also receiving state subsidies. At the same time, there is an assessment of the teaching material to be used by this school, and the Equality Ombudsman has considered that part of this teaching material is contrary to Norwegian law, the Equality Act. It was supposed to be lacking that the Council of State, when assessing this, should not take this into account and withdraw it. This has nothing to do with arbitrariness, it has to do with the responsibility he has to base his judgements on the recognition of a school. If he didn't, I'd venture to make the claim that he didn't do his job. If he did not take into account the fact that there is a statement from the Equality Ombudsman saying that the teaching material they are going to use is contrary to Norwegian law. If he did not pay attention to this when he was going to assess this school, he does not do his job according to the law. This has nothing to do with the time used in advance and in retrospect, this simply has to do with the fact that there is information in relation to the assessment and approval of this case that suggests that there is a teaching material that is contrary to Norwegian law. When Inge Wohnning says that this has nothing to do with the assessment of the case, what I said was alarming. And I still think it is alarming if this is not to be emphasized in connection with the approval of that school and that pedagogy. In my opinion, if this teaching material is contrary to Norwegian law and the subject of complaints, it also means that it has to have consequences for other schools that use that type of teaching material. It's quite clear that they have to change this, send it in and say how they change it, and if they don't do it in a way that can be accepted, it obviously has to have consequences for the state subsidy to those schools that use that type of teaching material. If not, then simply don't do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e105	In the debate that Rolf Reikvam is now drawing up, no one is saying that the Council of State should not comply with Norwegian law or do a decent job, but the majority point out that the application must be dealt with on the basis that it has come up with. The majority also focus on following Norwegian law, and we'll take that as a matter of course. But it doesn't necessarily have the consistency that the representative Rikham adds. It may also have the consequence that a person does so, where appropriate, the Equality Ombudsman asks, namely that the learning material be changed, and imposes it as a premise. It may or may not have been detached from an authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e110	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e114	Sometimes it's obviously necessary to use teaspoons, even though there should be enough with a little bit bigger tools. What has been established in this case is that the follow-up of the Equality Ombudsman's assessment of this teaching material cannot be considered to have any significance for the handling of the complaint. The Council of State could, of course, come to the conclusion that he is following the complaint, provided that the applicant corrects what, in the opinion of the Equality Ombudsman, needs to be corrected. The check is that it has already been declared by the applicant – in writing and in a binding manner – twice. And then you have to be allowed to ask what kind of thoroughness the department is doing in proceedings, when you don't put any emphasis on what the applicant himself explicitly stated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e121	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Case No. 3 was debated together with case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e137	I won't spend long on this. I shall refer to the Committee's recommendation and recommendation. I would also like to point out that the committee has been divided into a majority and a minority. The majority consists of the representatives of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party, who are behind the recommendation, while a minority from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Left and the SV are behind a minority proposal, to which I shall come back. In short, the issue is how to dispose of any income from future sales of State shares in Telenor. The entire Committee agrees that Telenor has played a central role in the construction of Norwegian telecommunications technology and also agrees that it has actually contributed in the field of research. The dividing line comes at the point where the majority believes that when one saw selling, these revenues should be made available under a 90-item government budget, while the minority wants to make a principal mark, that parts of a sale should be set aside for increased investment in information and communication technology research. On this basis, the minority has put forward a proposal that I would like to raise, as I have previously referred to the committee's suspension and recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e148	Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e151	The case spokesperson did so well for the plural's view as well that it is not really necessary to say anything. But from the Labour Party's side, I still just want to say the following: Any stockroom should and we have the opportunity to come back to many times, but here is some principle that it is important to establish: firstly, we do not have money until we have sold axles, and secondly, we follow the guidelines when it concerns budgetary work in general. Nor do we dispose of income independently of the budget and, where appropriate, of the sale. And if it were to be excess, or how much money it would be if we sold, we don't know. In relation to budgetary practice, we have to make the funds available every year when we look at the soundness of the budget. Let me also say when it relates to the objective of the proposal to use more for research and development, that it is both a good idea and a good proposal that we should take into account in ordinary budgetary management. I have been in the process of casting down some of these proposals before because there are some principles in relation to how we are going to run budgeting here in the house. I think we spend a lot of time on just such proposals as one knows is going down, so it's my call that research, education and development we should take care of in the ordinary budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e160	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1248]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e174	Now, about six months have passed since the Odelstinget managed changes in training laws, including: decided that all adults born before 1 January 1978 should be entitled to further training if they have not completed such training in the past. This is a positive and important right, for which the Labour Party has been fighting for many years. In Ot.prp. No 44 for 1999-2000, which was the document on which this issue was handled, the Government made it clear that, in the case of further training for adults, the hearing draft would not add up to changes in relation to what was already followed by today’s legislation. Odelstingen had no comments on this. The Committee’s plurality has assessed Document No. The 8th proposal by Rolf Reikvam, on free of charge, is based on the concern of the grown-ups themselves and the concerns of the counties. I agree that the principle of equality implies that the adults in a separate race should also be covered for their travel expenses. The reason why a multiple will not be allowed to do so now is, among other things. uncertainty about the costs. The reform of the adults started in the fall, and it is still too early to say how many will benefit from this right. The Committee has also examined in the Ministry, through a written question, whether there may be measures in the Equation Act to allow the use of commuting deductions on the self-declaration of the distance joining and leaving the place of education. The Ministry of Finance answers that such a deduction of expenditure is not possible with the legislation we have today. The majority of the Committee is not, as I said, opposed to the proposal for an extended right to cover school pillows, but will wait for one to have a little more experience with this right. On this basis, the majority will be asked to reject the document proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e191	The right to secondary education for adults was and is an important educational policy reform. It's a reform that SV and the Workers' Party have agreed on, and that we got a majority six months ago, as Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen described. In the state budget for the next year, compensation has been provided for the county municipality for approx. 2000 adult students. That's what the majority in this hall will take advantage of this right. The vast majority of the Grand Duchy has said that in the introduction of the right for adults to secondary education, the county must have full compensation, and compensation has been provided in the general framework of 2000 students. So we know a little bit about how many we're going to take advantage of this right. I fear that we have been too modest, and that we should have added more. I also refer to the SV's draft budget, where we assume that more people will avail themselves of this right, and we have provided compensation for it. If we're going to be able to stimulate adults to use this right, we're going to have to facilitate the conditions for them. We need to be aware that there are many adults who have an aversion to education and have a difficult relationship with this. They may have experienced loss situations in relation to school and education. And if we're going to be able to draw these into school -- and that's what we want -- give them skills, give them the opportunity to continue studying, we have to at least make the best possible arrangements for them. And we have to make arrangements so that they can cover their real expenses – in this case transport costs. I think that's absolutely necessary if adults are to be able to avail themselves of this right. It is unreasonable that we distinguish between those who follow the ordinary course and those who, for example, choose a compressed course. Many of these adults have an experience and a real competence that means that they'll be able to cut short for part of the education, and it's natural that they go into compressed races. We also want to stimulate them to assess their real skills and get an organized setup within a compressed race. But at the moment they get it and don't follow a regular race, they don't have the right to cover their cloud expenses. For most people in this room, this must be obviously unreasonable. We have to do something about this, and that is what is in our proposal. I will deal with that proposal, as indicated in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e206	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he himself referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1248]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e224	The reason I have found it necessary to report this interview is that there has been considerable uncertainty about the work on regulations under the new Training Act. Uncertainty is not implicitly strengthened by a record in School Focus No. 19 this year from a lecture by the Council of State held at the extraordinary National Government meeting of the Teachers' Union. Under the somewhat paradoxical title ‘Giss with an outstretched hand’ the following is read here: «Requirements concerning the reform of competences will probably be in place around the New Year. – We need to provide regulations that call for the school and county councils in this work, says Giske. He did not realize that Storting’s wording ‘other actors’ can mean private schools: – There is a tough round with Stortinget about what ‘other actors’ mean,’ said the Council of State, which is opposed to private schools. – I intend to fight against the dawning privatisation, and I hope I have the Teacher Union with me. He characterized private schools, or fresh schools as the Swedes call them, as equal rights: – I fear we will get a new kind of fresh schools if the private school system is released: schools that are free of diversity, free of equality, and other things we think it is worth fighting for.’ There are many notable aspects to these statements, including: the combination of different categories of private schools at different levels of the school system. But the most remarkable thing is that a close interpretation of what the Council of State has said in this lecture is that he wants to challenge the Storting to rematch in understanding what the Storting has meant by what was said in the treatment of the new training law. As far as I can understand, there's no doubt about what the mass mass has meant. The majority of the population have explicitly stated that the counties, when they follow the responsibilities laid down by the law to ensure that adults are granted the right to secondary and primary education if they do not already have it, are free to make use of it. ‘study associations, distance learning establishments and others providing primary and secondary education in order to fulfil the obligation to provide training to adults’. There is no shadow of doubt that the bulk of the population has considered that the various training providers in this area should be treated equally by the county. There was some disagreement in the treatment of the new training law by Stortingen when it came to the question of the right to an examination for institutions that do not belong to the public school. But also on this point, the majority has made a clear statement: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, has noted that the legislative proposal provides the basis for a regulation laying down detailed rules on the requirements for the competence of teaching staff. The majority agree that persons without formal pedagogical competence, but with equivalent real competence, can also be added as teachers. Persons with long experience in adult education are important resource persons in adult education." And then the crucial point is: "However, the majority would point out that providers who are given the opportunity to provide positions or other forms of formal competence must have approved teachers." So the opening given by the majority of the population to get rid of the right to put stand marks more or less loose in the market is very conditional and very intrusive. The reasons for this should be entirely up to date. It is a general principle of legal certainty that all pupils should be treated equally. To date, there has also been a clear principle in Norwegian school policy that the right to set positions depends on the fact that formal competence is questionable, and also that the education authorities responsible for overseeing it are overseeing that this right is managed in a satisfactory manner. It is important that the regulations to be provided on the basis of the Training Act and on the basis of the treatment of the Training Act by Storting actually reflect what is the position of the majority of the population. The position of the majority of the sizes is that operators should be treated equally, in principle so that private operators can rely on the use of the well-established institution that has been there for a long time to determine whether real competence exists, namely the Privatist Examination. The Privatist Examination has its origins precisely in the desire to have access to evidence of real competence without necessarily having followed the regular arrangements in public schools. It is free to submit to this test, and the test is the most objective test we have in determining whether the real competence is actually present. It is important that the regulations given do not leave any doubt that the county council is responsible, that the county council is obliged by the Stortinges to treat all providers in the same way, and that the school authorities are obliged to supervise the administration of the law in a satisfactory manner. At these points there have been differing views of what is meant by the draft regulations that have been sent out, and therefore I meet with great interest how the Council of State will interpret these regulations. I also attend with great interest the Council of State’s assessment of whether the draft regulations are in line with what the Stortinget has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e264	The county council is responsible for the individual adult’s right to secondary education under the Education Act Chapter 4A. The county council is free to use other providers to fulfil its obligations towards adults. It is the county itself that chooses to do so, for example. shall be a private secondary school or a study association. The county may also choose to use only its own institutions. The county council is responsible for giving everyone an offer. This also applies to the content of the offer, even if they choose to let others do the teaching. This means, among other things: the county must ensure that the basis for the assessment of the individual is the training objectives as reflected in the curricula. A good quality assurance of the position assessment is a prerequisite for maintaining a national assessment system. However, this does not prevent some other providers from setting their positions. In June of this year, I sent draft new provisions for the assessment of adults at the hearing. On the basis of what appeared in the hearings, I will shortly lay down rules. I have reason to believe that not all adults would like to have a training offer where an assessment with a stand-up character is given. In the regulation, I would therefore like to state that if the adult wishes to do so, the county municipality can provide training which ends with the examination as a private individual. In this context, I believe that the regulation will meet the requirements of the Stortinget on the equal treatment of various training offers, the objective assessment of the students' competence and the quality assurance of the various offers. I also believe that the regulation will ensure the flexibility required by the whole reform of competence and the right of adults to higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e277	I thank the Council of State for the answer. On one essential point, the answer was very satisfactory. I understood the council so that in the final regulations he will clarify that the county council is also free to use private operators in line with others. Then the possible ambiguity is cleared of the road. The Council of State also said in general that he was concerned with quality assurance in connection with the access of other providers, as he said, to the setting of positions. In principle, we agree on that point as well. But what I didn't get a clear answer to is whether the regulation will also follow up on this point the majority of people said when they dealt with the Training Act, namely that an explicit prerequisite for this is that the staff responsible for teaching have fully recognised competence. There was the majority's clearly expressed opinion in the position on the training law, and also on that point I would very much like to have a confirmation that this will be followed up in the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e286	I really do not believe that any disagreement that the representative has perceived during our examination of the regulations – where now that opinion has come from – in and separately is so important. I think we share the view that the position character should be put with a quality assurance, that there should be legal certainty – I don't know if we should end up in the courtroom with the characters – at least that there should be a level playing field in setting positions, what requirements we should set in relation to it, and to what extent we should demand learning skills. You can imagine that one and the same institution has several types of teachers. All teachers are to have learning skills, or you can imagine different teachers with different backgrounds in one or the same institution or association or private school etc.? There are many different variants here. I think we should be able to make regulations that ensure all the reasons that we have to take for the individual to receive good training, and that the safety measures relating to both quality and non-discrimination, to which the representative on which the salary is concerned, are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e293	The representative, Inge Wohnung, is here raising a problem which, in my opinion, has been resolved some time ago. The size of the population has been expressed at several times in relation to the problem of continuing training reform at this point as well. In the Action Plan for the reform of skills jointly developed by all cooperating partners, all are concerned that the aim is to adapt training provision better to the needs of adults, including those with disabilities. by open and flexible forms of training. The Stortinget has also joined – yes, even using the workplace as a learning venue. In addition, provision shall be made for people with very different intentions. I can include reading and writing problems, the unemployed, the disabled, linguistic minorities, etc. When the Committee considered the budget for the current year, a unanimous committee stressed the importance of institutional and organisational responsibility for ensuring that the reform would become a reality, especially for those groups that had not previously had access to continuing training. The Committee also pointed out that the new training groups in many areas would need entirely different types of education than traditional ones. The majority were very clear that the study association had an important role to play in the reform, and recalled that the study association lost its right to study in continuing training in 1997 when all the old vocational plans for previous §20 courses were withdrawn as a result of Reform 94. In this context, the majority said that the Government was asked to introduce limited examination rights for a transitional period for study associations and distance learning institutions that are conducting training at the continuing school level. As I understand the law enforcement of the adult's right to further training, there is no doubt that the county council is fully responsible for the training. But they're free to use different organizers. I also expect them to do so that the reform's intention to adapt training provision is met. It goes without saying that the provision of training must be organised in such a way that there is a legitimate basis for setting the status quo for those who want it. My interpretation of this is that there is also no delimitation of existing private-sector schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e310	This matter is basically a result of poor political craftsmanship on the part of the Council of State. Actually, we just needed to establish that the individual has the right to secondary education, and that there are some who are responsible for providing this training, i.e. give the right to individual adults, and then impose an obligation on the county to provide such training. It was completely unnecessary to frame up some organisations that could be used on the supply side, as the Council of State suggested in the proposition. It was clear that this was manna from heaven for some who were occupied by private operators in this market. We, who have worked a little at county level, know that the county councils cooperate with different actors who provide secondary school education, and they have done so for quite a long time. So for that reason, it was completely unnecessary to mention anything in the proposal for a law, for this had been done in a natural way with a right and with an obligation, without going further into who could be used for this. But the accident was done. A majority of the Stortinget got what they wanted. I feel that what the Council of State has put up here is in line with what the majority wanted, and I guess it has also clarified Inge Wage. But there is one problem area that, in my opinion, is at least as interesting, and which also Inge Wohnung and others should be concerned about. If a county municipality that has an obligation to provide education refers a student to a commercial secondary school that does not have a right to study, which does not have the right to stand, and says that that is the offer it has to them, is the obligation then fulfilled? That, I think, is a pretty interesting question. This means that this student will have a training situation in which he will have to undergo some examinations, quite a number of examinations, which he would otherwise not have had to pass if he had attended a school that has the right to take a stand and thus has the right to an examination. That seems to me to be an interesting problem from the point of view of the questioner. In terms of pay and right are the most concerned about defending and securing these offers, these private actors, these private providers, while we should really be concerned about the individual student's situation. But as I said, as the Council of State now adds, it seems that the majority have got what they want, and here private providers, commercial providers, are to be equated with other important successors and the demands made by the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e328	Like the representative Upbeøen Hansen, I believe that the very essence of this matter has been clarified, with a written supplementary response of 3 November this year to a written question from me. The Council of State today reiterates that the county municipality is free to use other providers to fulfil its obligations towards adults, just as it also states in the supplementary response. It is also the county that chooses the providers. When I took the floor, it was to comment a little on what the Council of State said in relation to approval requirements to set positions. Here the government replied that it is the individual teacher, team or who it should be at the institution that could do it. I'll probably give it advice that the person or people responsible for setting positions have recognised competence, simply because if it's not clear, then there's doubt about the whole point of view. So that's where I think the Council of State is wise to have a level of precision that is linked to the recognition of competence by the person or persons responsible for setting the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e337	Sometimes interpellations lead to a clear and unambiguous result. This time, only at the end of the debate, I would like to note that there seems to be considerable consensus in this Chamber both on the understanding of what has been done in the past in relation to the treatment of the Training Act and on what the regulations should look like in order to follow this up. What I am particularly pleased about is that the Council of State has made it quite clear that the final regulations are not going to operate with an absolute distinction between schools that offer a stand-up and schools that do not offer a stand-up. It's a significant clarification. I would like to make it clear to the representative, Mr Requam, that my concern in this regard is not primarily the interests of the operators, but the interests of the users. There are many different categories of users of this type of offer. Some prefer to apply to schools that have the right to set their stand. Others prefer – and there may be many different reasons – the type of schools that do not, and that do not want to do so, because they base their entire business on the best possible preparation of people to attend the private examination. In our view, the aim of the reform of competences should be to ensure maximum diversity and to ensure that all categories of users of the existing right are satisfied as far as possible. I am pleased that it has now been established that the regulations will make it clear that the county council here is not only free, but will treat the different categories of applicants and the different categories of providers in a non-discriminatory manner. Let me finally say that I fully agree with the interpretation given by the representative Lyngstad from the quality assurance point of view. There can be no doubt that teachers who have the right to set positions — because individual teachers do so in practice — need to be fully competent. I would also like the Council of State to confirm that he agrees with this interpretation of the quality assurance requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e350	First, the question of which providers should be used by the county in its offer of secondary education for adults. The representative on the pay side spoke of non-discrimination. I'm also a member of that. But we also need to clarify what is contained in ‘equal treatment’. I said in my first post that the county council is free to use its own schools and services if it chooses. So here the county has a free choice in relation to how it wants to put this up within the framework that lies, and that the regulations of course will set. So if you think – as the Right often does – a kind of tendering system or the cheapest offer or a kind of competition principle, then of course it's not something that I'm a follower of. That was not the answer I first gave. Just so that it's clarified. Then to stand-up characters. I have noticed – as it is called – the views that have come from both Lyngstad and Wage, and will take them further with me in the work that we are now doing, in order to complete the regulations. I share the view that you have here that it is important to have quality assurance in relation to the position characters. I also share the view on non-discrimination and on predictability and legal certainty in relation to positions. So I am convinced that we should come up with solutions that are satisfactory. But I want to say the following: I think that the whole reform of competences and the offer of higher education for adults is quite challenging for anyone who has worked on school policy for many years, because it involves something new in many ways. We get a whole new group of people going in and getting a training that has previously been largely reserved for people who have been sitting on the school bench. It will require a lot of county councils, both in terms of developing flexible offers, alternative learning venues and alternative communication between teachers and learners. I think that here we have a lot of new work to do, where we have to think new, where we have to think flexibly, and where we have to have the person to learn, in the center of what we do, and not all sorts of organizational forms and structures. Here I think everyone has to tear himself a little bit loose from their preconceived attitudes and preconceived patterns, and think about how we're going to create a whole new learning venue for a whole new group of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e362	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e374	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e381	It is in itself positive and desirable that the Nordics, on their own initiative, stay abroad for a shorter or longer period of time. Knowledge of foreign affairs contributes to enriching the Norwegian community and is a prerequisite for taking advantage of the benefits that an increasingly open world can bring. I would therefore like to express my recognition to the author of the proposal because he has raised a question that has obviously deserved a closer investigation, as the very comprehensive response from the Government shows has been taken seriously. The questions have been submitted to five different departments: to the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Ministry of Finance, of course to the Ministry of Justice itself. What the Ministry of Justice concludes with is that the laws demanded have been taken into account, in all respects, and that the Ministry will follow further developments. Furthermore, the department says that there is such a difference, for example: on tax issues, criminal law issues, pension and education issues that it would not be appropriate to address it in a separate investigation. This is the agreement of the large majority of the Committee. It should have been a unanimous committee, because it is impossible for me to see that the committee's comment from the Progress Party contains something new in relation to the proposal and the answers given by the Government. Just as a little curiosity, I would also like to mention that the majority of the Committee believes that the term ‘Norwegian settlements in other countries’ in Document No. The 8 proposal is somewhat unfortunate, because it may give the impression that there would be a desirable or possible practice of Norwegian authority in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e394	I refer to the proposal on page 2 of the setting, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a public investigation and then submit proposals for a fully-fledged policy on Norwegian settlements in other countries and the challenges that this poses for the Norwegian society and its laws, regulations and arrangements.’ I have registered that the Department believes that there is satisfactory legislation in most areas and that these rules and regulations are constantly under assessment. However, there will be an advantage to a comprehensive review and a comprehensive overview of legislation in different areas, such as schools, treatment institutions, elderly services, taxes and public register rules. The fact that such a review and overall overview will be of great help to the Nordics living abroad shows the letter received by the Committee from the Norwegian club in Costa Blanca. There is evidence that the proposal by the representative Carl I. Hagen has been sent around to 1,100 members, and that there have been many positive feedback. The head of the club expressed great satisfaction in the letter with the initiative taken. With this I address the proposal on page 2 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e406	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1249]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e421	We would then be ready to vote on the matter on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e428	During the debate, 33 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 6-20, by Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 2 and 21-28, from Inge Wohnung on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3 and 29-33, by Mr Requam, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 5, by Inge Wohnung on behalf of the Right and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 34, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Socialist Left Party The President noted that proposal No. 4 has not been included, as an identical proposal was dealt with last week. The President shall make explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e451	On behalf of the members of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left in the Church, Education and Research Committee, I would recommend that our parties vote in favour of the vote and against all minority proposals. And in the case of proposal No. 34, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e456	When it comes to the configuration of the committee, I would ask the Labour Party to vote in favour of it. However, in the case of Framework Independent Decision No B, I ask that the Workers' Party vote against Romartala II and III. In the case of proposal No: 34, from the Progress Party, Right and SV, I ask that it be converted into a transmission proposal, based on the fact that the Stortinget has agreed on two new basic courses. The Stortinget has asked the Government to reduce the number of further courses, and when one starts at that job, the Stortinget will tell you exactly how it should proceed. We do not think that is timely, but if it is not turned into a transmission proposal, I ask that the Labour Party vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e463	I would recommend that the members of the Progress Party vote in favour of our proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I would also ask that they vote in favour of proposal No. 5, by the Right and Socialist Left, for our own framework-independent proposals, of course, and for the proposals promoted by the Right, with the exception of the proposals No. 21 and 24 and that they vote against the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e468	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, and we are going to vote. It is first voted on framework-independent minority proposals. We start with the proposals No. 29-33, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the county councils concerned, is asked to propose a scheme in which the school acquires national status. State economic participation, if any, is included in the revised national budget for 2001.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in relation to the county councils in order to develop a system of binding agreements by establishing nationwide lines. The scheme must take into account that it is also a public responsibility to establish cross-border offers.’» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2001 to present a statement on the priorities and allocation of funds.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that no payment arrangements are established for loans from government library institutions to other libraries. Where such arrangements are in place, they shall be wound up.’;» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case for student loan repayment based on income.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e505	The proposals are then put to the vote. 21 and 24, from the right. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of grades in written subjects from grade 5 in primary school.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for adjusting the hourly rate for music and cultural schools in the Revised National Budget 2001’.» Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e528	The proposals are then put to the vote. 22, 23, 25, 26, 27 and 28, from the right. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the Training Act so as to make it free of choice both in primary and secondary schools, while maintaining the right to attend secondary schools.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: "The government asks the government to propose a modified funding model for the operation of primary and secondary schools, so that a greater part of the money follows the student according to the price principle. Public and private education services are treated in the same way in respect of operating grants.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for the reorganization of primary education in order to provide students with a progressive increase in freedom of choice and a greater chance of professional immersion.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the regulations of the Training Act so that the electoral profession can count on the calculation of the competitive score for admission to higher education.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change in the requirements for the competence of primary school teachers so that teachers who teach theoretical knowledge should have at least one year of professional immersion in the subject.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the possibility of receiving grants for educational equipment for schools approved under Section 26 of the Private School Act, Rules 1, 2 and 4.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e570	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6-20, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the necessary measures are taken in primary schools to prevent undesirable behaviour causing problems and discomfort to other students. Such measures may consist, inter alia, of criminal offences, detention and expulsion for shorter or longer periods of time in the event of constant incidents of crime, vandalism, violence, etc. based on the Training Act.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for concrete measures to be taken by the Government in the field of class management and adulthood to ensure that users on a national basis have a common basis for their perception and behaviour in respect of life, health and property, behaviour and respect for teachers and fellow students.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of professional qualifications in all subjects at school from 5th grade onwards.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a modified funding model in primary school, so that the money follows the student – a piece price, and that all public primary schools are converted into responsible economic units with their own directors. Private primary and home school services with professional secrecy shall be treated in the same way as public schools.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government asks the Government to propose a modified funding model for secondary schools, so that the money follows the student – a single price. Public secondary schools become responsible economic holdings with their own boards. Private secondary schools shall be treated as public when it comes to financial matters.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that the responsibility of the school owner is effectively exercised in all areas.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a model in which Norwegian universities and colleges are transformed into independent legal entities.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a funding model for higher education, based on the price principle that funding follows the student. Basic research funds shall be financed directly to the institution, irrespective of the number of students.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the House Bank’s rules on loans for the construction of student and student housing, so that projects in areas under land pressure and high land prices are not stopped due to the Bank’s loan rules.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to grant educational institutions a general derogation from public legislation on employment, working hours, etc.’. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to prescribe that parents be included in the school-based assessment.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of an independent body of complaint for the education sector, with its mandate, organisation and management function.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present the necessary changes to the law on training so that music and cultural education are organised according to the needs of the school and its users and not according to the wishes of cultural life.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote a recruitment message for the Stortinget during the current ageing period with the aim of recruiting, stabilising and maintaining the necessary nursing skills in our public hospitals. It is assumed that the recruitment message will be drawn up in cooperation with the employee organisations and that possible productivity and efficiency gains will be clarified.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to apply equal treatment to public and private training institutions in the award of scholarships and post-doctoral positions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e660	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government of the Revised National Budget to state whether a contribution is made to a different division of labour between the centres and the municipal service than provided for in the Innst. S. No 228 [[1997-1998]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e674	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 34, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Left Party of Socialists. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the maintenance of the ICT business as a VKI course with broad recruitment from the basic course.’ Here the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Centre have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e690	It shall now be contested over the framework area 17 and the corresponding minority proposals. We start with proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e5134	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e9603	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e18581	The proposal for a framework-independent decision remains to be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e18613	The Labour Party has announced here that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e18632	The President has registered that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e18644	Then we finished voting on case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e18651	During the debate, Mr Evje presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2000 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones243Competence centres for special education1Operating costs, can be used under items 21 and 60, is reduced by 993 00021Special operating costs, can be transferred, increased by 105 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e20761	It's voted first over the cape. 243 under I. The party of progress has announced that these will vote against. It is then added to the other chapters under I and above II.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e20794	During the debate, Odd Einar Dørum has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:89 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e20816	During the debate, Mr Reikvam put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks during the spring of 2001 to promote legislative proposals to provide adult students with the right to secondary education and to receive training on offer for adults with the right to free school kissing in line with adult students in ordinary classes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e20835	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e20842	During the debate, Mr Simonsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a public investigation and then submit proposals for a fully-fledged policy on Norwegian settlements in other countries and the challenges that this poses for the Norwegian society and its laws, regulations and arrangements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12-2.ana.ud1438e20866	There is no record.
