ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e46	Honourable co-representatives! Former deposit representative Hans E. Strand passed away, 65 years old. He was born on August 20, 1934 in Modum. After graduating artium in 1953 he obtained a thorough forest education, first State Forest School at Kongsberg. Then he graduated as a lead student at the University of Agriculture at Ås and became a Master of Forestry at the University of California. After a period of research at the University of Agriculture, he became master of the forest in 1970 — later head of forestry — in Modum. Next door he was a farmer and a forester on the West Spone. Hans E. Strand was always alive occupied by the home municipality's woe and well. It was therefore quite natural for him to engage strongly in local politics. In the years 1975-79 he was a member of the local government and chairmanship of Modum. For many years he was the group leader in the municipality. Typically, he got involved again in local politics after he ended up in Stortinget. As late as the fall of 1999, he was elected to the local government for a new period, but because of illness he was not as active as he would have wished. Hans E. Strand was elected to Stortinget for the first time in 1977, as representative of the Right from the Buskerud County. In the first period he was a member of the Social Committee. He had not previously worked on social and health policies, but it soon turned out that he mastered this extensive field of action in an excellent way. After the election in 1981, Hans E. Strand moved over to the Church and Education Committee, where he was also Vice-Chairman of the Right and a sort of unofficial leader of the bourgeois fractions in the Committee. He was also the Vice-Chairman of the Control Committee and a permanent member of the Council of Europe. In addition to the many political positions at local and national level, Hans E. Strand had a wide range of other tasks of great social value. In this context, it is natural to mention the executives of the National Forests Board and of the Riksteatret Board. Hans E. Strand was also through a number of years a member of the Billing Replacement Committee. He was a member of the Academy's Joint Organisation from 1970 to 74. Hans E. Strand was not a ‘playout politician’. He was never concerned with the big headlines or by scoring cheap political points. He was far more concerned with achieving good results and was a prominent cooperation politician and a good team player. He was always lowly and objective and never had to use big words to win out in a debate. Hans E. Strand has a good aftermath among all those who across the party boundaries were delighted to cooperate with him in Stortinget. We remember Hans E. Stand by for his work on the Storting. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e65	The called alternate of the Telemark County, Gunn Marit Helgesen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e80	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e87	Today, we are addressing the central government's communication on protection and use in the coastal zone. It is gratifying that there is a broad majority behind the headlines in the message. The background to this communication was a decision in Stortinget following an inter-pelling debate on coastal defence plans for Northern Ireland. The guidance given in this Communication and in the treatment of it by the Storting will be an important basis for further consideration of the proposals for coastal protection plans for the North and Troms. These guidelines will also be important for future protection plans covering coastal zone sea areas. The coastal zone is poorly represented in terms of protection compared to the hinterland. At the same time, resources in the coastal zone are important in the context of nutrition, housing, recreation and other uses. Therefore, the protection work in this area is also very important. An important objective and driving force for protection work is the need to ensure biodiversity — or diversity of species. An overall committee is concerned that this should be ensured in line with national and international recommendations and obligations. In the past, Stortinget has said that overall biodiversity is best ensured through the combination of protection and sustainable use. Another important prerequisite is good dialogue between the authorities and those engaged in industrial activities in the areas concerned. The Committee has taken the view that biodiversity should be ensured through protection while ensuring the area for harvesting natural resources and food production at sea. Such balanced management imposes new requirements on both governments and local populations. This is in many ways a new way of operationalising protective provisions. That is why it places great demands on cooperation and, not least, on the accountability of those who are going to put the plans into practice and those who are going to help them to live up to them. The potential for conflict between protection interests and user interests is high in terms of protection in the coastal zone. Therefore, the notification has been submitted for the purpose of safeguarding both protection and user interests. This is a demanding balancing process and requires good cooperation between user and protection interests. The activities to be authorised in the protection areas concerned must be assessed on the basis of the purpose of the protection. If an activity would destroy or impair the values that the safeguard decision is intended to preserve, the activity shall not be permitted within the area concerned. It is very important not to undermine the intention and provisions of the nature protection law in this way. We know that biodiversity in coastal zones is under pressure from many actors. These include food production, the harvesting of natural resources, physical intervention on the seabed, the expansion and intervention of the coastal zone and pollution. The most appropriate instrument for managing resources and diversity depends on the types of resources and interests involved. An overall committee has adhered to the main principles of the notification. Among other things, the scope of protection shall be adapted to the protection values. The whole area shall comply with the protection category of nature protection law concerned. At the same time, the precautionary principle shall be a central guideline, as the majority of the Committee endorses. In the light of this principle, it should also not be possible to allow user interests to be at the expense of the need to safeguard their protection values. A majority of the Committee, all except the Party of Advancement and the Right, has found it necessary to clarify the importance that the law of nature protection is not eroded by such liberal safeguards that nature protected by the Law of Nature is effectively managed as all other areas in relation to different industries. Restrictions on the use of parts of the coastal zone through protection will also have positive economic consequences. I think it's worth pointing out. It will ensure the protection of fish breeding and breeding areas and improved market value for environmentally friendly products and seafood. In the long term, all societal interests will benefit from an environmentally friendly and sustainable use of the coastal zone. A unanimous committee underlines the importance of local involvement in the planning process. Local involvement is essential for a good process. Municipalities, landowners, interest and business organisations hold together knowledge that will be central to the design of the protection plan. In the debate following the Committee's release, it has been found that the tar industry considers itself to be over-reached and overheard. It must be emphasised that participation in the design and implementation of protection plans shall apply to all commercial interests, including those in the course of their continuation. Local involvement is also central to ensuring the legitimacy of the protection plan. Such participation, after the adoption of the safeguard decision, will ensure local integration and contribute to the anchoring of environmental protection policies in the local population. This presupposes that those delegated more administrative responsibilities ensure that the relevant Governing Boards and interest groups are involved in the work. The size shall not deal with individual cases or manage the follow-up to safeguard decisions. It's the administration's job to do that. This must also be justified where the majority of the comments have referred to the breeding company SalMar A/S, which operates on a derogation from the protection provisions of the Landscape Protection Area of Fron. When the majority believes that this is one of the areas that can in the future be opened up to aquaculture activities under the new guidelines, this is not an attempt to intervene in any individual matter, and I think it is worth stressing. It will be entirely up to the administration to take the final decision on this issue. However, the majority consider it important to examine the long-term impact on nature and the environment of such activities in protected areas. It is therefore appropriate to launch a scientific project in Froan related to the breeding activity. However, let me stress that here too, it is the relevant and relevant administrative body that is to decide whether to grant further exemptions in accordance with the guidelines set out in this Communication. With the treatment that Stortinget is doing today in the communication on protection and use in the coastal zone, it is my and the Christian People's Party's hope that in this way we can ensure a more environmentally friendly, sustainable future for important areas of protection in the coastal zone, and that in this way we can also ensure that the local population ends up with the important protection decisions that are now being taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e133	The Norwegian coastal zone represents a unique nature type. Our long coastline, which extends over several latitudes, is in a global context very special. The transition between land and the marine environment contains natural values that have provided the basis for a unique international biodiversity. In order to ensure this diversity and its values for the future, it will be vital that we make efforts to facilitate both ecologically sustainable use and conservation to a degree that ensures a representative selection of coastal nature. Through the protective planning process, we have now come a long way in protecting some of our unique coastal nature. The development of coastal defence plans is based on St.meld. No 68 for 1980-81. The implementation of the territorial protection plans for bogs, forests, wetlands and seabirds is in the process of being completed. Of a total of 70 protective plans, only a few remain. Two of these are the coastal defence plans for Nordland and Troms. The communication we are discussing today should be an important basis for further protection plans in these two countries. But in addition, it also provides leadership for coastal zone protection plans in other parts of the country. This big message was drawn up in the light of an interview with the representative of Björn Olsen on the coastal protection plan, which was debated in Stortinget on 5 March 1998. The background for the interpellation was, among other things, dissatisfied with the way in which the planning process itself was carried out in Northern Ireland. I believe it has to be acknowledged that the dialogue between the environmental management and the industrial interests concerned and the population has not been good enough. In Troms, the level of conflict has been much lower and probably due to close cooperation between the environmental protection authorities and the fisheries authorities early in the process. The experience of this protection plan work includes, inter alia: as a result, a stronger local participation in coastal defence is proposed in this message. The Workers' Party supports local participation both in the protection plan itself and in the management of protected areas. We want active local participation, both because it is often the locals who know the area best and because environmental protection should not be a conflict between the central authorities and the local population. The combination of business and protection is not easy. We are concerned that it should be possible to operate protection through use. But it's tricking us seas if we think this is completely conflictless. Interventions by individuals as well as businesses and public authorities that do not comply with the objective of sustainable development are present through use. Therefore, it is necessary to leave some coastal areas untouched by commercial activities and other activities, so that we in time know what nature and ecology were originally like. Marine industries have a great future in Norway. More coastal communities are currently totally dependent on farming, and there is little doubt that dependence will increase over the years to come. During the last ten years, Norwegian farming has rid itself of many of its childhood diseases, with high levels of medicine and a high level of fish disease. The industry today appears to be far more sustainable and environmentally friendly. Nevertheless, there may be cases where the establishment of a protective plan may conflict with the industry. For Northern Ireland, coastal protection plans are proposed, which in 17 of the 64 areas are well suited for salmon and aure farming. A unanimous committee supports the Government's proposal to amend the protection provisions in order to allow farming activities to be carried out in landscape protection areas. It can dampen the conflict a lot. However, the majority believe that protection areas with the status of national parks and reserves should not be opened up for breeding activities. If this were to happen, the whole foundation for protecting falls would fall away. Setting the environment up against industry as a one-sided conflict, I think it is completely wrong. I believe that a sensible environmental policy with sustainable management in very many cases is also a sensible business policy. That must be the basis for everything we do. Through the processing of this message, we have become known that today there are very different practices for accessing tare radiation in bird reserves. In Rogaland it is largely allowed, while in Sogn and Fjordane it is much more stringent. A technical group has now been set up with representatives from the tar industries, the fisheries organisations and the environmental and fisheries governance powers. This group shall assess the areas to be covered by tare radiation and shall provide a long-term management plan for the tare resources. I am very confident that this group will reach a common conclusion that resolves the conflicts that have arisen at the Western harvest. Until now, no marine protected areas have been established in this country, but the need exists. The over-taxation of our fishing resources and the destruction of our valuable coral reefs are arguments enough to demonstrate the need. The government proposes that a selection be set up to prepare this protection process. This is work that should start quickly, so that no more and more of our unique natural values in the marine areas are lost. The fishing team has also been concerned that this work is under way. They know how important bottom living organisms and coral reefs are to life in the ocean. In part of the protection areas currently proposed, strict restrictions are imposed on the general movement. The Workers' Party believes that a driving ban is a very strong interference in the rights of all persons. We are afraid that both in practice and symbolically it can have a foreign effect. We understand that in nesting times some bird colonies are very vulnerable, and therefore they need extra protection. We must respect this. However, we are far more sceptical about the use of driving bans as an instrument to prevent environmental crime. In fact, outdoor life promotes positive attitudes towards nature and environmental protection. These include: In this way people get an understanding of how important it is to protect. We therefore believe that other instruments should be used to prevent environmental crime. The majority of the Committee is therefore in favour of extending State nature monitoring activities to include environmental monitoring in coastal areas, thus combating animal crime. One of the areas likely to be opened up in the future for aquaculture activities under the new guidelines is the Landscaping Area of Froan, the municipality of Frøya. In 1998, the breeding company SalMar AS received a derogation from the protection regulations to operate breeding activities in the landscape protection area. This derogation expires on 1 July of this year. The environmental authorities do not have powers to extend the current derogation following current protective measures. This implies the closure of breeding activities in a coastal area where there is a high rate of depopulation and where the only means of ensuring the settlement of this small island community is through the aquaculture industry. In the transition between two administrative regimes, we find that the population of South Bury ports between two chairs. With today’s regime, it is not possible to continue the breeding activity, but with the regime recommended by the Stortinget in the Committee’s position here today, such activity will be possible. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has therefore made considerable efforts to find a solution that is legally and practically sustainable. We propose the launch of a scientific project to look at the long-term impact on nature and the environment of such activities in protected areas. Regardless of the special situation that has arisen in Froan, we believe there is a need for such a project. The two current farming sites that have been used in the last two years, we believe that they are very suitable for such a type of project. Since the Committee gave its opinion, the matter in Froan has taken a serious turn. The company SalMar AS has smolted in five yards in a new location just east of the island of Rish Island in Froan. Some permissions have not been granted. It's a new location and not one of those that has previously received a derogation. This is a violation of the Nature Conservation Act, the Breeding Act, the Fish Disease Act and the Pollution Act. I strongly react to the fact that SalMar is taking care of himself in this way. The company is fully aware that it has never been possible to open up research activity in a new location. The Energy and Environment Committee has gone very far in finding a solution for this small island community in Froan, including SalMar AS. What has happened after the committee's release, I see as a clear breach of trust, and I take a complete distance from SalMar's actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e173	The marine industry has significant development and market potential, and the industry has a significant impact on the Norwegian economy and district development. More coastal communities are currently totally dependent on the farming industry, and dependence is likely to increase only in the coming years. The objective of a future industrial policy for aquaculture is that the authorities will facilitate an offensive continuation of the efficient use of our marine resources and our natural conditions to realise the high market potential of aquaculture products. In a few years, the Norwegian farming industry has grown to become a modern, sustainable industry, where the value of exports in 1999 was over DKK 12 billion. Further positive development of the industry will include, inter alia: depend on the availability of appropriate sea volumes and areas. In this context, let me refer to a study carried out by the BI School of Economics, published in Stavanger Aftenblad on 11 May this year, where an analysis shows the possibility of value creation in Norway's four main industries. Farms were ranked as winners. The last such analysis was in 1992. At that time, 20 Norwegian industries were assessed. At the time, farming came to the jumbo place and was predicted a rather uncertain future. So today this industry is a winner, and it tells us about the importance the industry has had and should and must have in the future. We in the Progress Party want to facilitate the conditions for the farming industry, so that the countries against which we compete and which today have a much faster growth than what we have, do not get the benefit of protecting ourselves from the opportunities that farming offers along our long-range coast. The farming industry is based on the tradition of generations to live off, harvest and use the sea. The industry is thus an extension of the culture and economic pathway that has characterized the coast over and over time. The breeding industry creates district work places in Coast Norway by producing and further processing products there. The growth and development of the industry has helped to create optimism and is central to maintaining and creating jobs and thus maintaining housing in the districts. For many communities along our coast, the farming industry itself is the symbol of the future and the possibility of viable districts. In this connection, I have to express my scepticism to those government plans with which to strengthen the wild stocks in many watercourses. With extensive protection, the consequences will be dramatic for large parts of the farming industry. I am not going to pre-empt the debate on wild-axis, but with extensive protection, it is clear that many farms need to move, and we are preventing the re-establishment and therefore also the creation of valuable and viable communities and communities. Breeding in liquid mercenary is a completely reversible intervention. If the establishment is not compatible with the protection values in the area, the facility may be moved quickly and all tracks will be lost in a short time by experience. Traditional area protection of the sea is often pointless, as there are large ecosystems with extremely mobile organisms we are dealing with. Today's farm is something quite different from what happened a few years ago. It is not very close to the pollution from this type of industrial activity in the past. The marine industry is constantly changing and improving in terms of the environment. New technologies with automatic feeding plants have resulted in avoiding waste of feed and thus contamination. Medication of the fish is almost gone and testing and testing of fish is carried out in the farms. Similarly, the industry has done a great deal to prevent escape from farms. In other words, many of the pollution problems that existed in the past are now a mere fairy tale. Fish farming is an international industry of major national importance. Changes in access to production areas due to protection will therefore have implications not only locally but also for national and international export production opportunities. Protected areas will have regional consequences and therefore need to be balanced against other societal interests. For the farming industry, access to land and economic development are two aspects of the same issue. The more relevant farming areas devoted to protection, the fewer options are given to future farms. The expansion and further development of the industry are therefore left to other nations, and we should avoid that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e196	I am glad that this matter has now come so far that it has been dealt with in Stortinget. The background is, as the representative Gjul had in mind, a proposal based on an interpellation by the representative Björn Olsen, following the history of the local treatment of the Northland Coast Guard Plan. And it's quite correct, as it was pointed out, that the procedure that that plan was given locally illustrated the many conflicts that were between environmental management, coastal people and industrial interests. I think it's worth the Norwegian big thing to have that experience with you, from that part of the country and the area that has the longest and largest coast, and where the business interests are the greatest, that any further steps that have to do with permanent protection must have a anchor in a elected body. And it wasn't going to live with the situation you had locally, that these conflicts were allowed to develop. That's why it's very good that this case has been dealt with in the Storting, and I assume that with its contents, and the decisions taken today, it will have quite a big impact on the further follow-up of the future coastal defence plans for coastal states in the country. It is also specified in the configuration of the Committee. The coastal population has lived in the pact with nature for all years and for all generations. It is they who have managed nature and taken care of nature. And the concept that use and protection has gone hand in hand. And I don't think anyone more than the coastal people are interested, even for the future, in the need to have the environmental perspective in place. Nothing will be better than further development of the coast by setting standards of environmental protection and use to achieve sustainable development. We've seen that it's within the conventional fisheries we see the greatest threats to local species that exist in fjord arms along the coast. Unfortunately, this part of the problem has not been given any special space in this message. It's true that others have been involved, that the farming industry, which this case is about, has been a pattern of how an industry evolves in the environmental pact. The industry itself has set the standard for development in line with environmental standards, which means that the reversible interventions it has no longer have the same grid and are the same threat to the environment along the coast as a few years ago. The challenge for the counties and municipalities in the future, when we also see this as a business policy issue, is to make sure that we have a progressive planning that will make there sufficient areas for the future. Remember, we are also talking about this industry developing from today where it has an annual turnover and export value – when we talk about farming – of 12 billion kroner. Then, in other plans in the Norwegian economy, we've set an ambition that we'll reach a level of maybe NOK 100 billion in a few years. And that means you have to come up with solutions and a long-term framework for the industry that says you have to know what kind of areas we're talking about, and what kind of areas are going to have the protection stamp on for the future. Let me also say that in this debate, when one chooses to bring forward a single matter, Fron and the company SalMar, I don't think this is the right arena to attack a named company that has no particular opportunity to defend itself from here. But the example shows how contentious this can be, where one goes into a problem that makes those who choose to bet and will evolve in and around this industry, have to have a long-term outlook that must be much larger and better than what has been possible to achieve so far. But I am glad that the matter has been given the direction it has been given, and it seems that the committee setting is very positive. I believe what happens is that we have now received treatment in the Storting, increasing the possibility of strengthening coastal settlements and also helping to set an environmental standard that will enable the industry to develop, and that, in the future, we can have the opportunity to reach, among other things. for the farming industry, a turnover of DKK 100 billion. It could have a positive view of the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e213	In view of the fact that the main thoughts of the Storting Message on the protection and use of coastal zones are accepted by a large majority on the Stortinget, I would like to make a brief comment here. What is particularly important in this matter is that environmental and business interests entered into an extensive dialogue to find a common platform. The former Minister of State for the Environment Guro Fjellanger and Minister of Fisheries Peter Angelsen made a wholehearted effort to coordinate their interests, and they did. Thus, the expression got protection and use a visible content, and it will be possible to use it as an overarching guide in Norwegian environmental and resource policies. For the centre party, the idea of use and protection has always been central. Compared to other countries, Norway has a unique construction structure. On an international scale, we've got a few large connected wilderness areas across us, because here in Norway, there are traces of people everywhere. Historically, we've been nourishing ourselves with natural resources, and we've developed a sense of being part of nature. Nature and wilderness are not areas that we live outside, but that we are part of on a line with everything else that lives and grows. This situation should be reversed in order to contribute to a continuing shortage both in Europe and globally. The concept of use and protection is an expression of exactly this. It has perspective over it. For example, it is encouraging that the large aquaculture industry, representing major commercial interests, accepts the idea of balanced use of coastal resources. I interpret it as an expression of an informed self-interest. It's a good thing that classic conservationists realize that there's no future in excluding people from nature, from the wild we're a natural part of, and we're still living in. This view is the basis for St.meld. No 43. So there might be reason to stress what the committee says about movement. The fact that people can travel along the coast in forests, land and mountains without encountering unnecessary restrictions, promotes positive attitudes towards nature and environmental protection. It is the symbiosis of man and nature that is important. This is e.g. the starting point for the ecophilosopher Sigmund Kvaøy Setreng. His point of view should, in my view, be listened to. Of the environmental organisations, nature and youth are the best way to follow this perspective. The question of how we should behave in nature then becomes absolutely central, and that is what the coastal zone plan is all about. Both ideologically and practically, a good platform has now been set up. The former government did a good job here, which the government has not rocked – fortunately. We are pleased with the follow-up that is now coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e230	In this case, the majority of the majority may, by way of a comment in the setting, probably be set aside up up to four laws – the law on nature protection, farming laws, fish diseases laws and pollution laws, the laws adopted by the legislative assembly – and this in favour of a company that has now been notified to the police by the World Natural Fund. The majority of the population choose to pay a company that probably breaks the existing law by creating a fine-tuning structure in the form of a research project. So by hiding behind this, the majority can break their own law and instruct and order the counties and directorates to join the same thing, that is, ignore the existing law – despite the fact that a number in the committee in the setting warn against just this: ‘... it is important that the law on nature protection is not eroded by such liberal protective regulations that nature protected by the law on nature protection is effectively managed as all other areas in relation to different industries.’ In the next round, the Workers' Party and the Centre do in practice what they themselves warn against, but then together with their environmental associates in the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. Yes, the Christian People's Party is in that plural, and it's not just scratches in the paint they get. It's a collision with the environmental party that they want to appear to be. This doesn't have a target, and there needs to be a reason to ask, what's next? Can it be expected that future practices will include farming facilities belonging to the original nature and will be located in a protected area? The majority in this room have a big explanation problem. The conclusion for others who do not like adopted laws must then be: It pays to ignore the law. Do as you like, the Storting will trix it except for previously adopted laws, as you would like. We must bear in mind that the laws of nature, as protected in Fron, have been adopted by the Stortinge after careful discussions. The Ministry of the Environment has been given responsibility and authority to administer this legislation and has passed it on to the Directorate, which then, after careful assessment, has found that the plant has to be moved. So the plurality of this will be to direct the details of those who have done the job by law and regulation and to tell them that they have to look away from this law. It's amazing, what's happening now. With the exception of this special form of big business, the Committee agrees on most points. Of course, SV would like to point out that this message strengthens people's access to protected areas when the purpose is not affected. It is an important step forward for us who are concerned with ensuring protection as well as people's access to reasonably pristine nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e246	The communication on protection and use in the coastal zone was presented by the previous government in the context of a debate in the United Kingdom on the coastal protection plans for the North. It is true, as the representative John Dale said, that much work was done to reconcile aspects of protection and use with those of the previous government, especially the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Fisheries. It is gratifying that the current government has chosen to support the notification and that there is a broad majority to ensure the biological basis in line with national and international obligations when dealing with marine protection plans. It is also widely agreed that land should be secured for the harvesting of natural resources and for the production of food at sea. The aim is that the principles underlying the notification should be anti-conflict where conflicts between protection and use arise. Protection is an important contribution to ensuring biodiversity, and the protection of marine areas is a natural and necessary part of this work. When creating protection areas, both on land and sea, the protection area shall not be larger and the restrictions shall not be more stringent than is necessary to ensure the protection values. However, for this to be achieved, the knowledge base needs to be significantly improved through monitoring, monitoring and research. This shall then provide a basis for the evaluation of the protection areas and the suitability of the protection to ensure the protection values. Evaluation should also show the impact of protection in relation to community and nutrition. Until we have the necessary knowledge, we must apply the precautionary principle also to this part of our environmental policy. The left considers it important that the law on nature protection is not eroded by so liberal safeguards that nature protected by this law is effectively managed as all other areas. As regards the activities to be permitted within nature reserves, this must be assessed on the basis of how each activity may affect the purpose of the protection in each case. Although nature protection does not initially need to be argued for economic reasons, the Left would stress that the conservation and sustainable use of our marine and coastal resources could lead to significant positive economic consequences in the long term. I am thinking here of the protection of breeding and breeding areas, environmentally friendly fishery and marine products and the extraction of substances based on genetic codes in marine biodiversity. It is important that protection areas are locally anchored. This can best be achieved through local management and through the early inclusion of all parties in the protection work. There has been a broad consensus on the main lines of this case. On one point, however, the comment of the majority of the committee has raised awareness – I want to say justifiable observation. This concerns the situation of a farm in Froan, which has already been discussed by several speakers. SV and Left do not join this note. In the view of the Left, it should not be the task of the Storting to address individual issues such as this, but to draw up the general guidelines. I do not think that the comment that has been made by the majority will be improved by the representations made by, among other things. Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party today. What is the result of this comment is a local debate and a development that I find regrettable. I think that the experience one should draw from this is that in such individual cases it is different from the Storting that makes the premise and adds up to what becomes the executive policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e263	The background of this message and the setting are, as several speakers have said, the conflicts that occurred, among others. in Nordland. The setting tries to draw up certain driving rules that are to be applied when considering the economic consequences and how they affect coastal protection plans. The title clearly states from: protection and use. I think we should take that with us. It says a lot. We have to protect, but we also have to use. Here I think we have to take with us the historical background. It is so that this nation has been largely built up and organized on the basis of what the sea and sea have given us, and that we have been able to bring in. To achieve this interaction, to exploit the rich resources we have and to combine them with protection interests, protection and nutrition must play more together. We now see how much the two most important industries we have in Norway, namely the fishing industry and the oil and gas industries, are bringing into our country, and we also need to realise that we need proper organisation here. Saying more human: we have to be able to solve these major challenges together. As we see in the Workers' Party, there are sufficient areas to develop a proper nutrition and to have areas to be protected, both at sea and on land. The keyword here is a sustainable future for these interests. I would like to stress strongly that it is possible to combine the protection of marine areas and the use of the same area for marine activities, such as farming and seaweed, to a greater extent than in previous protection decisions. Again: protection through use. When a new protection area is established, account shall be taken of existing commercial activities and residence. Here I underline this with the active local participation in the planning and creation of these areas. It is necessary to look closely at the existing business and housing activities in the area and then to facilitate them. The obligation to investigate shall lie with the economic operator. They themselves must ensure that action will not pose a threat to the area of protection. I have great expectations of the department's establishment, which is largely composed of both environmental, fisheries and business organisations and associations, which are now to assess the areas of interest, among other things. for tar irradiation. I take it as granted that no one in this group acts with a veto right. There shall be a consultation where one shall arrive at a common understanding and consensus, and it is natural that one here places great emphasis on what these initial industries have done and will do in the future in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e277	I wish I had had at least 15 minutes, but unfortunately I have to limit myself to what I have been allocated. Today we have a day of destiny for the coastal people and for District Norway. I say it so strongly, because if this setting is adopted without any of the proposals I have made, at the same time being adopted, we do the masterpiece that we confirm and reinforce the powers that have already been given from the Storting to the Ministry of the Environment and the environmental bureaucrats that sit around the counties and that are really the ones that run the race. The ml's and 68's that disappeared when communism fell into ruins are well placed. They are the ones who are sitting on all this shackle that the district and coastal people must live with. - I'm sorry for my unparliamentary language, President! There's talk of protection, and there's talk of loss of species diversity. I have to spend a few seconds telling a little story. I was out on the weekend in the Shipboat Squad, where my grandfather came from – out in nature. As I grew up, my grandfather lay by the berth and devoured fish and raised reins out, and ea could eat from my hand. Today it's moved out. Today the otter is at peace, today the eagle is at peace, today the harness is largely at peace. There's no more nesting birds. No, the eagle has eaten up the ere bird, the otter has eaten up the ere bird. I have pictures of the reptile in the guise of the oter, pictures taken by journalists. That's how it works when you peace and protect nature without the human beings participating in it. The worst thing that happens on the coast is peace. Then the diversity of species disappears. The diversity of species is taken care of when the coastal population is allowed to participate, but when peace is achieved without the participation of the coastal population, it goes wrong. I initially pointed to the Law on Nature Conservation in relation to the sea – what kind of legal basis is there that gives the right to the protection of the sea? Well, there's a letter from a bureaucrat in the Ministry of Justice's law department – probably a nature protector – saying that there's reason to assume that the Environmental Protection Act also applies to the sea. That is the legal basis on which the Committee has been based. By adopting what is in the setting, we say that the law of nature protection applies at sea, it is no longer assumed. That is why I have tabled proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 3 goes on to note that when the environmental bureaucrats in a state find out that there is an area to be protected, they sit and draw; they take a thousand and call it in. I have sent it to the committee and to a number of representatives to show how the protection area of Northern Ireland – I have pointed out Northland, as it started in 1994 – looks today with the thousands border around. And then that area is actually peaceful long before a decision is made on it. It's serious. It may be up to 6 to 10 years before the decision is taken, but the area is already bound by the County Environmental Protection Agency, without control, without any impact on the size of the site. In reality, they have received authority from the ministry, they can do exactly what they want. This is the reality of the day. Then it is pointed out that the WWF has delivered a review regarding Fron. What has the WWF done for nature in Norway? What has the WWF done for Norway internationally? Yes, they are participating in campaigns against Norway to scandalise Norway as much as possible when Norway is out there and to defend its interests in harvesting nature. I think it's sympathetic to experience that it's being dragged forward here in this room. Of course, protection through use is the only way – I agree with Nordtun in – you can take care of your interests. Gunn Karin Gjul spoke of local involvement. Yeah, how do you get local involvement? The protection plan for Nordland is currently under assessment at the directorate level. There is nothing to say that the protective plan should be rewritten and re-consulted. That is why proposal No. 1 – and that’s important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e298	The President assumes that Bastesen has made the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e301	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e306	Furthermore, the President would point out that the terms used by the Bastisen are not parliamentary terms – and that does not help any regret afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e309	It's always interesting and polite to listen to an engaged speaker like Steinar Bastesen. For thousands of years, the population along the Norwegian coast has been guarding its neighbourhoods through use. In Northern and Troms, fishermen and others who have had their daily activity along the coast have protected this part of the country through the use of land and sea. Anyone who has the pleasure of traveling by boat along the coast, either out to the great sea or inside the fjords, sees old settlement. Is there a green spot to see somewhere, you also see that there's been old settlement there. That is, in earlier times, there was operation largely everywhere – from the extreme weather to the innermost fjord. And the strange thing is that none of these areas are destroyed by the use of the coastal people. It is worth noting that this has happened for thousands of years without these areas being affected by state protection plans and environmental protection departments of the county. It is this type of use of the coast that has been the basis for settlement and development in Coast Norway for all years, but unfortunately this is changing. It has been established on several occasions that fishing, and in particular farming, must take over when the oil ends one day. Furthermore, it is with great optimism stated that fishing and farming should be what without subsidies should ensure the settlement and development of Coast Norway. However, it has to be allowed to ask how this can be done, when the majority of the population are going to be at peace largely on the coast of Northern Norway – so that tourists from different countries and parts of the country can come and look at this dying breed called the North. In Saltenfjorden, which extends from Bodø and past Fauske to Saltdalen, there are two farms. Both of these plants are at risk of being moved or laid down – even if production is shifted between the different mercenaries, which are again far away from each other. After a while, the pollution that occurs is completely gone, and you can again use previous plants. It is also worth noting today’s technology, with automatic metered feeding facilities to minimise the burden on the environment of waste feed. The same applies to medication, which is largely gone. The same applies to protection against use for recreational purposes. It's almost not a fjord arm that's not protected from something. It's almost like it's only the residents who are not protected. In Mistfjorden, which passes Kjerring Island, I've speeded every summer since I was in my knuckles. Every weekend, recreational boats enter the fjord for recreational purposes. People enjoy the sanctuary and use nature. This will now become a national park with limited possibilities for use. As I said, I have been using this fjord for almost 45 years, from spring to autumn. And either one believes it or not, one can almost find no sign of use in the harvest. Then I ignore some fire place that is there, but those tracks are gone when the winter storms have been made. Why should this be protected against everything and everyone when people themselves are able to take care of nature without the help of a highly aidable magnification, which in turn is assisted by the State Environmental Protection Department? As a user of these areas, and as one of the few that come from the north and are still not protected, my prayer to the Stortinget is: Stop sending us protective plans before we are eradicated! As amazing as it may seem, we are able – over the last 8 000 years – to take care of the north coast through use, without extensive laws, regulations, plans and other public regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e337	The real course of this message is really from the early 1980s, St.meld. No 68 for 1980-81, where it was considered that the thematic protection plans would also cover natural habitats other than ants, wetlands, seabirds and forests. inter alia: It was about beach beds. In this context, Nordland and Troms were considered most appropriate for the development of coastal protection plans in order to produce the protection values of the coastal zone and biodiversity as a whole. It took more than 15 years before the coastal protection plan for Northern Ireland was drawn up as the first, and when it finally arrived, it created resentment due to the lack of access to the use of protected areas and the high level of protection of marine areas there up to 90 pst. of the protection areas were at sea, while the parties involved felt that they had not had enough influence in the planning process. Thus, there was still a high level of protection and little opportunity for the development of future nutrition — fish farming. This provoked the coastal population, who for decades have managed both cultural landscapes, flora and fauna, so that Norway today has the most vibrant and attractive coastline in Europe. We know that the greatest threat to the coastal zone is depopulation and the reduction of activities and industrial activities, which will destroy the coastal zone. Fortunately, on 5 March 1998, Mr Bjørna Olsen's interpellation led to Minister for the Environment Guro Fjellanger's debate today on protection and use in the coastal zone, St.meld. No 43 for 1998-99, in a very sensible way in relation to both the environment and industry. I believe that the need for protection and conservation along our long-range coast is as important as the need for conservation in inland and mountain areas, but at the same time we must take into account the importance of the traditional fishing industry in the coastal zone, and not least in North Norway. If resources are harvested rationally, the fishing industry will be a security for the future of the coast. If these objectives are to be met, it is essential that fishermen and the coastal population continue to have access to coastal areas. If the aquaculture industry is to be the heir to the oil industry, this industry must have access to good seas and sea basins in order to avoid disease, but as much so that the marine environment is able to recover. This Communication provides for the possibility of combining the protection of marine areas and the use of the same area for aquaculture activities to a greater extent than in previous protection decisions. This will make effective use of our marine resources and our natural relationships to realise the high market potential of marine products. This is good rural policy, but also good national policy. But in our eagerness to create business, we also need to actively think about the environment. I'm going to say that no kind of nutrition today has the right to life without thinking about the environment. What worries me is how much of the total coastal zone is intended to be protected by the Law of Nature. We know that conservation plans under the Nature Conservation Act are valid for all futures, but there is no need to predict developments in the areas we are talking about here. Consequently, situations will arise in which developments in the protection area indicate a change or suspension of protection. Perhaps, then, it is most appropriate to apply the Seawater Fishing Act and/or the Breeding Act as far as possible. In any case, it is important that the Government now undertakes the monitoring and monitoring of biodiversity, which will provide us with answers on the need for evaluation of various protection decisions. The evaluation will provide us with answers as to whether the protection values are in line with the purpose of protection, and it will be able to demonstrate the effects of protection on the community and, where appropriate, economic development. Should I conclude from an overall assessment what a majority has come up with in relation to this communication, I believe that most interests related to protection and use in the coastal zone have been safeguarded. I am pleased that the Government will take a closer look at the nature reserve and national park protection categories and assess the introduction of a new category of marine protection, and that the Government will consider reducing the size of the sea area in the context of the coastal protection plan for Northern Ireland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e363	It's really an important thing we have to deal with today, and it's good that as many people get involved as the case has been today. Norway has natural premonitions that are good for aquaculture in the broadest sense. There's reason to remember that our marine areas are among the most nutritious in the world. Furthermore, our coast is a recreational area with open-air access, and it has environmental qualities that must be taken care of in a holistic way. All concerns must be coordinated and secured. Literally, you can say that the interests are in the same boat. The natural demonstrators provide a great potential for value creation, and it is our natural resources that have formed the basis for our well-being up through history. Our oil and gas resources are not renewable, and we need to plan new value creation that can be included and taken over when the oil and gas adventure is on fire. Our research environment has estimated that we can generate values for 200-250 billion dollars a year over the course of 20-30 years based on marine resources. It is quite clear that if this is to become a reality, we must take the height of a development in which we take care of the premonitions and in which coastal zones to be used for production are not delimited in such a way as to exclude us from economic activity. There is reason to point out that the value creation potential based on marine resources can only be realised by establishing a management that takes care of both environmental and industrial considerations. In reality, we need to establish the acceptability of coastal zone facilities to become as common as on land. If we want this value creation, we have to take it into account that it will lead to some costs. Development must be research and knowledge-based. There are no shortcuts, and in such a perspective, it is good that Stortinget has stated that marine research should be given priority in the future. The size will shortly adopt a R & D fee for the Norwegian fishing industry, and we will also adopt in a short time the revision of the breeding laws which provide for environmental measures such as the approval of plants and facilities, and which also permits the prohibition of farming in specific zones. There's reason to remind you that there's a couple of obligations attached to the right to exploit our coastal zone, and that's also reason to remind them that they're clear about it. Increased emphasis must be placed on teaching in schoolchildren who are mints of protection and use in coastal zones. It is through an active hold from the local population that we can get the best management of the coastal zone and that the leading precautionary principle really gets content. At all times, our coastal populations have been the best administrators of natural resources, and have actually had a clear self-interest in it. Local authorities have a great responsibility to facilitate and regulate our coastal areas as well, and in such a perspective, it must be ensured that an appropriate plan manual is developed which specifies the type of factors to be involved in the process and how they should be emphasised in relation to each other. It will also have the effect of ensuring more equal treatment in all coastal areas and helping to improve the quality of planning processes, even though professional competence may be different in different municipalities. It's a reality we have to take inwards, and for which we have to suppress. Finally, I would like to say that we must meet the challenge of both protecting and using our coastal zone, so that the necessary value creation is triggered, and that nature is preserved in a long-term perspective – we all have a responsibility to participate in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e386	The Government believes that protection under the Nature Conservation Act should continue to be included as part of the entire land management system in order to ensure particularly vulnerable or valuable parts of Norwegian nature. As the Committee also points out, the conservation of biodiversity will best be achieved through a combination of protection and sustainable use. The Government assumes that there is a need to impose a high level of coordination and balance between user and protection interests. The government will therefore ensure that some coastal areas are secured by protection under the Nature Conservation Act, while there are sufficient areas suitable for the harvesting of natural resources and for the production of food by sea. I believe that the principles set out in the Storing Communication will contribute to this. Only through comprehensive land management will we be able to ensure sustainable development along the coast. Sustainable development requires a living coastline, it also requires a viable and forward-looking industrial policy. Like the majority of the Committee, I would like to stress the importance of maintaining the precautionary principle in assessing the extent and restrictions of protection areas. It is therefore important, as the Committee also points out, that the nature protection law is not undermined by the liberalisation of the protection regulations. Areas protected by the Nature Conservation Act contain natural values of international, national or regional value which it is important to ensure for future generations. I note that the Committee agrees with this understanding and that therefore protection areas cannot be managed as all other areas in relation to, among other things. economic activity. From a long-term perspective, the reference value of the areas will be given high weight when assessing different activities. I would like to make it clear that the establishment of protected areas should always be based on the purpose of the protection and that protected areas should not be more territorially large or have more stringent restrictions than are necessary to ensure the protection values. I note that the Committee agrees with this, but also points out that the scope and limitations of the protection areas must be weighed against the precautionary principle. The government will go carefully through the proposed boundaries of the draft coastal protection plan in Northern Ireland to assess the reduction of the sea areas proposed for protection. I note that the Committee agrees that marine protection plans should be drawn up. The government will follow this up as provided in the message. The Government, like the Committee, is committed to the local anchoring of the process in relation to protection plans with good dialogue between environmental protection authorities and all stakeholders. I believe that this will also be important as anti-conflict measures, but will nevertheless clarify that participation is not always the same as that all parties have an impact on their views. There are many and often conflicting interests to be weighed against each other when setting up protected areas. It is the responsibility of the Government to make such a balance and to ensure that both protection interests and other interests, such as business interests, are properly assessed. Moreover, the government will facilitate local management of the protection areas, as the majority assume. I have noticed that the Committee believes that the need for a driving ban should be assessed in individual areas of protection. This will be done as part of the review of the protection regulations. Environmental protection and fisheries authorities will carry out a review of the protection regulations governing tare radiation. The Committee points to the need to extend the activities of the State's nature monitoring to include environmental monitoring in coastal areas in order to combat animal crime. To this end, I would like to point out that the State Nature Conservation Act also applies in the coastal zone, and that there is already a cooperation between the State's nature oversight and the Internal Coastal Supervision. This will develop further. A majority of the Committee emphasises that the obligation to investigate lies with the trader or the holder of measures, as is normal practice in land-based development or action. Thus, if measures in an existing protection area become relevant, the nutritionist himself must ensure that the measure in question will not conflict with the purpose of protection. The government agrees. The Committee points to the relationship between protection interests and aquaculture in the Froan Landscape Protection Area of the South Trøndelag. The Committee considers it important, on a scientific basis, to examine the long-term impact on nature and the environment of such activities in protected areas. The implementation of such projects must normally form part of the investigator's obligation to investigate. I feel confident that the guidelines now drawn up by the Communication will facilitate the overall management of the coastal zone, taking into account both user and protection interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e412	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e415	It is uplifting that we have got this case in Stortinget. I take it as a sign that it is useful to protest – something that both the people and the politicians in the Nordic countries did when they felt overwhelmed by the issue of protecting parts of the coast in the Nordic countries. I am pleased that the Stortinget has been given the opportunity to speak on such an important matter, and I believe that this communication and the Committee's comments have provided a good basis for the consideration of coastal defence plans in the North and Troms. Fourth of our coastline is located in the North. It represents a large area, as well as natural resources and diversity of great importance for both protection and industrial interests. The Communication states that planning processes should be improved and that business interests should be better safeguarded. It is positive that food and user interests are involved in the planning process in line with the landowners. It is essential that local and regional users have a ownership relationship with the plans. There is no doubt that some reference areas in which the ecosystem operates as fully as possible are desirable, otherwise sustainable use must be the basis for both housing, business and protection – which has also been established over time. The development potential of the marine industry is high, perhaps particularly in the northern coastal areas. There might be reason to notice that although the proposed protected area is in total small, 3 pst. from the area to the territorial limit, it shall be between 20 and 30 pst. of the areas where aquaculture is possible. Prerequisites and knowledge may be changed. Innovations take place, e.g.: in the field of disease problems. It may be difficult to see the long-term consequences of specific measures and activities today. Therefore, I hope that it will not be added to static protective plans, but that the plans can be adjusted or rolled for both nutritional and protective interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e432	In my previous post it went a little fast at the end. That's why I'm taking the floor again to clarify: it's not the coastal defence plan for Northland and Troms that's being treated. It's in the department! It may be adopted by a club sequestration, for nothing in the notice states that it is to be re-examined and then re-written in line with what is adopted today. It's not here! It's all the way up to the government if they're going to write about the plan so it's going to be in line with what the Storting decides. Because we're not saying that! We are not saying that the coastal defence plan for Northland and Troms should be rewritten so that it is in line with what we are adopting today. It is important that people are aware of this when they vote down my proposal. The plan is today – as I said at the end – in the Directorate to assess whether it should be reworked. That's the point! That's got to be clear when we get to voting. When it comes to percentages of the area being protected, it's funny to think back that they talked about the protection of land areas being such a small part. When one began to look at this, it was found that there was much greater protection on land than what constituted cultivated land. We addressed this in the debates when I became a wholesaler. Then you have stopped using percentages for the protection of land areas. That argument went away. That's just the point! Now, in the setting that's being adopted, we say that the law of nature protection is going to apply all the way to the territorial border. Do you know how far out it is? Well, it's out to the 4-mile limit, 7.4 km outside the outer edge – from the Russian border to the Swedish border and into our fjords. 7.4 km out into the open sea – we'll decide that here! That's why it's important that we have 'on our feet' when we're going to adopt it, that we know what the legal basis is. That's why it's important to get it evaluated. It is not enough that there is a bureaucrat in the Ministry of Justice who makes an assessment and says: One assumes that the law of nature protection will also apply in the sea. What should the value creation of the coast be? Should we be able to create values for 240 to 250 billion in 20 years, or should we live by caring for each other, make sure that we do not rudder through a healthy area that is at peace, or that we run a motorboat with a 10 horse trailer engine – or a 400,500 horse Sabb diesel? Is that what we're going to live on the coast? The state’s nature oversight is the new growth industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3258]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e462	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3259]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e476	In view of the international crime picture we can see today, it is essential that Norway participates in and engages in police cooperation with other countries and international organisations. Cross-border crime is often what one must call organised crime. Drug trafficking, exports of stolen cars, human trafficking, financial crime and prostitution are activities organised by criminal groups across borders. Another special feature one has been able to record recently is that the distinction between illegal intelligence and organised crime has become more unclear than it was in the past. It is also alarming that professional criminals use threats to a greater extent than in the past when they think it is too good. In the wake of the increasing internationalisation of the economy and technological development, there is reason to fear an ever-increasing use of, for example: electronic banking services related to criminal activities, where the criminal himself may carry out transfers without the active involvement of the financial institutions concerned. There is reason to believe that whitewashing operations are largely relevant in this context. Another new arena for international organised crime is the risk of estimation of data and telecommunications. This type of crime, like the fight against the so-called hacker criminal and the Internet distribution of child pornography, requires great attention. This list of different types of crime shows that the effective fight against the various forms of crime, both traditional and recent, is very challenging and requires a strong international police exposure, in which a desire for Norwegian police to be an important and active actor. From the Norwegian side, Økokrim, Kripos and the Police Monitoring Service must be key actors in their fields of expertise. The Communication describes Norwegian participation in pre-existing police cooperation. A joint committee supports the Norwegian commitment, so it would be unnecessary for me to go through this cooperation in detail, but I will take note of certain broad lines and the importance of cross-border police cooperation. Interpol is a very important body for international police cooperation, where it is important that we continue to focus on our participation in the future from the Norwegian side. I would like to highlight in particular the importance of the establishment of a dedicated European office at Interpol in order to streamline and coordinate cooperation between the 45 European Member States. Coordination is at all a key word in international police cooperation. It is absolutely necessary both for efficiency and for the most reasonable use of resources, for example: The Interpol European Agency is coordinated with other European organisations such as the Council of Europe, Schengen, Europol and the Baltic Sea Task Force on Organised Crime. Another example where cooperation is needed is the work of the Council of Europe through the Pompidou Group on responses to the drug problem in Western Europe and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in Lisbon. I would also like to point out the need for the UN Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention in Vienna to coordinate its activities in full with other international police cooperation. An overall committee has underlined that Norway should be a leading country in training foreign police. In countries that have recently gained relative autonomy and where a democratisation process is underway, this can be particularly topical. It is therefore important that Norway continues its commitment to training the police in the Baltic region. Furthermore, Norwegian efforts to increase police competence in third world countries are very important. The Norwegian emphasis on assistance to the judiciary, police and prison services when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now revising the guidelines for Norwegian democracy assistance is a right priority. In this respect, I would particularly like to point out the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' assistance this year to the Council of Europe's 'Police and Human Rights 1997-2000' programme, especially the parts of the programme relating to Turkey. In terms of training, I would also like to point out the useful representatives of the Norwegian police may have from participating in training and training in the direction of foreign police authorities. Important competences can thus be transferred to the Norwegian police. Civil police – the so-called Civpol – have been and will become important in international peace operations. It has been right for Norwegian governments to put police officers at the disposal of peace and stability conservation operations in conflict-affected areas. The new thing about the police in Kosovo was that there were then questions about putting operationally armed police officers at the disposal of them. I believe that the previous government made good and considered assessments before one made the decision that Norway should stop with such forces. Should it be appropriate to do the same in other areas in the future, it must be assessed separately in the relevant situations. From the existing crime scene, Baltic Sea cooperation must be prioritised from the Norwegian and Nordic sides. In this context, the Labour Party is very pleased that the Baltic Sea Region Summit in Kolding decided to extend the mandate of the Baltic Sea Task Force on Organised Crime, or BSTF, as it is called. Action against organised crime in this area is of great importance. The fact that the BSTF has set up its own operational committee involving police, customs and prosecution officials at operational level seems to make a lot of sense. Although the Norwegian starting point is to the greatest extent possible to participate in international forums, it was important in 1998 to conclude a bilateral agreement with Russia on the exchange of information on, inter alia, terrorism, drug crime, financial crime, theft and violation of customs law. I would also like to mention the Nordic PTN cooperation, or the police and customs cooperation, as it really is, which has evolved into a very well-functioning cooperation between customs and police in the Nordic countries. The Nordic liaison regime has been observed internationally. The fact that one now extends their tasks from focusing solely on drug-related tasks to other forms of crime is very positive. The idea is that they should now also pay attention to other international crime, such as environmental crime, the smuggling of highly taxed goods, illicit trafficking in art/antiquities, child pornography and human trafficking. Schengen cooperation will be very important in preventing and resolving criminal acts. I've said that before, and I'd like to repeat it now, that it must not be easier for criminals to operate across borders than it is for the police to fight this crime. It is therefore appropriate to record that the Ministry of Justice is in dialogue with Sweden and Finland in order to establish an agreement on the cross-border cross-border access to observation and the authorisation to pursue fresh cross-border tracks. These possibilities lie within the Schengen Convention. It is worth mentioning that Schengen cooperation is also possible to develop judicial cooperation in order to achieve a more effective international mutual assistance system in this area. The main point of this Communication may be our future relationship with Europol because it is a matter of future cooperation, while the rest of the Communication broadly describes already existing issues. Europol became operational from 1 July 1999 and there is a strong consensus that Europol is now and will in the future be the most important action by EU countries to combat and prevent the serious international organised crime. I have previously pointed to the valuable Nordic police cooperation. As Sweden, Finland and Denmark are members of the EU, it goes without saying that a Norwegian formalised link to Europol will be a strength for the further development of Nordic police cooperation. The Treaty of Amsterdam transferred parts of EU justice and home affairs to supranational cooperation on free movement. However, police cooperation remains part of intergovernmental cooperation organised within the third pillar of the EU. Therefore, of course, a Norwegian Europol-related agreement must be concluded at intergovernmental level and must be drawn up in line with Norwegian legislation. At the EU Council meeting on 27 March, Europol was now given final negotiating competence in relation to third countries. Prior to this date, Europol was already in the process of conducting a survey of the situation in any third country. At Europol’s initiative, such a meeting was held with Norway — in fact, as the first of the candidate countries concerned — on 2 and 3 March. In particular, it is reassuring for the EU to pay particular attention to the fact that Europol’s cooperation partners have a sufficiently high level of privacy and data security. In this connection, I would like to point out that earlier this year, particularly on 7 March, the Stortinget dealt with Innst. O. No 51 for 1999-2000 on the law on the processing of personal data. This law is largely based on the EU Data Protection Directive. It would then be quite obvious that, as an EU body, Europol should also have a somewhat similar starting point in the area of information protection, privacy and data security. Furthermore, on 26 and 27 April of this year, Europol organised a major seminar with the participation of future co-operation countries. Europol provided a broad presentation of the Europol Convention, which is the basis for Europol's activities. The content of the so-called model agreement drawn up by Europol as a possible starting point for negotiations with third countries was also examined at that meeting. I am pleased that both Norwegian and Europol are already preparing for a Norwegian Europol-related agreement. And I would like to stress the importance of establishing a third-country agreement with Europol as soon as possible. A Norwegian agreement with Europol, as mentioned above, will need to be at intergovernmental level and within Norwegian legislation, and will need to include technical and strategic cooperation, operational cooperation and deployment of one or more liaison officers at Europol’s head office. The Agreement will also necessarily include cooperation in the areas of crime within the remit of Europol. These include illicit trafficking in nuclear material, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in lost vehicles, trafficking in human beings, terrorism and money laundering in these areas of crime. These areas are well in line with the crime fields I mentioned earlier in the article, and I would also like to stress the need for coordination in relation to other cross-border police cooperation. Europol will become very important in the fight against organised crime, and that is why it is among other things. important that, through our agreement, we ensure the necessary opportunities from the Norwegian side for discussions and consultations as Europol develops further. In the case of any future extension of Europol’s mandate, Norwegian participation must be decided on an autonomous Norwegian basis when appropriate. This review should clearly show the importance of international police cooperation. We must make sure that the police are given every opportunity to deal with the international nature of crime. I believe that we need to facilitate Norway to be an important and central player in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e557	Police cooperation in the Nordic region and in the rest of Europe is producing results, without me getting too much into it. In the view of the Progress Party, more attention needs to be paid to international police cooperation in the fight against increasingly professional crime, which is spreading. Such cooperation will clearly be one of the police's most important weapons in the fight against drugs, for example. Extended use of screening will provide valuable information that can be passed on to the police in the co-operation country. In an international police network, there is a need for methods such as space listening, as is the case in liberal Denmark. Even when the Danish police provide us with information from legal interception carried out there, the prosecution authorities in this country are not allowed to use it as evidence in Norwegian courts. This is what the Progress Party is responding to, and we will put forward a proposal when the time comes to extend access to evidence. I've taken this up in the oral question procedure, a few weeks ago. At that time the Minister of Justice said that she did not perceive the content, or the message, of what I came with. Europol is at the heart of European police work. The Progress Party wants to emphasise privacy and, in this context, is very committed to combating crime by tougher, but also fair, means. A central register of standardised data containing convicted persons and offenders who have committed crimes within the Europol area is of great importance. Europol became operational on 1 July 1999 and the computer system will be completed in 2001. Included in this will be a comprehensive and detailed fingerprint system intended for asylum seekers in Europe. It may reveal real asylum seekers and it may reveal any criminal asylum seekers. Furthermore, this will be important when an asylum seeker is undocumented and seeks asylum on false premises. The effectiveness of Europol’s strategy must be positive, especially in combating organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e577	Organised international crime is increasingly affecting the image of crime across Europe. In recent years, the authorities in these countries have recognised the need to take measures to prevent organised criminal groups from constantly expanding their activities and thereby becoming a major threat. The groups are mainly active in areas such as drug trafficking, exports of stolen cars, trafficking in human beings, special forms of economic crime and prostitution-related crime. One has also seen a development that professional criminals increasingly use to some extent brutal violence and threats in order to safeguard their interests. This crime of violence has also become more international. There have been cases where criminals in Norway have contacted like-minded people abroad to carry out torpedo and threat missions in this country. One can clearly record the existence of networks of international branches behind relatively extensive organised crime. This requires extensive contact and cooperation between police across borders. Norway has over time contributed to the development of effective international police cooperation. PTN cooperation is a police and customs cooperation between the relevant Nordic authorities and has developed over the years into well-functioning cooperation. Extension of this cooperation has been adopted, from unique drug tasks to other crimes, such as drug trafficking and drug trafficking. environmental crime, the smuggling of highly taxed goods, child pornography and human smuggling. It is worth noting that the government considers the Nordic police cooperation agreement to be very useful and completely unproblematic. The Baltic Sea region is currently a priority area of cooperation for Norway and the other Nordic countries. Norway has traditionally chosen informal cooperation as the basis for its bilateral police cooperation. A unanimous Justice Department has stated that Interpol will continue to be an important communication channel for cross-border police cooperation in the future. I have also noted with satisfaction that an overall committee is of the opinion that the direct cooperation between the Member States on which Interpol is based without being dependent on the formalities resulting from a convention can be a strength because in some cases it is easier to achieve pragmatic solutions than it is in cooperation with strict, formal frameworks. With regard to the establishment of a third country agreement with Europol, the Central Party shares the Committee's view that Europol should not replace other forms of police cooperation, but rather be a complement to other forms of cooperation and to organisations in which we participate. In the Centre Party, we have also stressed that an agreement should be at intergovernmental level and that it must be drawn up in line with Norwegian legislation. The agreement will therefore include cooperation in the crime areas covered by the mandate of Europol, i.e.: illicit trafficking in drugs, illicit trafficking in nuclear material, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in lost vehicles, trafficking in human beings, terrorism and money laundering. It is also reassuring that a unanimous committee emphasises that participation in any future extension of Europol’s mandate must be decided on an autonomous Norwegian basis as this may become the case. As regards the need to ensure legal certainty and privacy in relation to Europol’s data registers, I refer to my comments in the setting. I am very surprised that the other parties in the committee, at least the Christian People's Party, have not been able to join my remarks on this point. The observations are completely identical to the views expressed by the Data Protection Authority. The Committee has not previously questioned the competence and willingness of the Data Protection Authority to ensure the protection of privacy in line with the traditions of Norway in this area. Finally, I think there is reason to commend the department for its work on the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e600	SV agrees that effective methods must be put in place in the fight against organised crime. We too are concerned about the growth we see. Crime that is organised and flows freely across borders may, if large-scale, destabilise democratic structures and, of course, threaten many individuals. Those who support the fight against organised crime must also support the development and cooperation of the police across borders, i.e. international police cooperation, in order to match a well-organised network of hard-to-earth justice, and because the new technology also provides criminal new opportunities, which it provides in other areas of society. That is why I fully agree with the case rapporteur when he says that we need to equip the police with tools to match the criminals in the fight against organized crime. This message describes, as others have said, very extensive police cooperation in the Nordic countries, in Europe and globally through Interpol. I must say that I am both calm and quite surprised at the extent of international cooperation. That's how far we agree. But as responsible politicians, we need to ask some critical questions about the extent of organised crime, and to demand evidence from both the police and researchers as the basis for the decisions we take. If one does, the picture is somewhat more nuanced than what appears in the political debate, and especially in this message. Unlike the previous speaker, in some areas I am not at all impressed by the work done by the department. In particular, the previous Minister of Justice has done a bad job in obtaining a nuanced picture of organised crime and asking some critical questions. Let me quote from the Danish annual report on organised crime for 1998. It can all be read on the Internet, on the websites of the Danish police. One would think that the picture is kind of the same here as in Denmark. It concludes as follows – in translation: ‘On the basis of comparisons with foreign reports, organised crime in Denmark appears to be at a relatively modest level. However, the nature and gravity of organised crime in Denmark are, in certain areas, at the level of what is seen in other countries. There is still nothing to suggest that internationally known criminal organisations have been able to really create footholds in Denmark.’ In other words, there is no need to minimize organised crime, and it will increase as a result of the free movement of goods, services, capital and people and as a result of the reduction of border surveillance. But we also must not inflate the image beyond its proportions, because it will in turn force methods that represent major privacy issues. It brings me to Europol. We support intergovernmental cooperation with Europol to combat organised crime. I am pleased that the Committee stresses that participation in any future extension of Europol’s mandate must be decided on a maritime basis. This is important, because shipping if police cooperation is part of the third pillar today, we have no guarantee that it will be so in the future. On the contrary, we see that judicial and police cooperation is part of the emergence of the Union project. What surprises me is the uncritical presentation of Europol in this message. It is completely smooth and without wrinkles, and is in stark contrast to the heated debate taking place in the EU on the fundamental issues of privacy, data security and legal certainty that the development of Europol, and in particular the computer system TECS, represents. This formable system is deflected with seven lines in the Storing Message. That is why we have not received the nuanced debate here in Norway, for example. has been in the European Parliament. The current Minister of Justice should be commended for the fact that there are certain concerns, as I read her letter to the Committee. I would also like to commend the current Minister of Justice for being, in fact, the first Minister of Justice for many years to make it clear that there are questions about developments in this area. The TECS computer system is the heart and brain of Europol. It consists of three sub-registers. The part to which extra attention should be paid is the analysis registers, which are not specified in the Europol Convention, only in the so-called implementing rules. And here, comprehensive data can be recorded temporarily. In certain circumstances, information on racial, religious or political origins, sex or health may be recorded and used. In regulating the information to be provided to Europol, Norwegian legislation takes the view that a direct link to the Europol computer system, the TECS, as it is today, is not relevant, and I would like the Minister of Justice to comment on that very point. Furthermore, the SV supports the comments of the Centre Party in the Judicial Committee. I think they take good care of the vision that SV also has.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e632	What made it necessary to take the word again was the intervention of the representative Tor Nymos. Then something was also said from the representative, Ågot Valle, whom I would like to comment on a little. It seems to me that the representative Tor Nymo, when it comes to Schengen and Europol, is in a way the programme obligation to say something against it without necessarily being based on reality. One thing he did not mention – to include Schengen first – but, as he says in his remark, he cannot join the comment of the rest of the Committee on the possibilities of future judicial cooperation in Schengen. It's really amazing not to be able to join it, because there's one based exclusively on the big message that was presented by the previous government. In particular, the provisions relating to Schengen state that one can extend the scope of application from a request for mutual assistance and give access to further simplified transmission of legal requests. I assume that Tor Nymo was also part of the parliamentary basis of the previous government, and it is incredible that he does not support a case like this, which clearly provides an additional opportunity for judicial cooperation between states. When it comes to privacy and legal certainty, I went into it in my main post, and I think I'll turn it a little bit on my head. So, what was Europol's starting point? Europol’s starting point for the meeting in Norway was that third countries should have sufficient levels in these fields. In addition, we know that the data protection law that has just been adopted is based on the EU directive, so that in many ways we are already in it in line with what the EU countries are basing on. And it's not right to believe that we're necessarily world champions, or European champions in this case, in all areas. It is a condition on the part of Europol that Norway is good enough in this field. The comment from Tor Nymo also points to the Data Protection Authority and the police regarding this with personal data. In connection with that law, we have just said that police records are special. These are registers as a user in the context of the investigation of crime. That is why we have said that it is necessary to establish special rules for handling such registers, and that is of course what the Ministry is now doing. Equalising all other types of registers and police records is not correct. So Ågot Valle also mentions something in relation to what goes on privacy and registration. Among other things, she mentions: sexual orientation, religious affiliation, etc. Now I don't know if Ågot Valle was active in the debate we had on the Personal Information Act – I don't remember – but it is clear that this is information that is included in the so-called sensitive information with special rules, and that is within Norwegian personal information law. What will happen to the police records will show up, but there are special data to be handled afterwards. But again I remind you that now we are talking about police records in this context. With regard to Europol’s computer system, there is something written about it in the letter from the Ministry. I can quote a little bit of what it says: ‘For the time being, it is unclear whether a direct link to the Europol computer system could be considered relevant. [[TECS]] I therefore feel that some of the things that came up here, which are of course very important, are well cared for by what is organized by the ministry, and what the committee has done in its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e652	It is not surprising that the rapporteur has the maids out when someone dares to question privacy and legal certainty in relation to EU registers. The Labour Party has traditions to try to minimize precisely the concerns that Norway has contributed to over the years through the Data Protection Authority. It is enough to refer to the 1998 Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority — which is a few years back in time — and to a consultation opinion of the Data Protection Authority when the Ministry of Justice sent out proposals for legislation on the Schengen Information System. The Data Protection Authority issued a critical consultation opinion and they said: ‘Central data protection rights are not adequately respected in the proposal, such as the right to access and erasure of data. The proposal sets aside the decision-making powers of the Data Protection Authority in a number of key areas. This applies, inter alia, to: decision-making authority in relation to the rectification and erasure of information as formulated in the Personal Register Act...’;» This has been tried on several occasions by the rapporteur and the Labour Party. But the right thing to do is: what has happened in the EU over the last two years has been very positive, including in terms of legal certainty: data protection. We know that the EU has worked very closely with the Norwegian Data Protection Authority to use the expertise that lies in the experience of the Data Protection Authority and the strict data protection legislation we have in Norway. In the same way, the EU bodies in the field of Europol are also on the right track. But I think it's absolutely right of me, which is also supported by SV, that I point out and clarify what the Data Protection Authority says, that it's still a good thing to pick up before we get the secure registration that should be the basis, where we also take legal and privacy considerations. We think that's right to express. It does not help the rapporteur, who is actually in favour of a reasonable pro-EU attitude, to try to minimize the view of the Data Protection Authority, which has the highest competence in Norway on precisely these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e666	I would like to comment on a few questions that have either been asked or have been commented on in relation to me. But first I would like to stress the strong need it is to have good and effective international cooperation in the field of police services and the fight against crime. There is no doubt in today's society that it is absolutely necessary to cope with a good deal of the kind of crime that we see emerging for many reasons, and it has been affected by several earlier in the debate. But these are two concrete things. One is the question of privacy, and specifically the TECS. I do not think we need to be afraid, on our part, that cooperation with Europol will provide less data protection security than we do in Norway, and I show you to the extent that Jan Petter Rasmussen has said about it. The Data Protection Act in Norway is based on the Data Protection Directive in the EU, and it is once again the basis of the Europol Convention, as it is formulated, precisely under the Data Protection Directive. But that doesn't mean, of course, that we don't always have to keep an eye on this area, because here's a continuous development that we obviously always have to pay attention to. There is a difficult balance in the relationship between privacy and the provision of an effective police service, in particular with regard to police cooperation and the conduct of police work in general. It is in the nature of the police service that when investigating criminal matters, you need to obtain information that you normally feel is personal. You can, for example: do not provide intelligence to neo-Nazi groups without registering any other personal data. In the case of TECS in particular, this – as the representative Valle said – is three-thirds. In the part that goes on the analysis tool, which I understood the representative Valle was particularly concerned about, these registers are intended to be created in specific cases, and they are intended to be created in connection with a special, concrete investigation case that is being conducted, so that there will be no general register that is to be accessed across borders, but they are linked to special cases and created in special cases, and only to the extent that one as a country is involved in the special investigation. There will be no direct connection, and any connection to a Europol system will in any case have to pass through a legal port, so that no free flow of information will be involved. The last thing I want to comment on is just short to the representative Stang – a follow-up to a previous small dispute we had in connection with the spontaneous questioning session, where I later managed to understand what the representative asked for. I understand that it was about the use of evidence that was obtained legally abroad, but that it would not be lawful to obtain in Norway. It could be about phone interception, and it could be about space listening. As far as I know, it is not at all pointed to Norwegian courts whether or not to use it. But it is clear that in some cases this will be a difficult balance, because as a police officer you have concrete evidence that has been obtained legally, and then the question is, are you going to be able to use it or not? I don't think it's easy to give a clear answer to that. As far as space listening is concerned, I think it's easier, and I'm rather in the direction that it should not be possible to use it, when there is actually no law on space listening of any character in Norway. When it comes to the question of telephone interception, I may be more in doubt, but I believe that this is primarily up to the courts in the first place, also because the courts will be able to give a more comprehensive assessment of it, in the same way as they do with some other types of evidence, like for example. police declarations, where police declarations can be used to the extent possible, but where they cannot be used if there is decisive evidence in the matter. So you have some of those middle forms that are also a possible solution. But as you see, you don't get a clear answer from me. I think it's a difficult question, and then it's stupid to press on to an answer before you're ready for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e679	The President finds it necessary to point out that speech should be directed via the President and not in du form. This means that the President will be adjusted at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e682	That's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e688	Jan Petter Rasmussen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e691	Just one more comment to the representative Nymo. He claimed that we have strict privacy in Norway, and that is what we have in relation to both Schengen and data protection legislation. It's clear that someone didn't take the idea of what the laws were called. The starting point is the content, and when we dealt with Schengen legislation, we went carefully through both privacy protection and corrective and erasure rules. With regard to the Data Protection Act, the Data Protection Authority, as he mentions, has been strengthened as a supervisory body. But I also want to finally remind you that in the case of the police register, it doesn't necessarily have to be 100 pst. consistency between the Data Protection Authority, the Police and the Biggest Authority's opinion on that type of register. The point is that we want strong privacy, and we need legislation that also complies with EU legislation in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e698	It has been said by several that since our personal data law is based on the EU Data Protection Directive, this information that we have talked about cannot be in line with Norwegian legislation. However, it is well that the EU Data Protection Directive makes explicit exceptions for, among other things. the activities of the State in the field of criminal law. I would like it confirmed. As a result, these sensitive data that can be recorded temporarily – I agree – in those analytical registers are not affected by these data protection directives. I think we are on the verge of being critical of the fact that it is at all possible to record information of a racial nature, about sexual orientation and about political opinions. Political opinions are not allowed to be monitored here in Norway either. History is full of good intentions, but that it must be a proper democratic control of these activities, history has also shown us. I would like to remind you of the case of Stephanie Mills, which we drew up in the context of the Schengen debate. Stephanie Mills did not enter the Netherlands because she was registered in France because of her activity when it came to demonstrations against the nuclear bombings in the Pacific. It shows what kind of danger we're facing. You can have the good intentions, but you have to follow closely. I see that the Minister of Justice is also concerned about that, and I am pleased about that. I particularly encourage her to look at developments in Europol. By being skeptical here, we can help support the cancers that are skeptical within the EU, and there are a lot of them. I referred to the debate that has taken place in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e705	The president just wants to establish that no one is infallible, and that also applies to this president. The President regrets that he restricted his speaking time to Mr. Rasmussen. As the rapporteur on the matter, he should of course have had a slightly larger swirling mouth in his access to speaking time. However, there is no call for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e708	I was asked to confirm that the Data Protection Directive provides for an exception to the activities of the State in the field of criminal law. If that is the wording, I am not quite sure, but that is otherwise correct. What is the message is that it is the principles of the Data Protection Directive that also permeate the Europol Convention. The Europol Convention was adopted before the Data Protection Directive, and there are several reasons why it does not directly concern the Europol Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e713	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3259]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e727	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 20 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e736	This message was presented by the Bondevik government, but it was easy for the new Labour Party government to stand behind it. In fact, it is astonishingly similar to the announcement made by the Labour Party Government in the autumn of 1989 on public legal aid. That message was drawn by the civil Syse government, but it is therefore astonishingly similar in terms of both structure and title, but also in terms of whole sections, assessments and proposals. The more happy it is that the vote now shows that there is a very large degree of consensus in the committee. A large part of the message is a review of today's system and history description. It's a useful backtrace to have when we're going to make decisions about changes. The review also reveals that there are very few studies in this area. The most recent study presented in the Communication dates from 1991 — i.e. nine years old — and there are no regular surveys that provide a comparison of trends. This is why an overall committee says that we need better statistics, better surveys, better evaluations, so that we get a good basis for making decisions. The free legal aid system must evolve in the same way as society does. It's hard to define what people's need for legal aid is. It's a flexible concept. Nor is it the case that the public should finance any legal needs. What's central is that it shouldn't be the wallet or the ability and the ability to change that is crucial to getting your right. And besides, the greater the personal significance of a matter, and the greater the intervention it is, the more important it is to get help. Modern welfare is a complex society. There are a lot of rules about people's rights. It's a well-regulated society. We have a conglomerate of rules, often it's like finding out in a maze before you get to the nucleus, to the point. That makes us need help. The studies conducted show that there is an unmet legal need among people. It is also quite alarming that investigations show that public bodies are dominating as counterparts in those cases where people have an unmet need. It also appears that the use of private lawyers is very uneven. Three quarters never consider using a lawyer, and that proportion is particularly high among people with low income and low education. The use of lawyers increases with income. Besides, most men use lawyers. It has been said that men go to the lawyer when they have a problem, while women go to the doctor. There might be something in there. But there are many other ways to get help than to go to a lawyer – or doctor for that matter. For example, management has an obligation to provide information and guidance to citizens. The country is well-developed with many consumer offices helping in consumer matters. We have various complaint topics for the industries where you can bring your case in. We have two law firms. We have stakeholder organisations that provide legal assistance to their members, and we have student rights measures. It is in this picture that free legal aid shall be the catalyst to provide legal assistance to those in need. Free legal assistance shall contribute to balancing conditions that make it different and classed for people in need of legal assistance seeking such assistance. This implies that we move on to the concreteities and details of the communication. There are some issues that are so important that you should get help regardless of your own economic situation, even if you have a income that is not very low. These are issues that are an intervention in the personal sphere, about issues where governments use power over a citizen. The number of cases covered by free legal aid varies from year to year, but in 1998 it accounted for more than half of the total number of cases. The Committee is in favour of maintaining this distinction with the fact that the most important issues, those which are most important to people, are not to be tested in terms of income. But if you have a small income, you don't have anything left, and then you don't have money for legal aid. From 1997 the income limit has been DKr 150 000 for lone and DKr 170 000 for dependants. So we're talking about low incomes. However, a quarter of Norway’s households are below this limit. There are several people who have suggested that this limit should be raised, but no one is suggesting it here today. It comes from the message and also from the input that we have received from different teams while working on the matter, that there are other things than the income limits that are a bigger problem compared to getting legal aid, and then we talk about the coverage area of free legal aid. That's why we're going to go in order to adjust the price limit annually. We go in order that the owner-occupied dwelling should not in any case be regarded as a property – only in exceptional cases. And we're going in to expand the coverage. However, the Committee also states that once the changes have been made, the scheme must be followed up and evaluated. If it turns out that there is still an unmet need that can be caused by too low income limits, you have to look at raising them. The Committee is therefore in favour of extending the scope. The most important issues that now come in as priority issues are issues where a public body is a counterparty. So far, they've been unprioritized. So it's only in exceptional cases that you've been helped in such cases. It has primarily been justified by the precise disclosure and guidance obligations of the administration. Legal aid should not be necessary when the case handlers and the public are required to provide guidance, but it turns out in practice that this is not working properly enough. This is probably due to the fact that the legislation has become more comprehensive and more complicated. It has been more sectored than it has been, and it is also not possible to hide that administrative case handlers have a high level of labour pressure and limited time to operate the guidance they are actually required. Of course, both attitudes and priorities in the administration need to be addressed so that such guidance can be provided. In addition, we see the need to withdraw legal assistance from the outside when the public is the counterparty. It is particularly relevant to provide legal advice in such a situation, but we do not exclude that there may also be a need for legal proceedings. Furthermore, there are some areas in which there have been liberal practices and where practices are now established as a rule. This applies, for example: child protection issues, where the demand for legal aid has been high, and has also been widely accepted. We take the consequences of that and include them among the priority issues. We also provide better legal aid in debt cases, and we will provide better legal aid to foreign women who have experienced a break in life and who have lived together as a basis for residence in the country. We want to equate those issues with other types of foreign affairs and foreign affairs. Child distribution matters are very special – there are things that ideally shouldn't be brought into any legal system at all, but the ideal situation we're not in. They're special because this isn't a fight between two parties that's the point, but it's giving the innocent third party in the middle the best possible solution. Therefore, there should be a level playing field between parents. We have had a liberal practice. Many exemptions from the income limit have been granted in this type of case, precisely to seek equal pay. However, the Committee considers that there may be a need to consider several measures to ensure this, such as: a limited free legal advice regardless of income. The proportion of ownership is a chapter separately. They cover a very small proportion of the total expenditure, and there is also a large administrative cost of having it. In fact, they represent more than half of the income that comes in. It's a complicated code, and it's complicated calculations. Now we want a simplification. The self-esteem will primarily be a signal to users that it actually costs to avail itself of legal aid and is an attempt to prevent over-consumption because of some financial burden on yourself. We will therefore continue the arrangement with a base share – a kind of entrance ticket to get into the free legal aid system – which is now proposed to increase to NOK 500. In addition, it is natural for a supplement to be provided when the courts come into the picture. The right-hand side has a common denominator on how to design that supplement. The majority is in favour of the message sketch; 25 pst should remain. of the costs are covered, but with a ceiling of NOK 5000. We think that $5,000 is enough. Let's remember, here we're talking about people who have an income of 150 000-170,000 kroner. Moreover, such a cap will make it much simpler, and administratively, it will be a debureaucratisation of the scheme. The Committee also opens up the possibility of introducing a new margin. These are the non-necessary cases. When you get below them, but you have an income that's above the limit, we say you have to consider whether you're going to be able to collect a proportion. But there is something that needs to be used with caution because of the nature and meaning of the matter. The most reasonable thing for society, and what will also lead to the least human impact, is a clarification before you get to the judiciary. We can achieve that through the obligation of guidance, we can achieve that through a simplification of rules across the board, we can achieve that by presenting the rules in an comprehensible way to the user. This can also be achieved through better use of student law measures – we have five of them spread around the country with students making a formidable effort with a glowing commitment. The Committee would like to strengthen these measures and involve more students in that work. We also want to introduce a free initial consultation of half an hour to one hour without self-contained. The law-enforcement system that the Bar Association has put in place in 31 places, shows that much can be resolved only by such initial consultation and will be such a first aid for a lot of people. The Committee will not only maintain the diversity of legal aid measures but also extend and strengthen them. An overall committee says that stimulating various state-supported legal aid projects that are locally adapted, both to people’s needs and to local knowledge, is something that needs to be addressed. We think it's a pity that the Progress Party and the Right, after taking a positive view of diversity, does not join the next step, namely to have more legal aid in the public domain. The plural is going to go in for that. We do not want public law offices, but we point to the fact that the law office in Oslo works very well – such offices can be imaginable several places. We refer to the service offices that are built up in the districts, where there may be a need for legal assistance. We refer to other places that people look for when they have a legal need, such as crisis centres, etc. In addition, we need to make greater use of the legal access currently available to non-lawyers to provide legal advice. Then we hope – when we are now nine years late – that we will have a quick follow-up from the Council of State, that the bill will come, and that she will follow it closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e787	The Free Legal Aid Act itself contains only part of the provisions that actually apply. Important coverage areas are regulated elsewhere, including: in the Law on the Protection of Children, the Law on Mental Health and the Law on Criminal Procedures. In addition to the legal provisions, there are a number of regulations and the like which are relatively often changed by bureaucracy. The result is that it is difficult for lawyers and almost impossible for the public to know when there is a right to legal aid for the public. It is necessary that the legal aid code be simplified so that everyone finds it as accessible as possible, including lawyers and county councillors. Effective dissemination of the applicable law is important for the proper functioning of the laws. Efforts should be made to bring together all the provisions on free legal aid in one law. The scattered regulation also poses a risk of unintended holes or pockets where a case falls between two chairs, e.g. a case which can be both a child-restraint case and a criminal case. Judicial conflicts often take place between parties which have very different positions of power. No such case is more extreme than when the public opposes the individual citizen. The selection of areas eligible for free legal aid also means that the public largely protects itself against legal aid being given to citizens to promote interests against the State, county or municipality. So only social security matters fall within Section 18, not other cases. Public interference in the legal sphere of citizens is largely excluded, for example, from tax cases, where even the rules on the cost of actions when taxpayers win are unfavorable. It is only in the other Board of Appeal that the costs are covered by the agreement. An important aspect of free legal aid, which can be said to be very special, and especially typical in family and child distribution matters, but also in labour and household rentals, is the situation that may arise when one party receives free legal aid and the other does not receive it. Let's imagine that the man earns a little bit above the income limit and the woman marginally within the limit. Suddenly, a power inequality is introduced into a matter between them by the fact that one has the treasury to take off, while the other only has its salary. Another aspect is the admissible practice that is often followed for social security matters, namely the refusal of free legal aid by reference to the management's obligation to provide guidance and assistance in relation to complaints, appeals, etc. In this area, it is argued that this obligation renders legal assistance unnecessary. The fact that the counterparty is one's procedural agent is simply absurd and violates the legal certainty principle itself, in particular the objection principle. Although the management’s obligation to provide guidance is useful and effective in the majority of cases where there is no disagreement, where, for example, the applicant receives what he is applying for, or the refusal is manifestly correct and the applicant realises it, there is an insult to the individual when disputes or disagreement arise. Legal certainty guarantees are needed when something goes wrong or is disputed. Then, in return, it is all the more important. It is of particular importance to have a diversity in the provision of legal aid, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur. It must also be an objective to expand and strengthen this diversity, so that it targets the public rather than the public institution. Legal aid measures directed by law students targeting people who would not otherwise have sought legal assistance are of great importance and should be extended. In particular, there are free legal proceedings, where the five student law assistance measures cover a total of 14 000 judicial cases per year. years. The Party agrees with the introduction of a system of free initial consultation. It turns out that there is often only a brief guide to clarify the legal problem and that some of the issues with it can also be resolved. It would be a simplification and red tape for many cases to introduce such a system. It may be said that this is in a way a cost to the public of the acquisition of income, while at the same time ensuring the need for legal assistance to them below a certain income limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e808	There was a strange ironizing introduction to the rapporteur's posts, and it was referred to that we are now nine years behind schedule. I must then be allowed to replicate back that it took a very long time before the Workers' Party discovered that this was an important area. You didn't even get hold of it and did something about it, so you got it out for Stortinget. It was also such that the headlines and content were something that had been said before. And as the President can confirm with his close ties to the Defence Committee, it is unnecessary and wasted to spend time and energy inventing the powder that has already been invented. However, I would like to stress that it is important in this case to distinguish between the need for legal aid and the actual demand for legal aid. In the case of the public aid scheme, the overall objective should be to remove the obstacles that prevent people who actually need legal aid from seeking such assistance. There may be more reasons for this, and they may be different, e.g. that you do not know that it is possible to obtain assistance for the protection of your own rights, or that private legal aid is thought to be terribly expensive. It may be that you look at your own wallet, and it does not allow any legal assistance, or you simply do not understand that the matter is best served with the help of expertise, or there may be other reasons. It is therefore important that information on people’s legal rights is easily accessible, accessible to the target audience and easily understood. It is a responsibility for the information service in the state and municipal context to do so. There are currently different offers, such as: Student-rights assistance measures and various types of public law assistance offices in relation to matters specifically covered. In the Committee we agree that there is a great deal of resources among law students and that this resource should be used even better than today. We are uncertain about how this should be done and have discussed different possibilities. Obligations in our ears sound like something too dramatic, but perhaps some kind of practice in the study period, some sort of outsourcing, where experience was gained that also strengthened one's own competence in the work towards the examination of duties. In any case, it should be considered whether no more students than today can be involved in providing legal assistance and advice under public authority. We all agree that personal finances should not be a barrier to gaining their rights in areas of great importance. The rapporteur has gone through this in a comprehensive and thorough way, both in terms of the personal economy and in terms of the point where the Committee shares a majority and a minority, about a ceiling on the additional share of NOK 5000. We in the Christian People's Party are in the majority, so I skip it. The last point I want to mention relates to the dissenting assessment we have in relation to the Department, the Advance Party and the Right, where we stand together with the Labour Party and the Center Party, namely the fear that we will erase the distinction between free and independent legal assistance from lawyers linked up to a public assistance office and the public as a possible counterpart in the matter, and the fear that using publicly-paid lawyers in the field of legal aid we will get an A-layer of lawyers among the private practitioners and a B-layer paid by the public. First of all, the experience of the Oslo Public Legal Aid Office refutes the fear of confusion between the legal aid and the public as a counterparty. For many, seeking legal aid in a public office is less problematic than going to a private lawyer. User studies show that the audience is very satisfied with the offer and that they do not question the integrity or independence of the office. As for the fear of an A team and a B team, we would argue that lawyers who work a lot on matters in the areas of freedom of justice will acquire a special competence that benefits the user. This differs from private practice lawyers who more sporadicly deal with matters of such a nature. So it could be an A-layer the opposite way of what the minority claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e821	Since Mr. Marthinsen addressed himself to the president, the president for his part would just say that he would be most concerned that the powdered at all did not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e824	In a lecture in Bergen on 19 May, the Supreme Justice, Carsten Smith, said that it is essential that authorities recognise more widely through appropriations the importance of getting justice for the individual, the family and human life. Furthermore, he said that legal aid must be recognised as a fundamental right in a welfare society. What Carsten Smith said there, the committee has gone inward, and what we're in favour of in this setting, is to expand the legal aid system just with that in mind. We don't go as far as everyone would like, but we're going a little step in the right direction. The rapporteur has affected the whole of the setting, so I will briefly dwell on some points that I think are particularly important. First of all, there are student law-aid measures. These measures are completely free, and students help between 13 000 and 14 000 each year. They're making a fantastic effort with very small funds. And when the committee in the vote says unanimously that we will consider the expanded use of the students, we also undertake to do so in budgetary terms, and we have an opportunity to come back to the state budget for the autumn. Secondly, I would like to grasp perhaps the most important premise that people can be defined within the income package and thus receive free legal aid, and that is how we assess the wealth of people. Therefore, it is very good that the Committee unanimously states that the value of owner-occupied dwellings should not be taken into account in the assessment of wealth. It means that no one has to sell or borrow highly the dwelling they have, in order to assert their right. Furthermore, we focus on extending the free legal aid regime where the public is a counterparty. More often and more often, it will be when the little man faces a large and powerful public state, that the power relationship between the parties is most different. Just to be able to ensure that the small man who has a fundamentally important case, if necessary, has the financial opportunity to run the case through all three instances to the Supreme Court, is absolutely central to trying out important matters in the judiciary. The Committee has also previously given a signal in the same direction, and it is not least our experience in cases of cheap substitutes that has taught us that this is important. Then, almost one day, the Justice Committee, both as a single person and as a committee, does not get involved in tragic child distribution issues. And in such important matters, it's to make sure that not one of the parents can freely use three courts, while the other knows that you can't just claim it simply because you're standing without financial means to it. So asking for further action to be considered in order to bring about a better balance between parents in such cases is important, and I am pleased that the Committee has also unanimously called for this. There are some dissertations, but fortunately there are very few. One of these guys is on the prowl. The right does not want the public to take away the propensity to save money for the public, but we believe that removing the propensity can be combined with reducing the percentage that the individual has to pay when running a free legal aid case. Today it is set to 25 pst. We believe that by reducing the percentage to e.g. 10-15, we don't need the proportion, and we're going to have a more general correct relationship between how much the case costs and what the individual has to pay, so another way to calculate the proportion. Finally, the right goes against the public assistance office on a general basis. I want to underline the general basis, because we say in our remark that we do not reject the fact that there may be special needs that should be met through increased public offerings. Here, for example, I can. mention the offer people need when they come to the crisis centres, especially in violence against women. We do not rule out such special needs, and it may be important and proper for the public to go further in here, but general law-enforcement offices that are going to compete with general private law firms, we do not see the need, and we have therefore not wanted to go into this round. But the sum of what's in the committee's position is an improvement, even though, as I said, we don't go as far as someone wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e841	The processing of the paperwork on free legal aid is a very important matter. Steps are being taken in the right direction – SV believes that steps should be taken more clearly. As was said by the case-rapporteur here, many years have passed since these views were raised for the first time. It is time to become more concrete than the Committee has, if in most cases it is going in the right direction. It is a matter of such importance as whether the rule of law should be implemented crediblely, and it is not least whether or not we want to smooth out undesirable differences between people in society. It is a major welfare and rule of law problem that it is those with the lowest income who have both the greatest need for legal assistance and who suffer the greatest legal loss because they do not have the economy to pursue their affairs or fall under the law of free legal aid. The more a server, the more a legal entity uses to care for its interests. The smaller the server, the greater the need for legal aid and the less the legal system. In the SV’s view, it is necessary to raise the income limit and raise the rate for both cohabitants and couples, especially for families with children, and there is also a need to reduce the excess excess of the restrictions currently in force by the majority. But SV chooses in this context, like the majority, to focus on the areas where we believe it is the greatest unmet legal need, and it concerns the limitations of the scope of free legal assistance. As the representative Krohn Devold referred to instead, we believe that the principle must be that there should be a general access to free legal aid, and that there is a need for assistance that should be at the centre and decide whether to get help, not what legal provision you need in relation to. That is why we are promoting proposal No. 2, as we want to be able to provide free legal aid in all cases, and that is the need for help to decide whether to get help or not. The Committee is also in favour of an extension in important areas of matters where the public is a counterparty, and the Government says in its proposal that this should be subject to a future legislative review. The rapporteur called on the Government to be quick in this area. I can agree with that, and I might also have wanted the committee to say that in the vote – that is not very clear. It'll help if this is realized, but it's not enough in SV's opinion. Legal aid must be a basic right based on the need for assistance. It is also important to ensure free justice. Especially when it comes to issues where the public is a counterparty, SV believes that we should already state that there should be free legal advice and that it will be a very important step to take quickly. We also believe that it is already necessary to decide to set up several public law offices in the five largest cities in addition to what is in Oslo. The majority of the Committee agrees that these are good measures, and also say that they want to expand in these areas, but are little concrete about when to start and to what extent. There are major and important needs covered by such schemes that are not covered elsewhere, and it must therefore be a very urgent task to do so. And it's a little incomprehensible that you don't say more clearly that this should be established on a much larger scale than it is today. Then there are two things SV disagrees with the committee. One is about the collection of the excess. The Government and the Committee propose that the lawyer be added to bring the matter before those in need of assistance. It will mean that whoever will help, must have some kind of credit rating of his customer before he takes a case. This is most often about people with really bad advice, and then you risk that whoever needs the most help is not getting it because you can question the creditworthiness. That's why we want the collection of the excess to continue to be the way it is. Critical comments can be made on this, but in any case, we believe that the need for legal assistance will be better addressed as it is now organised. In addition, SV strongly disagrees with the fact that the Indre Finnmark Legal Aid Office will not be able to operate according to the principles it is now pursuing, namely to be able to provide free legal aid in all cases, but limited to the areas where the Legal Aid Act now applies. The reason for the establishment of this scheme was that there was a special need to be met. There is still a need for this, and there is no reason why this system should be reduced in the manner proposed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e862	The President assumes that Andersen's representative has taken up proposals No. 1-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e865	I have, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e870	The Committee's position shows that there is broad political consensus on the broad lines of future legal aid policy, and also on the broad economic framework for public aid. The Committee agrees that there is no need to increase income limits beyond indexation. On the other hand, there is also agreement on the need to extend the scope of the Legal Aid Act, inter alia. in child protection matters and in matters against the public. And it's probably just when it comes to expanding which issues you can get legal help in, that there's a need for change. The Committee also points to the importance of follow-up to the area of justice in the form of registration and statistics, and not least through regular evaluation of the proper functioning of the scheme. I agree with that, and here it is obvious a significant potential for improvement. In other words, as mentioned by the representative Karin Andersen, the proposed conversion of the system of self-employment implies that the proportion must be paid to the lawyer without public intervention. What is the advantage of this is that there is a great simplification in it and that the public should be able to save between 5 million. NOK 6 million. kr in what they use today for the clean calculation and recovery of excess. In my view, therefore, this proposal is overly mature, and I am pleased that the committee is joining it. On the other hand, it is well that when the public thinks it might be okay with a simplification, it happens that even the lawyers think so. It also supports the need highlighted by the Committee and in the Communication, namely the need for greater transparency and thereby also greater predictability of the law and regulations relating to free legal aid. There is no doubt that a good number of lawyers are going to use the code, which seems to be difficult to get into. It will therefore be an important guide for the department in the further work that we try to simplify as best we can, without jeopardising the fact that the content still needs to be good and correct. As part of that, I believe that the single-price financing scheme, which has proved successful, is a way of continuing simplification work, and I can inform you that the Ministry of Justice had already decided to carry out an overall review of the single-price scheme during this year before the Committee on Legal Aid in Civil and Criminal Matters. The fact that the Committee has now also pointed this out does not mean that it will be down-prioritized, rather on the contrary. The last thing I want to highlight in particular is the importance of seeing the public justice system in a broad perspective, because there are a number of public justice services in addition to the law on free legal assistance. Public law agencies, student action, consumer offices and patient representatives can be drawn up as examples. They provide comprehensive legal assistance in different areas. Public sector information and services also play an important role together with free legal assistance. In addition, the provision of legal aid must also be seen in the context of a comprehensive and varied private legal assistance offer in the form of inter alia: private legal expenses insurance and legal assistance provided by a number of private stakeholder organisations. While the law on free legal aid is an important pillar to ensure the necessary legal assistance, the need for free or reasonable legal assistance from the population is also met through other schemes, and sometimes I think this can be translated into public debate. In the further discussion on how to guarantee the public a real access to the courts, it is important that we extend the perspective to look at how we should contribute to providing assistance for legal aid and conflict resolution in other forms than the idea that the public should pay for the lawyer, because it is not necessarily always the way to get a lawyer involved is the way that best contributes to a good conflict resolution. I think it's an important work to continue looking at how we're going to ensure the population a real way to manage their conflicts, to see it as a broader issue where it's important to help the population solve their legal conflicts, and not just think about providing the population with cheap legal aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e890	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e893	I would like to comment on the proposals put forward by the Socialist Left. First, to proposal No. 1 on freedom of justice in matters where the public is a counterparty: both the notification and a unanimous committee actually go further, because we say that both the judicial board and perhaps also the free administration of proceedings should be able to give. That is why I feel confident that this has been taken care of, and I am afraid that the proposal, if it were to be adopted, will signal a narrowing in relation to what we have submitted. I therefore encourage the party to turn it into a transmission proposal. Proposal No. 2 I think is quite unexplained. It might look like it means we're not going to have an income test, and it might also look like we're no longer going to have priority issues. If that's the case, I disagree. As regards proposal No: 3, I agree with the intention, but I think it is wrong that we should be so specific and impose what kind of model it should be in the individual place, because it needs to be adapted to the needs and competences that I mentioned instead. Proposal No. 4 we disagree with. We believe the lawyer is almost to demand the self-interest, that's part of the lawyer's normal business. Proposal No. We're also completely in disagreement with 5 of them. We agree that such an office is needed in Finnmark because there are special circumstances; the law coverage is bad, and the Sami language is not as many lawyers as can, so offices are needed. However, that there should be no income testing and that many more issues should be addressed in Finnmark, for example: consumer matters, than what else in the country, we think is unreasonable. It is also unreasonable that a wealthy, wealthy man in Finnland should receive free legal aid at the expense of people with low incomes elsewhere in the country. Otherwise, I regret that the Christian People's Party representative initially perceived me ironizing, because I didn't mean to ironize. I meant to express joy at the fact that a message as a government of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Right withdraws in 1989, is presented again updated and slightly adjusted ten years later by a government of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, and that that message gets the support of a unanimous committee on the essential points. Free legal aid is an important system, it is a prerequisite for a well-functioning welfare society, and then I am glad that we have now reached such a degree of consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e910	To our suggestions: As regards proposal No: 1, it's completely impossible to see why it should be restrictive in relation to what the committee says, because it's one piece of it, which is clearly established – there's no constraint at all. But there is no problem with transmitting it, the point is to get it fixed, and get it already now, we think it is necessary. As regards proposal No: 2, it says ‘where it is not unreasonable for the public to cover legal expenses’. That means, of course, that there's going to be an income assessment here. But the point here is that there should be a general access to legal aid, and not limited to what legal provisions fall under the legal aid scheme. So that's what we think is a fundamentally different proposal; it's a further arrangement of course, but we think that's the principle that's right for the legal aid system, so we're promoting the proposal. Proposal No. 3 is quite correct in line with what the committee says, but much more concrete. We therefore believe that it is necessary to get it started as quickly as possible, that these sites point out quite naturally, and that they are well in line with the large legal aid needs identified during the processing of the notification. When it comes to the law office in Inner Finnmark, there are special needs there. I'm also working a lot on the word "dithering" for the time being, and there's a unanimous committee that points to the big problems of living in Inner Finnland, so it's in the middle of the target group for free legal aid. There is also a need for legal assistance where there is different from the restrictions now in the law, for example. very many cases are brought under the provisions of the Act of Purification and there is a particular case relating to them. I cannot see that there should be good political justification to remove this scheme where there is a great need for it. In the SV's view, there is a greater need to extend the scheme everywhere, based on the general proposal we have in paragraph 1. 2nd@item: inlistbox Therefore, this mistake is made for us, especially because it is given without justification and without consultation for them. As far as I can see, it comes as a surprise to those who operate this system. So for the collection of proportion. The Minister of Justice said this is to save the public money. Yeah, I think that's right. SV is more afraid that it should lead to that those who need help do not get it, because the lawyer does not find the person to be creditworthy. The risk of that, as far as I can see, is not at all assessed in the message, and it worries us very much. We're more concerned with the fact that those in need of legal aid get it than the rich state saves $5 million. kr – there is no particularly important point. So to what has been said about student law offices. We're dividing our points of view here. We have also seen that it has been a matter of students working a year of duty in public law offices, and we believe that this was a good arrangement for realising the legal status of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e927	The President will then only confirm that proposal No. 1 has been converted into a transmission proposal, while proposals Nos. 2 to 5 are maintained. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e930	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e935	When I take the floor again, it is precisely with the background of the proposals put forward by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. We in the centre can very much subscribe to the comments made by the rapporteur on these proposals. However, the proposal that we are somewhat uncertain about is proposal No. 3, where the government is asked to set up a pilot scheme in these defined cities. What's a problem for us is that we don't have exactly what this will cost, and what kind of scale it will have. We agree with what we think is the intention of this proposal, and we would like to think of supporting the intention, but we do not want to resort to a call or an order to the Government to do it exactly like that. We would therefore ask the representative, Mr Andersen, to reword this, possibly to make it a transmission proposal with a request to the Government to assess it. If not, we will have to vote against it, even if we agree with the very intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e942	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e945	It is difficult for SV to agree that we should submit this proposal. This will mean exactly what the Committee has said, because they have also said that they want enlargement. They've been a little bit specific about it. And when the representative Marthinsen is concerned about the economy, it would have been better, at least in the SV's view, to extend the legal aid office scheme than to increase the legal fees in the scheme. It's a more reasonable system, so you have the opportunity to limit expenditure in a different way than you have in the other system. And you get more legal aid for the money, for these are schemes that are aimed at it in their being. I therefore feel that it is difficult to reverse this proposal, because it is a concrete start-up shot to set in motion the experimental mechanisms that the whole committee says are necessary. Our point is that this must happen quickly and that it is in this direction that enlargement must happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e952	I would like to take this opportunity to make the explanation of vote now, as we are doing it. I see that proposal No. 1 has been converted into a transmission proposal. That's good. The right will vote against the other proposals, the proposals No. 2, 3, 4 and 5, in line with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e957	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3259]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e965	We're going to vote on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e972	During the debate, the representative Steinar Bastesen put forward three proposals, which were distributed to the representatives' seats in the Chamber. That will give rise to explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e977	A brief explanation of vote on the Steinar Bastesen proposals: As regards proposal No: One, I will refer to the debate and what the Council of State said there. Of course, the position we are adopting today is part of the work on the Coast Guard Plan. The councils said: ‘The government will go through carefully the proposed boundaries of the draft North Sea Coast Guard Plan in order to assess the reduction of the sea areas proposed for protection.’ Consequently, I recommend that the Labour Party Group vote against the proposal No. One, two, three. But I would recommend Steinar Bastisen to make proposal no. 1 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e989	I would recommend the representatives of the Progress Party to support the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3, from the representative Steinar Bastisen in respect of case No. 1– provided they are maintained – and the Right’s proposal in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e994	Steinar Bastesen – to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e997	With regard to proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 3, there are three different suggestions. It is important that there be a separate vote on the three proposals, because there may be alternating support. As regards proposal No: 1 and what was said by the Council of State, the Council of State has not said anything other than what is in the position. My trust in the environmental managers, who are unable to kill four wolves, is so low that I maintain the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e1004	The President will recall that the explanation of vote is an explanation of vote! Then the President believes that the safest thing is that we are going to start voting! Unless it should be so that someone wants to vote separately on the proposals No. One, two and three from Steinar Bastesen, will propose that the President vote collectively on the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e1011	I'm asking for separate voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e1016	Sir. Sahl is asking for separate voting. Then the President – with the approval of the Chamber – will proceed like this. There is a vote on proposal No. One from Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «The Grand Government requests that before the adoption of the Northland and Troms Coastal Protection Plan by a Royal Resolution, it be recast in line with the Innst. [[1999 - 2000]] S. No 168 and reconsulted.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e1034	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks that before the adoption of the coastal protection plans, a legal assessment of independent law experts on the legal basis for the application of the Law on Nature Conservation in the field of marine protection shall be drawn up.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e1048	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking that future proposals for protected areas, landscape areas and national parks should not use preliminary external planning limits as protection limits before the adoption of the plans.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e1074	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, transmitted from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 11 May 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for amendments to the Law on Motor Travel in Outland, which confers jurisdiction on each municipality by regulation to establish marked loops for motorcycling and which open the way for motorcycling on forest roads, and on watercourses where motor boating is permitted.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e1106	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented five proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 1 has been converted into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for amendments to the Free Legal Assistance Act in order to provide free legal advice in cases where the public is a counterparty.’ The proposal is proposed to be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the law on free legal aid so that legal aid can be provided in all cases where it is necessary and where it is not unreasonable for the government to cover legal aid.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a pilot scheme with public law offices following the model of the Office for Legal Assistance in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger, Kristiansand and Tromsø. The test period should be set at five years and the project should then be evaluated for further operations.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the maintenance of the system of collection of equity through the Central Collection by the State.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Indre Finnmark Legal Aid Office continues to operate according to the current model, with the continued possibility of providing free legal aid to all.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25.ana.ud1592e1158	Unit not available.
