ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e43	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Kristian Asdahl is dead, almost 80 years old. Kristian Asdahl was born on April 8, 1920 in Nes, Akershus. He was a nobleman, but chose to leave the right of nobility to a younger brother. Education was interrupted by the war, but after active domestic efforts and graduated artium he became a civil economist from the Copenhagen School of Business in 1949. Kristian Asdahl became early politically active. Already in 1946 he became a member of the board of Akershus Right, a position he held until 1961 – the last years as chairman. He was vice president of the Young Right League, and from 1954 to 1961 he was a member of the Right National Government. In Bærum Right main board he took part until the last. Kristian Asdahl was first elected to Stortinget in 1953 as the representative of Akershu County. He was out of the Storting in the period 1958-61, but came back after the election in 1961, and stayed until 1969. In the first period, Asdahl was a member of the Protocol Committee, while for the last eight years he was a member of the then Forest, Watercourse and Industrial Committee. This was the completely natural location of a representative with Kristian Asdahl's burning commitment to work and business. In the last period at Stortinget, he was a member of the Right Group Board. Kristian Asdahl was for many years associated with Staal A/S in several leading positions. After leaving Stortinget in 1969, Asdahl engaged in a wide range of ventures as an adviser and board member. An estimated 60 different companies benefited from Asdahl's insight and commitment. Kristian Asdahl was a member of the Norwegian Bank's board of directors for a total of 26 years, of which 19 years as chairman. In 1997, Asdahl was awarded the King’s Gold Medal of Merit for extensive social work. Kristian Asdahl drew attention to national policies, and not just as a member of the Industry Committee when dealing with major industrial policy issues such as: The Kings Bay case in 1963. Kristian Asdahl also played a crucial role in the right-wing ageing group's choice between Bent Røiseland and Per Borten as Prime Minister after the election in 1965. Kristian Asdahl was always clear on the subject, at the same time he had cooperation in form. A broad-based civil cooperation was a matter of great concern to Asdahl, and for which he spoke hotly, long after he ended up in Stortinget. Equally strong was his ability to cooperate when it came to the relationship with big-time colleagues across all party boundaries. There are many who will gratefully remember Kristian Asdahl as a gentleman of the old school. We remember Kristian Asdahl with deep respect and bring peace to his memory. The stuttering representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e66	They called for alternates, for Buskerud County Hallgrim Berg and for Troms County Elisabeth Aspaker, have taken the seat. Representative Carl. I. Hagen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e77	I allow myself to come forward with a proposal for a new principle for the integration of immigrants as well as legal rules so as not to allow the presentation of prayers through the making of mosques.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e82	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e94	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 60 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 35 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Falch 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e105	The basis for the Stortingen debate today is the Prime Minister’s presentation to the Stortingen on 21 December 1999 on the basis of which Telenor AS and Telia AB are to be discontinued. The Prime Minister's statement is an orderly review of the main features of the merger process, but, as I read it, a unilateral defense of the Government's conduct in the merger process and of the selection of information that the Storting has received, without realizing that something could have been done differently. Today, the Stortinget is dealing with a position from the Committee on Transport, where the majority criticises the government's action in several areas, a criticism that the press has rightly referred to as serious and strong. This forms a completely different picture of the matter than what the Prime Minister presented in December. The right assumes that the Government accepts the content of the criticism, the basis on which the criticism is based, and that in the future the Stortinge will receive information on counter-arguments and problematisations. In dealing with this matter, the size has laid down a clear standard for which information the size requires, in particular that counter-arguments and problems with the solutions adopted should be clearly identified. The merger of Telenor and Telia was a project that could have provided significant economic and industrial synergies. Such a merger could have provided Norway and Sweden with a good starting point in the fastest growing industry in the world. There is therefore an overall committee, with the exception of SV, which expresses disappointment that this could not be implemented. An overall committee is also behind the setting related to the course of events. The Committee points out that the trigger for the breach was the failure of the Swedish Government to instruct its board members at the general meeting according to the Norwegian view of the shareholder agreement. The Committee shall be divided into a majority, composed of the Workers' Party, Right and Left, and a minority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Left, in view of the underlying problems, the vulnerability of the solutions adopted, and in particular in view of whether these issues were adequately highlighted by the Government of St.prp. No 58 for 1998-99 or otherwise. It is a long and secure parliamentary practice that the Government has an obligation to provide information to the Stortinget. In order to take decisions on laws, appropriations and other matters, the Storting is dependent on correct and complementary information provided by the government and the administration. The majority mentions several examples of the view the Storting has had on the disclosure obligation. In practice, there have been several standards on the content of the obligation to provide information. It is quite clear that when the Stortinget is first informed by the Government, it is a requirement that what is presented is true, complete and comprehensive. It is the Storting itself that has the decisive decision whether these conditions are met. In this context, I would like to stress that it is essential that the information provided is balanced and nuanced, and that there should be counter-arguments against and weaknesses in the solutions adopted. The proposition stated that the board of directors of the new company should decide on the location of the management of the business areas. According to the Government, this decision was to be subject to the special voting rules established in the shareholder agreement, i.e. at least one shareholder representative of each country had to agree to the decision. At the open hearing on 18 January 2000, the Council of State, Mr Færvoll, stated that no reservations had been made in the proposal on those voting rights rules. However, a note from Bugge, Arentz-Hansen & Rasmussen, of 15 March 1999 to the Department shows that there were practical and legal problems in making the voting rules of the Board effective. The note concludes that it was not possible to attach a provision as mentioned above. In addition, the note states: ‘This means that a majority of the Governing Board may be held in favour of a decision referred to above and that this majority does not include a member of the Governing Board nominated by the Norwegian State. This will be a valid decision of the company.’;» During the hearing, the Council of State, Mr Færvoll, said: ‘This was not a problem, and therefore there is no reference to it any particular place.’ The majority note that the Government considers that the Government has found a solution to the problem in terms of what is enshrined in the shareholder agreement. During the hearing, the Council of State stated that it was the shareholder agreement to ensure the voting rights rules, despite the fact that the agreement clearly states that the provision should be implemented in the statutes. The Ministry has explained how the provision is to be understood. However, the majority will conclude that, in order to understand the provision, it was absolutely necessary to know the assumptions. The majority cannot see that the proposition provides information on how this provision should be understood or on how the parties intended to have secured a basis for a balanced solution, inter alia. the important localisation issues. The majority therefore consider that these conditions are not adequately illuminated in the proposition. The fact that the Council of State stated that the problem had been resolved becomes even more striking when one knows that the department asked for a new note from the law firm BA-HR of 26 August 1999 related to the location decisions on the board. This note reiterated that majority decisions on the board would be valid decisions even if they would lead to decisions being adopted contrary to the provisions of the shareholder agreement. Furthermore, in the note from the law firm BA-HR on 26 August, the new proposal for measures to ensure the implementation of the contract, including: establishing routine contact between owners. If the chosen solution as described in St.prp. No 58 had taken account of the problems, there should have been no need for further measures. The majority refers to a legal consideration of Professor Dr. Juris Tore Bräthen, where it is just shown that there had been alternative ways of complying with the special voting rules in the statutes. The majority note that there may have been other views from the Government that have justified the choice of solution, but believe equally fully that as long as there were alternative procedures, a deepening of this choice should be given in St.prp. No 58. Without deciding on the solution chosen, the majority states that it would be right to better inform about this solution, the problems encountered in the preparation process, and the weaknesses of this solution. It is critical that it was not done. The main problem was that the parties chose a mechanism that only ensured that none of the parties had a decision against them. It provided no solution to the underlying problems, and it was not robust enough to withstand the conflict that arose. The majority, based on the Council of State answers during the consultation, understood that the issue of localisation issues, and perhaps especially the location of the mobile device, was an important topic during the contractual negotiations. The majority point out that these problems in the proposition were described as follows: «At this stage, it is not appropriate to place the management functions in the individual business lines.» It is obvious that the location of business areas — and especially the mobile device — was much more difficult than most people put in the term ‘not appropriate’. The information currently available makes it possible to conclude that the contradictions in this area were considerable. In addition, the parties considered that the mobile device was so strategically important that none of them were willing to accept the addition of this device to the neighbouring country. And for my own part, I'm adding: then you can ask yourself if it makes sense to move on with the contraction. In any case, the Council of State must have known how problematic this question could be. The majority therefore believe that it is critical that these conditions were not problematised in the proposition. Why the counter-conceptions were not included, the Ministry justified in reply to question 20 to the Committee that the trust relationship with the Swedish owners would be weakened by the fact that the Stortinget was briefed on how the Norwegian negotiators assessed the solutions that the parties had come up with. The majority states that the Council of State cannot withhold the necessary information from the Storting on the basis of commercial considerations. If the Council of State needed to provide information on matters in secret, it is fully possible to inform the Committee or the Storting under the obligation of professional secrecy. The Governing Council considers that the issues of voting rights in the Governing Board had been addressed. But the majority point out that there were parties in this Chamber who were opponents of the merger, and who thus had the right to know this information, even though it should have strengthened the arguments against the solution chosen by the Government. According to the Prime Minister’s statement, the exchange of letters between the Norwegian Minister of Transport and the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs had ensured that the Swedish had the same general view of the validity of the agreement. The majority cannot see that the exchange of letters indicates that the Norwegian interpretation of the voting rules applies. It is also confirmed in response No. 27 from the Ministry that it was only the general understanding of the agreement that had been agreed through the exchange of letters. In this context, the majority will point to the specific problems associated with the issue of localisation, and the particular care required. The majority find it critical that the Council of State had not clarified the uncertainty relating to the interpretation of the voting rules in more detail, when it was aware of the problems associated with the Governing Council decisions. The problem of the merger of Telenor and Telia as whole state companies should have taught us that it is now important to share Telenor. Right is pleased that a majority in the vote says just that. The right also wants to bring together state ownership in one of the departments, in order to ensure and build a professional ownership environment capable of bringing industrial, economic and legal competence to the enterprise. That is what is proposed in the vote on the motion for a resolution. The gap between Telia and Telenor has resulted in a loss of DKK billion in synergistic effects, but possibly the loss through the publicity given to Norway by foreign media as a business nation is much greater. But it's a different story, today it's about the relationship between government and greatness. I put forward the Right proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e200	Oddvard Nilsen has put forward the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e207	In this case, the right has held a rather high profile – ‘critical’ is well the word they have used several times. Among other things, the representative Nilsen said that it was ‘critical’ by the Council of State – and it must well be to keep a very high profile. But the representative of Nilsen can then elaborate a little more on what he thinks, whether there was a lack of willingness in the Swedish government to keep the agreement. Or will the representative of Nilsen hold the Norwegian Government entirely responsible for the breach of this agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e214	First of all, let's put one thing right: it's not the Right that has made that criticism, it's actually a majority in this room. And that's much more important. With regard to the very reason attached to the Swedish lack of willingness to instruct their board members, I said that in my post – I said that on the basis of the Norwegian interpretation, that was the reason. But this case is not about that, it's about whether there was any occasion for the Storting to discuss the problems that the solution posed, precisely on the basis of what I also said, that there were actually parties in this room who opposed the merger. Of course, they have a right to information, even if it would go beyond the solution that the government had chosen. That's what this is all about. The question is whether the Storting has received enough and correct information. The word ‘critical’, referred to here, has been used in the areas where the majority of the Committee considers that the information has not been good enough, not precise enough and not comprehensive enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e221	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e224	The merger of Telenor and Telia was one of the largest and most interesting industrial projects in the Nordic region throughout the post-war period. The new company had the prerequisites for further development as a leading provider of information and communication services in Northern Europe. The company had the prerequisites to become a leading global player in areas where the company had or could develop competitive advantages, such as mobile communications, satellite communications and the Internet. A merged company would provide a significantly stronger business base than the individual companies, and a size and competitiveness that would strengthen the basis for continuing to lead in technological development. It would be an advantage for the customers. It would be an advantage for technology development and innovation. There would be an advantage to the value creation in Norway. It didn't work that way. The collapse of cooperation greatly reduced these possibilities. It is difficult to measure how much economic value was lost, but it is reasonable to estimate that opportunities in the order of 30-40 billion kroner were lost through the chaos that we witnessed at the beginning of December. The former Chairman of the Board of Directors Ole Lund expressed concerns that the dispute could also damage the general reputation of the Norwegian stock market abroad. Foreign investors can believe that Norway is a madhouse, said Lund. The behaviour of the Swedish owner cannot be defended in any way. However, it is a fundamental problem that the Government left legal openings fully exploited by the Swedes, openings with which the Stortinget was not made known at any time. It was a basic premise for cooperation that there were two equivalent parties that were to be merged. The merger and management of the new company should be based on equal influence by the parties. And in order to avoid the interests of one country being able to outrun the other, it was stated in the shareholder agreement that some particularly important provisions could only be made if at least one member of the board proposed by each of the owners voted in favour. The majority had full confidence – and no reason to doubt – that this was clearly explained. In the merger negotiations, there was one issue that proved particularly difficult, the question of the location of management for each of the business lines. It was a matter of particular importance both for the two countries and for those working in the company. The owners couldn't agree. The problem was pushed over to the company's board of directors. This was produced as completely unproblematic in comparison to Stortinget. It was described by the Government as a question of what was appropriate. In the submission to Stortinget, the Government states: «At this stage, it is not appropriate to place management functions in the individual business lines.» Substantial questions may be asked about this manufacturing process. Not in one word was it briefed on underlying problems. On the contrary, the Government stated unambiguously and without any reservation: ‘The board of directors of the new company will decide at a later stage how to locate the management of its business lines. The decision shall be subject to the special voting rights rules established in the shareholder agreement, i.e. at least one shareholder-elected representative from each country must agree to the decision.’;» But at this point in time, the government knew that the board could make valid corporate decisions contrary to the shareholder agreement, contrary to the voting rules that the Government highlighted for the Stortinget. In a note from the Legal Advisers of the Government, Bugge, Arentz-Hansen and Rasmussen, of 15 March, it states: ‘... you can risk having a majority of the board of directors for a decision mentioned above and that this majority does not include a member of the board nominated by the Norwegian State. This will be a valid decision of the company.’;» The government found no reason to inform Stortinget that what was produced as a basic security to safeguard Norwegian interests could be set aside by the board. The Board of Directors is not bound by the shareholder agreement. The Governing Board's guidelines are drawn up in the statutes. But the government was also aware that the voting rules of the shareholder agreement had such a design that they could not be included in the statutes under Swedish law. Nor did the Government find reason to orientate the Storing. In the submission to the Stortinget, the statutes are not mentioned in one word, nor is the relationship between the shareholder agreement and the statutes. So clearly the government does not think it was necessary because the shareholder agreement was attached in full text, and it had to be read and understood. Yes, Stortinget read the agreement. And what does that say? Indeed, the parties ‘must ensure that the provisions of this Agreement are implemented in the Statutes’. This is the only review available on the relationship between the shareholder agreement and the statutes. But it is, of course, not possible to understand from this reference that some of the most important and most sensitive parts of the shareholder agreement were not lawful to ‘implement’ in the statutes. What the government also knew was that the intention in the voting rules – that the Swedish owner could not use the chairman’s double voice to outrun Norwegian interests – was fully possible to include in the statutes. It could be stated in the Statute that certain decisions had to be adopted by both the Chairman and Vice-Chair of the Board in order to be valid, or that prior consent was required from the owners, or that certain questions had to be settled by the General Assembly. And the government had spent some of the 18 million. kr as the Stortinget granted to ensure the preparation of the case, to do more than to ask five yes/no questions to a single Swedish law firm, one might also know that a qualified majority could be included and possibly also the Swedish law’s specific rules on delegation in the event of elections. The government chose not to include such provisions in the statutes. In a legal opinion of the Committee, Professor Dr. Juris states. Tore Bråthen: ‘Hadden Newtel AS’ – i.e. the company – ‘had provisions on the statutes of the board of directors and vice-chairmen, delegation or separate majority requirements..., would not have taken a decision on the location of the mobile device under otherwise equal conditions to those of the board of directors on 8 December 1999.’ The question has not been discussed at all in the submission to the Stortinget. In his statement, the Prime Minister said that ‘it is my clear assessment that it was neither necessary nor appropriate to lay down the rules on voting rights’. It is a bastant conclusion in a case where there was just a lack of clear voting rules that enabled the director to trigger the collapse. Then, in consultation with the Committee, the Council of State states that the reason why the Government has failed to inform the Storting about these issues is that they did not represent any problem, the challenge had been resolved, among other things. through the right of instruction in the shareholder agreement. But first, the government has not made the Storting aware that there were some issues related to the voting rules. Much less has the government made the Storting aware that it was supposed to have worked through the issues. Consequently, the solutions have not been discussed in one word either. It must be allowed to remind you that this case concerns values in Norwegian hands corresponding to between 150 and 200 billion kroner. These are values for Norway alone that are twice the value of Statoil! Then the Council of State claimed that the problems had been solved. Why, then, did the Department ask for a new review from its legal advisers? In a note of 26 August, BA-HR reiterates the issue, as the representative Oddvard Nilsen did. The advisers promote different solutions to what the Council of State said was settled before the case was submitted in April. And they describe a situation that is exactly as it occurred at the board meeting on 8 December, where the Swedish chairman used his double voice to outdo Norwegian interests, where there were no rules in the company's statutes on specific voting rules, and where the decision was therefore a valid company decision. There is no doubt whatsoever that the owners were bound by the shareholder agreement. One remaining issue was whether the owners agreed to the interpretation of what was in it. Here are the different statements. From the Norwegian side, we use the government's understanding. But in a matter of such enormous dimensions, it is reasonable to ask why the Government had not secured a clear consensus on this point. Then you have an exchange of letters. The government subsequently presents it as a clearing house. Where in the world does the Swedish Minister of Industry write that he agrees with the Norwegian Government's understanding of the shareholder agreement? He writes that the agreements concluded are to be taken into account, he writes that Swedish company law should be taken into account, but he never elaborates on how the rules should be understood. And the Norwegian Council of State answers that he agrees. The Council of State does not ask for any unambiguous confirmation of a common understanding of the voting rules – despite the tumults. With so many conflicts and with so many pitfalls it seems obvious that the owners had to have a close follow-up of ownership. The government’s legal advisers had also pointed out that the gaps in the shareholder agreement required specific follow-up measures. In notes dated 26 August BA-HR wrote: ‘The best way to prevent a potential problem is to establish routines from the day that aim to avoid the problem being put to the fore.’ But the problem was put on the verge. And there can be significant questions about whether the follow-up of ownership was good enough. But above all, it is becoming increasingly clear that it was very unfortunate to push the difficulties with the location of the business areas ahead. This question should have been clarified by the owners. Significant issues may also be raised in the Government’s strategy or lack of strategy in the final phase. It seems that the Nordics in the management and board of the company had recognised that the distance between the Swedish and Norwegian interests was so great that the company had hardly any future. It made a strong impression on us all when the company's solid Norwegian Vice President Arnfinn Hofstad in a press conference on 14 December said: ‘If we do not now require the dissolution of the merger, we may sit with the beard in the mailbox.’ Already on 10 December, the Government received a unanimous advice from the Norwegian board members of the company to seek, in principle, to obtain a voluntary fission. The government chose not to follow that advice. To the last work of the Government to continue the company. To achieve that, the Government was also open to replace the management of the company. So the government chose a different strategy from that of the Norwegian board members, to the extent that the government had a strategy at all. The majority of the Committee on Transport – and the majority of the majority in the UK – strongly criticise the government’s handling of this matter: The majority sees it critical that the parties had not unambiguously clarified the interpretation of the voting rules in the shareholder agreement. The majority sees it critical that Stortinget was not made aware that the board could make decisions contrary to the shareholder agreement. The majority sees it critical that the Stortinget was not made aware that the special voting rules of the shareholder agreement could not be included in the statutes. The size goes so far as to say that the case has not been adequately clarified in relation to the relationship between the shareholder agreement and the statutes. The majority argues that Stortinget should have been informed of how the parties intended to ensure a balanced solution and of weaknesses in the rules adopted. The majority sees it critical that the government did not explain the problems that lay ahead of the board's handling of the localization issues. The size is critical that the problems that have repeatedly arisen in the merger process and the lack of trust between the parties that must have clearly marked the process have not been brought to the attention of the Stortingen in the case or in any other way. This is a criticism which, in its content, in its strength and extent, contrasts sharply with the Prime Minister's presentation before Christmas, where there was a total absence of self-criticism. The same was true of the Council of State during the hearing of the Committee on Transport. The Prime Minister's statement could hardly be understood as different from the fact that the Government had not made any mistakes. The size has concluded differently. The Storting raised criticism of the Government both for the lack of information to Stortinget and for the lack of follow-up to the Norwegian ownership of the company. We are now past the stage we had before Christmas, when, according to TV2, the prime minister at his press conference “refused all critical questions about the basic work of the agreement had been too bad”, and where, according to the newspaper, the Prime Minister stated: ‘I have nothing to reproach the Minister for Transport for.’ We are past the stage at which the Prime Minister presents it as if the Government has not acted critically. The overthrow believes the government's handling is critical. It is a criticism that the Prime Minister must deal with. I have noticed that the Prime Minister, after the Committee's suspension was given, has stated that he takes the criticism of 'intelligence'. However, there is no clarification. On the part of the Labour Party, we expect the Prime Minister in today's debate to make it clear. that he understands the criticism expressed that he accepts the criticism that he takes the criticism that the Government will base the Storting's understanding of the relationship between magnificence and government
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e369	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e372	The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen showed in his contribution to the shareholder agreement and the statutes and their understanding. He pointed out that the agreement and the statutes could not pre-determine the location of the head office for the business lines. That's right. But does the representative Schjött-Pedersen believe that a political agreement should assume that the counterparty is a cellar ring and therefore must take account of the fact that one is not being tricked? And wasn't Schjøtt-Pedersen aware in advance that a government can make decisions across agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e379	It is not natural to assume that a party to the agreement acts as ‘chain rings’, as the representative of Stensaker says. But in a case involving values in the range between 400 and 500 billion kroner, and where the Norwegian interests alone represent values that correspond approximately twice the value of Statoil, it would not have been directly unwise to secure. Secondly, this matter does not concern itself primarily with that question. This matter is first of all whether the Government has provided the Storting with all the information that would be useful for the Storing to have during the trial – a large majority of the Storing has raised criticism of the Government that it should have done more – and it is about the follow-up of ownership by the Government, its position, where a large majority of the Storing also expresses criticism. So, the representative, Stensaker, did the representative not know about the relationship between the board and the shareholder agreement? Let me stress that it is so that the government is made aware of that issue in notes from BA-HR on March 15. Obviously, the representatives of the Government's legal adviser have seen a need to make the Government particularly aware of the relationship. I record that the government has not seen the same need to make Stortinget pay particular attention to the relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e389	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e392	The matter we are dealing with now reminds me of a poster I saw a few years ago, as it was popular with powerful stereo amplifiers. The poster showed a person with a cloud of wet daughters out of each ear, and the caption read: ‘How much Watt in your ears do you really need?’ After having read carefully the history and the Prime Minister's statement to the Stortinget on 21 December 1999 on the basis of which Telenor AS and Telia AB are to be interrupted and the record of the open hearing, I am left with the question: how much paper do the depositors really need? Would this case have another outcome if Stortinget had got the whole meter high paper pile to the State Council Fjærvoll? The answer must be no. I cannot see from the Prime Minister's statement or the open hearing that the Prime Minister or the Council of State, Fjærvoll, has misinformed the Stortinget, or that the Government has breached its information obligation. The Progress Party points out that, after the open consultation, the Transport Committee designed 33 questions to the Council of State, and I cannot see that the answers contain anything new that is relevant to the outcome of the case. The essence of the matter is that the Board of Directors could take valid decisions even if they were contrary to the voting rules of the shareholder agreement because those rules could not be laid down. The Progress Party believes that the decision on the location of the mobile device could have been taken in the same way as it was, even if the entire shareholder agreement had been included in the statutes. There can be no surprise to the Stortinget that the Board of Directors of a public limited liability company can legally take decisions which are valid under company law, even if they are contrary to the agreements and wishes of the owners. As indicated in the hearing, the Norwegian Government has considered that they had secured themselves through the shareholder agreement, which would prevent such situations as the one that occurred. Among other things, governments were required to instruct their board members. The Progress Party considers that this relationship was obvious to those who read the entire proposal and the annexes, since it is clear that the provisions of the shareholder agreement and compliance with the rules on voting rights were respected by the board. The fact that the governing decisions were legally lawful under company law and under the statutes results from normal legal understanding, on the basis of which the legislators are in possession. The Progress Party also considers that the proposition, annexed to it, showed that it was the provisions of the Shareholder Agreement and that it was respected that was decisive, rather than the technical legal. When it is known in retrospect that the Swedish government did not comply with its obligations under the shareholder agreement, and that instructions to deal with the agreement were not given from the Swedish side to the Swedish board members, it seems wise to criticise the council. The Progress Party refers to the Swedish claim that the ‘relocalisation’ of the business units did not mean the first location within the new company and was therefore not subject to the requirement that at least one member from each country had to vote in favour. The Progress Party believes that it was a procurator's club from the Swedish side. They knew very well what ‘relocalization’ meant and why it was there. As regards the negotiated agreement submitted to the Stortinget, it is clear that it could not be amended by the Stortinget, only to be concluded or rejected. It is also the case that, after the new company was established by signing the shareholder agreement, it was a shareholder-elected professional board that was to run the company together with the management, in line with the agreements concluded and applicable law. The Progress Party will conclude that the merger was stopped because the Swedish Government, with Prime Minister Göran Persson at the head, lacked the necessary honesty and honesty that should be expected from a government in respect of compliance with agreements. Maintaining agreements is a moral, but also a legal, basic rule for ensuring stable relationships between people, built around a common European ideal. It turns out that it works, even though the courts sometimes have to be connected to solve problems. It seems to me that parts of the opposition at Stortinget initially believe that all the counterparties to the agreement are cellar rings, so that a normal contract text must close all the unfair dirtholes. This would lead to agreements on hundreds of pages with small letters on the back and lots of additional attachments. This is quite distant from both Norwegian and Swedish traditions. The willingness to comply with a political agreement between countries can never be ensured in this way, and for a political agreement this procedure is useless. The Telia-Telenor Agreement was a political agreement between the Norwegian and Swedish Governments. Although it was wrapped in a form of company law, it was a political agreement aimed at safeguarding vital national interests. Therefore, it is not right for the Storting to focus on the existence of unfair loopholes in the agreement. It is noteworthy that some politicians in the Grand Duchy will not deal with the agreement as it was well known, namely a political agreement. The core of the criticism against Minister of Transport Færvoll is that he did not make the dirtholes visible to the Storting, even though he knew about them. But the Minister of Transport had signed a normal and easy-to-understand agreement with the Swedes. It was not the text of the agreement that was the problem. The problem was that the two governments had agreed on an unrealistic agreement. It took the power of action from the company's management and made it impossible to run an efficient store. To avoid complying with a hopeless, but crystal clear agreement, the Swedish government used a purely procurator's fist. Minister of Economic Affairs Björn Rosengren felt that he had no responsibility for the Swedish members of the board that he had appointed in the pact with the shareholder agreement he had personally signed. Although it was a simple trick, there was nothing but a message that there was no longer any political will in Sweden to implement the agreement. Thus a political problem arose, which Færvoll and Rosengren then solved by stopping the whole merger. So now there are big-time politicians and there are doubts about the idea that the matter is about law and company law. They doubt the view that the business lawyers could have saved the agreement only all the holes had been sealed. But the worst thing is that they doubt the view that the normal, legitimate and only sound is to make agreements that take into account all conceivable and unmistakable opportunities, including aggravation and procuratorialism. I have, in my post, deliberately not affected the individual legal documents that are referred to in the setting, but concentrate on the principal aspects of the case. You should not shoot at the Norwegian pianist, he stopped playing as the opponent would not follow the notes. If you want to hang a bell on the cat, at least you have to pick the right cat. The Progress Party believes that the idea of merging the two companies was initially good and would provide synergies for both countries. That's why it's a shame that the deal ended on the wrong foot. What remains is the distribution of direct merger costs of several hundred million dollars between Telenor and Telia, and how Norway and Sweden will solve the complex tax issues. The representative, Oddvard Nilsen, presented a proposal from the Right in the configuration. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Progress Party is also involved in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e424	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e427	The Progress Party is the only supporter of the Government Party in this matter. Therefore – and only therefore – it is interesting to listen to their arguments. When I hear the posts and read the settings, I am in doubt that they have understood what the matter is about. This is not the end of a national struggle, in which you have to judge which of the Nordics and Swedes are cellar rings or have used procurator's rod. Nor is this, as the representative Steinsaker said, a question of a majority doubting that this is about law. This is not jus, this is about the relationship between big business and government. If I'm going to move into something that at least borders on the legal, I'm going to say it's a constitutional question. In this way, the members of the Progress Party, together with the government parties on page 11 of the printed statement, have a wording that I would like to quote: ‘In such cases, it is not possible for the Storting to change the contract; the Storing only has the opportunity to sign the contract or to reject it. If the Storting had had the opportunity to make changes to the agreement, as the Storting has as legislator and in a number of other cases, there would also be a broader and more complete description of each wording in the contract text.» This implies that the Contracting Party is of the opinion that, in the course of a contract procedure, which concerns a very large amount in this case, a different requirement shall be imposed on the Government's disclosure obligations vis-à-vis the Stortinget. I would like to ask the representative Steinsaker where in the history of the Storting he finds evidence of this – or in the history of parliamentarianism, we would rather say – and whether the Progress Party of its long-standing leader, the representative Hagen, has ever previously prejudiced such a view in other and similar matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e437	The representative Per-Kristian Foss has made us the government spokespersons. All right, but that's not what this is about, it's really about how much information you need, and what you know and don't know. Much of what has come to light in the past was known in advance. It's about the ratio of magnification to government, that's right. However, it is not possible in agreements to ensure that a board of directors cannot override the agreements that have been concluded. It is a well-known system of Norwegian case law and contractual works that agreements and statutes must necessarily be separate, but it must also be noted that when two States conclude an agreement, it is based on the assumption that each State will comply with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e444	I've been meaning to find out that the Progress Party is usually a bit concerned that the Government informs the Storting about what the Storting needs to know. Now I heard that Christopher Stensaker said that this would not have led to any decision other than the decision that was made. Can we then expect in the future that if the Progress Party is alone in the Chamber and is dissatisfied with the information they have received from the Government, they will not take it up and not criticize it, because there will not be any other decision anyway because the Progress Party is alone? In SV, which stood alone last June, we see that a good part of the information we have received in retrospect would have strengthened our justification for our position and our reasoning. Did we not then have the right to that information from the Government, or has the Progress Party established a new practice that they intend to follow in similar matters when they stand alone in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e451	The representative, Inge Myrvoll, said that we in the Progress Party are busy getting information. Yes, we are. But the question is how much information you need, and how hard you have to acquire information, if you can't get to the core of the question. We think it's okay with information, but we've actually been able to read this case in a way that makes us find out that we had enough information. SV’s argument is that the Swedes have not done anything wrong, but the problem lies here, and that SV has not received the necessary information to make the right decisions. I believe that information has been provided. The fact that you cannot acquire that information is another matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e456	I'm going to leave the little theory that it's not possible to govern the owners, whether it's through shareholder agreements or statutes. There is a derailment in this debate on information obligations and the relationship between corruption and government. My question simply goes to the Progress Party. Here, the Progress Party has a rather long history, because I think that party leader Carl I. Hagen has on several occasions been concerned about this in a very insightful way. But right now, I think that the suspension is making a difference, namely to describe an agreement – because it is only an agreement to which the Stortinge may say yes or no, the requirement for information should be lower than in, as it is called, all other matters. That's a strange reasoning. In an agreement that, on behalf of the nation, may amount to billions of dollars in value, the Storting shall have less requirements for full and complete information, fore and counter performances, than for example. in a budget case involving a slightly smaller amount, or other matters! Here is my question to the representative, Stensaker, which is why big agreements are now being qualified, with less information requirements than in other cases. In my view, the requirement of full disclosure for the Government towards the Stortinget, and that it is the Stortinget that defines what is required, applies unconditionally and in all kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e466	I thought that when the representative Foss had a line on me, it was for something I said. When he refers to Carl I. Hagen, I will ask the representative to ask Hagen, and not ask me what Hagen means. When it comes to the relationship between the board and the owners, what I've been up to in the past is a well-known case. Disclosure requirements in agreements are clearly less binding than in statutes, which must be more legally binding. But in this context, I can refer to the EU directives, where only one requirement is to say yes or no. So simple is the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e476	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e479	In June of this year, we all agreed, with the exception of SV, that merging Telia and Telenor would produce major positive ring-effects. We had great expectations of a new, powerful Nordic telecommunications company that could ensure a nationwide offering of modern and advanced telecommunications and IT services at low prices. We also saw in view a not insignificant gain from the sale of shares in the new company – a merged company that, according to the analysts, should be worth far more than the two companies individually. Unfortunately, it didn't work out that way. After the board meeting of the new company on 8 December 1999, a few days passed before the Norwegian and Swedish Prime Minister agreed to dissolve the company. Why were we not able to achieve the goal of a broad political majority in common? Why did it go wrong? No one has claimed that the negotiations with the Swedes were simple. In such negotiations, there is a question of giving and taking. We got a good agreement that was good for both parties. The valuation of the companies was 40-60, and the Norwegian and Swedish owners should have equal votes in the general meeting. There should be equivalence between voting rights, board representation and the composition of senior management of the company. We got an association agreement on 30 March and a negotiated shareholder agreement that was signed on 19 October. The government put forward its proposal in April. The majority joined this in June last year, and supported the proposal to merge Telenor AS and Telia AB in accordance with the agreed agreement. We were all, with the exception of SV, agreed, and we had, as already mentioned, expectations of a new and powerful company. In the setting, a joint committee, with a few exceptions, has a common comment summarizing what happened. An overall committee also states that: ‘a triggering factor was the failure of the Swedish Government to instruct its directors to attend the general meeting under the shareholder agreement’. For me, it's important to clarify exactly this. It was the failure of the Swedish owner to instruct the board, in line with point 4.5 of the shareholder agreement, to comply with the voting rules in point 4.3, which was decisive. That's why the merger went into disintegration. It was, at least formally, not because one did not agree on the location of the management function of the mobile phone business. Nevertheless, it is possible that the disagreement about this has been one of several underlying reasons for the breach. But what has really been the underlying motives of the Swedish board members, the Swedish board of directors or the Swedish owner, is it really impossible for us to say anything qualified about it. If the Swedes thought the agreement was too good for Norway, if they didn't like Tormod Hermansen, maybe, or there was a disagreement about the location of the mobile device, there would be speculation. There has been a lot of talk about the content of the proposition and the relationship between the proposition and what came out of two notes from one of the government's advisory lawyers. The majority also say something about this in their comments. So let me also say a little bit about this. Could the board of directors of the company take decisions without complying with the voting rights rules? In our comments, we have shown that different lawyers have different conclusions on this. So we don't have any reason to rule out that this could actually happen. It is true that the majority point out that this is not evident from the proposition. However, my starting point is that for just such cases, we had a shareholder agreement, not only with voting rules that would apply in some important matters, but also with an obligation for the two owners to instruct the board of directors about, among other things. comply with the voting rights rules. I note that the majority believe that, despite the fact that the owners were obliged to instruct the board to comply with the voting rules, it should have been written into the proposition that it was probably possible for the board to take valid decisions in the case subject to the shareholder agreement voting rules without complying with those voting rules. The majority also points out that the proposition does not state that the shareholder agreement – and in particular the voting rights rules – cannot be incorporated into the statutes of the new company. The proposal referred to the voting rights rules in the shareholder agreement. The Aktionar contract followed the proposition as an annex printed. It is true that it is not apparent from the proposition that the voting rules under Swedish law cannot be included in the statutes. However, if the Swedish owner had followed the instructions, as shown by the shareholder agreement signed by the Swedish Minister of Industry on 19 October 1999, this would hardly have been a problem today. There has been a disagreement on the location of business areas. When the owners signed a declaration of intent in January 1999, the aim was for the companies to present a unified proposal for the location of the business lines before the owners entered into the association agreement. However, we know that this did not happen, and this is also clear from the proposition. The companies claimed that this could be solved in the course of the further process, and therefore the owners never really negotiated the location of business areas. Just because this issue was not clarified, it was important for the Norwegian owner to put the voting rights rules into place in the shareholder agreement. It provided the basis for Norwegian interests not to be jeopardized after the merger was a fact. However, let me fully agree that it would be a great advantage if the location of the business areas had been clarified before the agreement was concluded. In retrospect – after the Governing Board took its decision on 8 December 1999 without complying with the voting rules of the shareholder agreement – it is even easier to see this. Questions have been raised about whether no more aspects of controversial issues in the negotiations, and not least the issue related to the solutions chosen, should have been more addressed in the proposition. An overall committee agrees that there is a discretionary question as to how much information is to be provided, that it is the Government that has to make the assessment when it submits the case, but that it is the Storting that sovereignly determines what the Storting believes is sufficiently relevant information. The committee majority points to some issues that could have been better elucidated, and I will not dispute that it would have been appropriate. However, I assume that one in a proposition to the Stortinget about a negotiated signed agreement between two countries – in this case a signed agreement with the neighbouring country of Sweden – must be in a position to assume that both countries will follow the agreement, and that one must not outsource the consequences it may have if the partner does not comply with its obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e511	In the telecommunications sector it has been and is a tiring development. The telecommunications sector is international and competition between operators is high. If a telecommunications company is to be a leader in the future, as we would like Telenor to be, it must be able to facilitate further investment. A common Nordic actor would probably have a greater chance of exploiting the potential for expansion and value creation in the international market than Telenor alone. Today, we know that the merger process between Telenor and Telia is not closed. The briefing given to the Prime Minister after the Norwegian and Swedish Governments had had some say that the work on merging the two companies was to be interrupted was a thorough review of the process until the signing of the merger agreement on 30 March 1999 and the signing of the shareholder agreement on 19 October 1999. Furthermore, the Stortinget was briefed on developments after 19 October 1999 and the assessments that led to the conclusion that we all know. It is this briefing from the Prime Minister that is the basis for the Innst. S. No 100 for 1999-2000. In the setting, the majority used a lot of space to discuss whether the legal side of the appointment was good enough. I mean one important question in that context is whether the agreement was built in accordance with normal international practice. As far as I know, no one has shown that there were deviations from what is common, accepted and defended international practice in such cases. Then, of course, we can ask a lot of questions afterwards about what happened, and why that happened. Should e.g. are the rules on voting rights included in the statutes and not only in the shareholder agreement? What is quite clear is that the shareholder agreement was binding on the Norwegian and Swedish states as the only two shareholders. There is reason to stress that it is included in the shareholder agreement that the owners had an obligation to instruct the board members to comply with the voting rights rules of the shareholder agreement. There is no reason to doubt that the board members of the new company were familiar with the content of the shareholder agreement. Then the big question is: is it the agreement that is not good enough, or is it perhaps the will to keep and comply with the agreement that is missing? The majority of comments point to the fact that the Minister of Transport, in the open hearing, referred to the two owners, the Norwegian and Swedish states, as counterparties with different interests and different backgrounds for the positions they negotiated from. When two states are negotiating to reach an agreement to merge two state companies, one company from each country, I can't help but understand that we are initially talking about counterparties as long as there are unresolved questions and the negotiations are ongoing. And it should be lacking that there were no differences of interest in the negotiations! I wonder what words and expressions had been used if the Norwegian government in the negotiations had not stressed and been occupied with Norwegian special interests! I don't see it completely unnatural that the Swedish government had a slightly different starting point, simply to safeguard Swedish interests. When the new company was established, it was the lease and the board of directors of the new company that would operate the company in line with concluded agreements and current law. From that time on, natural enough owners' direct and active roles had to be reduced. With it worth noting that there were routines for good contact between owners, board members and rentals in the new company. Also for contact with the director, there were fixed routines. The agreement that Stortinget got for handling was a negotiated agreement that the Stortinget had to adopt as it was leading, or rejected. The size could not go into and change a single point in the contract. St. pp. No 58 for 1998-99 the negotiated merger framework. The entire merger agreement and the shareholder agreement were annexed to the proposition. It is also worth noting that there was close contact between the department and the management and management in Telenor throughout the negotiations. Then we can later assess whether Stortinget should have had more information about the process that had gone along the way. Should we know about all the problems and problems that were raised and that were solved and covered up in the framework? Of course, the Storting itself is free to assess how much information the Storing will have, but is there now a new line in the design of the multi-storage propositions? It must be if it is the case that, in the staging propositions, we shall have documentation for all the processes under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e530	What is the merger process between Telenor and Telia? To quote from the open hearing, the State Council, Mr Færvoll: ‘This was the largest industrial operation ever at Nordic level.’ Yeah, that's right. ‘Somewhere’ provides a time perspective and ‘maximum industrial operation’ gives the dimension. This wasn't a little rust. SV was against this merger, for several reasons, both because we lost the opportunity to manage ownership, and because we feared that important technology development and competence could be lost. We were not against the merger because we thought it would not succeed, but because we thought it would succeed. We're not happy about the way it went wrong, because it's been a burden, not least for the companies. In the largest industrial operation, it was important that sufficient and correct information was provided to us as decision-makers, and that the department in such a case is well-disciplined and performs good craftsmanship. That's the background for me being very critical. The image was naively optimistic, the information was insufficient and the craft should be better. In the proposition presented to us, and in the process afterwards – yes, even during the open hearing – it has been stated that the parties had common objectives, that they were largely run together all the time, and when the matter was brought before the Stortinget, it was “no doubt any longer” that this was a commendable agreement. That's when I wonder about the political discretion. It had been more and less continuous warriors. Important things were not in place. In the proposition, the question of location of the business lines was explained as follows: «At this stage, it is not appropriate to place management functions in the individual business lines.» ‘Suitable’ — it does not hold. It wasn't an adequate production. During the hearing, Mr Færvoll said: ‘It can be confirmed that in the process from 20 January, when the Memorandum of Understanding was signed, and up to eight weeks before the agreement was due, the question of location was one of the important issues. And the owners put a reasonable amount of pressure on the two companies to reach a goal." In the same hearing, Færvoll said that some of the disappointment was that the business areas were not in place. But when the matter was presented to Stortinget, we were told that it was not because it was not “proper”. Then the question is, Is that bad sense, or is it an attempt to obscure reality? It is a central issue because it is important elements of future technology developments in this country. These are areas where Telenor has been in the front. Now, however, I'm going to add that if the department should have done its job better, it doesn't exempt the large majority of them from being so overly excited about the merger plans last June that they lacked critical sense. The majority of the population knew that the question of location was unsolved. In today's setting, the Workers' Party and the Right are together with us in a criticism that this was not resolved. They knew that at the time, but they did not know the background and part of the pitfalls contained in the agreement. But that this would be difficult, everyone in this room should understand last June. Suffering from speculation, I do not overlook that if the ministry had provided information about the difficulties they had had in the negotiation process, provided information about where they had not come into being, and why, presented the legal concerns that they knew, the majority of people would nevertheless say yes. However, it is not the case whether it would have altered the decision of the Grand Duchy. The Ministry's task is to provide the Storting with necessary, sufficient and correct information, and then the Storting will take responsibility for the decisions it makes. For us in SV, which was the only party that opposed the merger, we see that the information that the department didn't give us would have strengthened our argument. We pointed out that one of the unsolved problems was that the location of the head offices of the business areas was not decided. If we had known the history behind it, why they weren't located, and the legal considerations in relation to the process that we were facing would have strengthened our justification for saying no. We therefore very much appreciate the fact that a majority in the committee today in the vote says: ‘However, the majority would stress that there are lots which have opposed the merger and in that respect would be entitled to know that information, even if they could have strengthened the counter-arguments against the solution chosen.’ This is an important fundamental question: the government has an obligation to provide information that not only justifies the solution that has been chosen but is actually important to us who choose a different solution and who may have been important to those who could have chosen a different solution. No one requires the ministry to transmit kilos of surveys and surveys. It'll be drowning the Storting. What we expect and require is that we should be made aware of elements that may have an impact on the matter, that we are made aware of what might become conflictable, what the Norwegian owner had tried to get in place and not the power to get in place, and what minefield we could be facing. What we got was a rose-painted release, conflict-free and veiled. In fact, the problems during the negotiations were interesting to us, not least what was not in place. It is true that the legal considerations of the voting rules, of their non-inclusion in the statutes, of the legal doubts about the right to instruct members of the board, etc. would be interesting for us – at least for SV, which would have strengthened its position, but I also believe for the others. In fact, when we got the shareholder agreement, but were not made aware that it was not possible to incorporate voting rights into the statutes, it is rather close to misinformation – dangerously close. But it's questionable whether it was deliberate or unintentional, and I'm assuming the last one. The Council of State's understanding of the concept of contradiction, as it has emerged both during the hearing and in written replies, I have problems to grasp. Now the others have been aware that it is possible that I have a bit of a hard time for it, but at least I have problems grasping it. The fact that there is no conflict between the shareholder agreement and the statutes when the voting rules could not be included in the statutes because of Swedish legislation, and the statutes refer to Swedish legislation in the case of voting rules, would be a challenging reasoning to defend for preliminary testing in logic. It could have been a good idea to pass the grade. I have spent most of my time on the political discretion of the Government, the information that was given us before the decision was made. There is also reason to look at the craftsmanship that was practiced after the decision to enlarge, for example. the exchanges of letters which took place in August and September, and which the Council of State referred to as the ‘great rematch’ and a ‘trouble situation’. When we study the exchange of letters, it is easy to see that it explained little, only that the agreements were in force, not what the parties included in the agreements. There may also be reason to comment on the near-breakage on 18 October. In other words, there were a number of major conflicts that you couldn't get such clarifications that this lasted over time. And it was clear that there was different understanding among the parties. But I'll leave it, not least for temporal reasons. In general, I have to say, it wasn't done well enough craftsmanship to ensure that the two owners had the same reality. What has subsequently been produced as a clarification did not clarify all the key issues of the ‘largest industrial operation’ at Nordic level ‘anything’. It is very bold – very bold – by the Council of State when he said in the hearing: ‘In other words, when we presented the breadth of the matter, I think that we still do’ – and this has been said a short time ago, during the hearing – ‘may say that that was enough, that was what was necessary, and that was what was right to present to the Stortinget in order to make a correct decision.’ The majority in the Committee is of a different opinion. Today, if the Minister of Transport – and the Prime Minister – insists that the Storting got what was sufficient, necessary and correct to give the Storting, the Government has a problem. Then it has not understood the criticism that the majority is raising.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e598	In the agreement handled by Stortinget in the spring, there were three fundamental principles underlying: The merger and management of the new company must be based on equal influence between the parties. The company should be partially privatised and listed. The new company must have a commercial and commercial device to form the basis for long-term industrial cooperation. When presenting the new Nordic telecommunications company, the successive group leader, Tormod Hermansen, said: ‘We are to create a Nordic flagship in the telecom and IT industries.’ The ambition was to set up a company to develop further as a leading provider of information and communication services in Northern Europe and expand internationally to become a leading global player in areas where the company has or can develop competences and competitive advantages, such as in mobile and satellite communications, the Internet and other services and uses based on the Internet protocol. The left is the drawer that this merger will not be closed. This was a merger that both Telenor and Telia wanted, and with which one believed both the Swedish and Norwegian owners saw advantages, and where one believed one had common vision and willingness to move towards the same goal. This also requires a common willingness to solve outstanding problems. The association agreement between the Swedish and Norwegian owners submitted to the Stortinget in spring 1999 could either say yes or no. In connection with the matter we handle today, the cancellation has been sent over a number of lawyer notes that show different problem settings The government has worked with during negotiations on this agreement. One of the most widely discussed questions was whether the board has the right to take valid decisions in company law in breach of the voting rights rules of the shareholder agreement. The BA-HR Advocate General, dated 15 March 1999, pointed out that the Board of Directors is not directly bound by the shareholder agreement, and therefore, without breaching neither the statutes nor Swedish company law, may take decisions without complying with the voting rights rules. For the Left, it was essential that a dior in the shareholder election got into the owner's obligation to instruct the board members to comply with the voting rights rules in the shareholder agreement. In the process both before the merger agreement was signed on 30 March 1999 and the shareholder agreement was signed on 19 October 1999, there has been close cooperation between the department and Telenor’s board and administrative management, where the department has in all cases obtained advice, and followed them. After the new company was established, there is ongoing contact between the department and the Norwegian board members of the company. There was also a routine, where the department met with the Swedish chairman, Jan Åke Kark, in advance of all the important board meetings. And there were also established procedures for contact between the owners. The councils stated during the open hearing: ‘Then the owners left the track.’ For the Norwegian owner, my claim will be as follows: The owner then sits on the wooden bench. The left has registered that it was theoretically and legally possible for the board to take decisions contrary to the shareholder agreement. But the shareholder agreement provided for a system in which the owners mutually commit themselves to instruct the board of directors. An agreement exists to be held, this applies in all contexts of society. And the Left had no reason to believe that the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs, as a representative of the Swedish owner, would not respect this agreement. As a representative of big business, I am committed to the fact that all the issues presented by the Government contain the information that is relevant and necessary for me to take a position. In St. prp. No 58 for 1998-99, about the merger of Telenor AS and Telia AB, I think I got the information I needed to give Left's big group advice, and my advice was to vote for Telenor AS and Telia AB being merged into a new company in accordance with agreed agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e638	The merger of Telenor and Telia would have been one of the largest, perhaps the biggest, industrial projects in the Nordic region ever. The project crashed. The disaster resulted in the loss of opportunities for tens of billions. The tragic fact of the accident has been given too little attention in the months that have gone by. So a few words about the relationship with the neighboring people in the east. The Progress Party has today produced the Swedes as cellar rings, that they have used procurator's grip in the process. I want to distance myself from such presentations by the Swedes. Nevertheless, I would like to add that the Swedes have clearly acted critically in the process that we have behind us. But the Swedes had not been working to put Telenor and Telia together for a couple of years if they had not also wanted the merger in place. I'm pretty sure the Swedes haven't been out to trick the Norwegians into this process. Clearly, there has been genuine will also from the Swedish side to get the merger in place. However, the issue today is not about the relationship between Norway and Sweden. The issue today is the relationship between government and corruption. In retrospect, it has become known in the negotiations that the issue of location of management functions for the different business units was very difficult. The owners were unable to agree on this issue, and then it is not possible afterwards to present it as if this was not a problem at all. The problem was pushed over to the board. The government presents this as unproblematic. There had to be a reason why the question was not resolved by the owners, and when it was pushed over to the board, the government had to know that this was like an unexplored bomb. And at the same time, the Government had informed its legal advisers that the new company could take decisions on this – valid decision – without any of the Norwegian board members agreeing to the decision. The government therefore knew that according to Swedish law the voting rights rules of the shareholder agreement could not be included in the statutes of the new company. It is critical that the interpretation of the voting rights rules in the shareholder agreement was not clarified by the parties. It is critical that the Stortinget was not made aware that the board could take legal decisions contrary to the shareholder agreement and that the special voting rights rules could not be included in the statutes of the new company. It is critical that the Stortinget was not made aware of the problems that could arise in dealing with the location issue of the board. The government had to know, as I said, that this was like an unexplored bomb. In the Prime Minister's statement before Christmas, there was no lack of maritime criticism for the way the matter had been dealt with. Yes, it was manufactured almost as if nothing could have been done differently in the process that one had been behind. A good question to ask then is: why did it really go in the sink if nothing could have been done differently? If there was nothing that could have been done differently, perhaps the stop signal should have come up earlier, especially when one beyond the harvest saw how this developed. The size is of a different opinion. It's quite clear, as I've now been through, that there's information that should have been the Storing in her. The government's handling is critical in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e653	The background for today's debate is, as you know, my statement in the Stortinget on 21 December last year. There I went thoroughly through the facts concerning both the negotiations on association, the Government's view of the content of the agreements and the background to the decision on voluntary winding-up of the company. The attitude of the Committee on Transport shows that there is a cross-political consensus that a voluntary dissolution of the merged company of Telia and Telenor was a correct decision, as conditions had developed in December last year. I have also noticed that the majority are of the opinion that the project was initially industrially correct, and would have been able to create a Nordic telecommunications company with significant synergies in terms of competitiveness, size and market value, a company that could have applied on the international telecommunications market. On this basis, it is expressed as a disappointment that the merger has failed. In my opinion, the negotiated agreement was a good and balanced agreement, which would be beneficial for both countries if it had been followed up. The agreement was based on trust between the parties. Da St.prp. No 58 for 1998-99 was presented and dealt with in Stortinget, the Government had no indication that the agreement would be broken. Based on the contacts that had been, both in writing and orally, we had reason to believe that the Swedish owners had the same understanding of the shareholder agreement as we did. A majority of the Committee expresses itself critically to the Government's information to the Storing on this matter. Some of the criticisms raised relate to the lack of problematisation of the relationship between contract law and company law and the lack of reference to points in the contract law relating to voting rights. The government initially considered that the information for the Storting was sufficient as a basis for the decision to which the Stortinget was invited. But it is always the Storting that ultimately assesses the amount of material, discussion and problematisation that should be included in the decision-making basis of the Government to which the Storting belongs. When a majority on this basis criticises the Government, we take this inward and accept it. There is an assessment case of the amount of written material to be included in the production of a proposition. I see – as the case developed – that the company law framework could have been further illuminated and problematised. The same applies to the issue of whether the board of directors could take valid decisions in company law contrary to the shareholder agreement, as is known in the disputed location issue. When it was not considered necessary in its time to go into this in detail in the proposition, it was among other things. because we were convinced that there was agreement between the parties to the agreement on understanding the shareholder agreement, and we assumed that both parties would respect and follow it. It happened that didn't happen. From the Swedish side, this is never justified by the lack of agreement with the governance mechanism that the shareholders had incorporated into the agreement. It was the interpretation of the decisions that had to be made under the special voting rules, which were used to explain that the Swedish Chairperson used his double voice to determine the location of the management of the business units in the contested meeting on 8 December. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee also believes that the preparatory work on this point of agreement speaks for the Norwegian interpretation of the provisions. In my presentation I summed up the background to the Government's interpretation of the shareholder agreement in five points: 1st@item: inlistbox The point of agreement was negotiated on the Norwegian initiative because the companies did not agree in time on the location of the management of the business units.2. The Norwegian Landfill Proposition, in which our understanding of the shareholder agreement and voting rights rules has been reproduced, was submitted to the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs and was otherwise examined at a meeting with two officials from each department, without any objections to this point from Sweden.3. Council of State Rosengren confirmed by letter of 30 August 1999 that the shareholder agreement will apply if the EU Commission accepted the merger. It did, as we know, the European Commission. In a letter dated 1 September 1999, the Council of State, Mr Færvoll, clarified that the special voting rights rules were applicable to localisation issues.4. The State Council of Rosengren repeated in a letter dated 23 September that the agreement should be respected. 5th@item: inlistbox Chairman Jan Åke Kark said in an interview on 30 September that it was not appropriate to use a double vote in the board of directors on the location of parts of the business, and that there must be agreement and acceptance from both countries. There is a broad consensus that it would be desirable for the location of the business units to be clarified before the conclusion of the association agreement. However, it was not at any time the owners who negotiated this relationship. This is because the location of the business units is linked to the organisation of the company as such, and thus an important part of the company’s business strategy. The reason the companies did not agree on the location as early as March was mainly because the development of a business strategy for the new company was not ready at that time. The Board’s authority on localisation issues was specifically mentioned in the proposition under point 6.2.4. The point states that the new company’s board of directors should decide how the management of the business lines should be positioned. It also says in the same point: ‘The objective must be to achieve as powerful a commercial organisation as possible for the group as a whole. In order to achieve this, the further planning of the organisation and management functions in each business area, including the location options, must be carried out as an integral part of the strategy development process for the designated business line management...’;» As I said, it would have been an advantage if the location had been completed in March – before the merger of the companies. However, as owners, we could not force a localisation choice at a time when the strategy development process was not clarified. It was a very large and comprehensive combination with a significant strategy work that was carried out. Constructive cooperation must be based on mutual trust and security in keeping agreements. The fact that the location was not carried out in March must not be taken as an indication that there was then a lack of trust between the parties. We signed the agreement as we know it. But the other party did not follow up. Therefore, we finally saw no other way out than that the company is now being dissolved. I agree with what the committee says when it notes that the triggering factor was the failure of the Swedish government to instruct its board members at the general meeting under the shareholder agreement, and notes that the government has been committed to a strategy to get the Swedish owner to comply with the agreement as understood by the Norwegian government. Now it's important to learn what we can learn from this process and move on. As I said in my statement on 21 December last year, the Government will follow up the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party on the partial privatisation and listing of Telenor, and present this to the Stortinget in ours. In the position under consideration today, there is a proposal, from the Party of Advances and the Right, where a ‘ber Regeringen brings together the State’s interests in the Norwegian business community in one department’. There are good reasons for the principle contained in this proposal. But it has to be reviewed in the light of all the companies involved; for some, this will be easier than for others. The matter was as much as I remember, in connection with Storting's treatment of the ownership message. The government then said so and is prepared to review this situation for the various companies in which the State holds interests and, on the basis, to consider the principle of the proposal made by the two parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e709	After the Prime Minister's statement to the Stortinget before Christmas, the Prime Minister was left with the impression that the Prime Minister wanted to put a sentence on the matter as follows: one of the biggest industrial policy issues has unfortunately gone into the laundry, but it is because of one and only the other. No mistakes have been made by the Norwegian Government. The Storting could not accept this without going into the matter more closely. That's what the Storting has done. The attitude of an overwhelming majority also gives a completely different picture than the one before Christmas tried to give. The Prime Minister now said that he is taking inwards and accepting the criticism. In popular language, it means to lay down flat. The Prime Minister also said that he saw that the company law conditions could have been further problematic. It was good that he said, because that's what the Stortinget wanted you to do. In his presentation before Christmas there was no opening that this should have been done. I assume that the position of the Grand Committee will form the basis for the relationship between magnification and government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e720	As I said in my post: It's always the Storting that even ultimately assesses how much material, problematization and discussion it wants in a matter. I have so long parliamentary experience that I respect it. And when the population thinks that they would have more in that way, I accept that. But when Jagland tries to create a sharp contrast to my statement before Christmas on this, I don't think he's had a clear explanation before Christmas. It did not refer to the information and the relationship between accumulation and government in this way, it set out the procedure and the background – the negotiations, the exchange of letters and why it finally went as it went. Otherwise, I record and note that the Workers' Party, together with the majority of others, places the list high on demands for full material, discussion and problematisation in landfills. And of course, I expect that the party will then be consistent and put the list equally high in other big, important issues. And if I'm allowed, I'll allow myself the side note that it's also going to be interesting to see how the Workers' Party will follow it up, for example. in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in its consideration of a previous proposal on another matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e731	It looks like the Prime Minister has put himself on that line that it's safest to talk about other issues than the one you're dealing with right now. I think we'll talk about it. I was a little stunned when I heard the Prime Minister's introduction, because I got the impression that he still deals solely with this as a matter of agreement, and that was kind of the legal agreement itself and the information about the one that was the point. It is also an important matter, but I would like to remind him that this matter of agreement was a fundamental problem, namely that the conflict of interest was such that one never manages to solve the issue of division of business. And it was these basic things that give the impression that you didn't have a common vision. It was those things that were especially important for the Storting to get insight into. So the Prime Minister may have, probably in a bad way, gone a little narrow in his post, and I expect it to be in trouble. Otherwise, I just have to note that the tone we got before Christmas, in the presentation and in the press conference, and so far also in the hearing, is a completely different tone than the one we now have, when you take in and accept the criticism. So that means that the Prime Minister now accepts the content and justification of the criticism, and assumes that things should have been done differently, and that this forms the norm for the future. I think that's good. I think it is particularly good that we now find that it is important that the government also presents counter-representations, simply so that it is possible to understand a matter when you get it presented. It has not been said that one should be killed in information, but one must have enough clues that one can go into the important aspects of the matter, including what is counter-representation, because we must insist that it is the Government that is our primary source of information. And once we've made this principle crystal clear at this treatment, this has been an important treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e743	I don't have much to say about Jan Petersen's line. He is probably right that there has been a fundamental disagreement about the allocation of business areas and, in particular, the mobile phone unit, as it is obvious that both companies that joined the joint company, and to the extent that both owners, were interested in coming on their side of the refrigerator. As I also said, it would have been an advantage if it had been clarified between the two companies that discussed it, before March. When that did not happen, and the government did not see that we could force such a decision, we had to have voting rules in the shareholder agreement that made this decision later on in a way that both countries could live with, that it had to be with at least one vote from each side. We had confidence that that agreement at that point would be complied with, and can only show that it did not happen when the Swedish owner instructed his board members to vote in accordance with these rules. Otherwise, I also have so much understanding and respect for what Jan Petersen says about what Stortinget uses that should be the norm in the future as to how extensive and how much one should discuss issues relating to propositions in such major matters. It will also lead us into some difficult balances in the case of Norwegian state companies, and Telenor, partial privatisation, stock exchange listing, etc., and we will come back to that, so that Storting will get enough material in such cases. And as I said, it can also be interesting in some other things the Stortinget currently has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e750	I think that the Prime Minister balanced his statement on the issue of information between the government and the magnificence. But I was surprised at the high cigar lead in the line record, in the answer to the Jagland line. There I think the Prime Minister drew a sigh of relief too early. For there is a contradiction between the statement made by Bondevik in December and the understanding that the Government then gave, and what the majority of the Committee on Transport has written in its comments. The majority understands that the Prime Minister has read the remarks from the majority, but we are uncertain whether the Prime Minister has recognised the criticism that is actually there. For such recognition means that the Prime Minister cannot claim that what he said in the Storting in December about the procedure in this matter was perfect. I would like to know if the Prime Minister has acknowledged the content of the criticism that the majority of the population has made in their comments. Secondly, it is alarming when the government parties and the Progress Party in the vote on this matter write: ‘These members will stress that it is the negotiated agreement submitted to the Stortinget for its approval. In such cases, it is not possible for the Storting to change the contract; the Storting has only the possibility to join the contract or to reject it. If the Storting had had the opportunity to make changes to the agreement, as the Storting has as legislator and in a number of other cases, there would also be a broader and more complete description of each wording in the contract text.» Does the Government share this understanding from the government parties and the Progress Party on the Government's disclosure obligation to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e763	Kristin Halvorsen's first question was whether I have acknowledged the criticism. Yes, when I said that I accept the criticism, it's the same content of it for me as that one admits the criticism. So I've done that and I think I've responded clearly, and I have respect for the norm Stortinget also through this for how full the propositions should be, and how much should be discussed and problematised on issues that are difficult. On the second question, I understood that it was something that was set out in the Committee's position, which included: is: ‘If the Storting had the opportunity to make changes to the agreement,’ – and it is not known in this case – ‘the Storting has as its legislator in a number of other cases, it would also be the basis for a broader and more complete description of each wording in the contract text.’ Yes, that is a correct description, but of course it is not an excuse for a majority in this case too – where one had to decide on the agreement, or say yes or no – also believes that one should have had a more complete mention. We accept that the Stortinget believes, so this is not an excuse on my part in relation to the majority of people who think they should have had in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e775	I notice that the Prime Minister says that Stortinget places the list high. Let me then remind you that here in the proposition was not a trace of problematization, and here in the proposition was not a trace of information about the relationship between location, shareholder agreement, statute and management. So I find it hard to see that the Storting places the list very high when the Storting finds it reasonable that there is such a problematization, that there is such information. In addition to that, I agree with the others who have participated in the change of line, that this was a prime minister with a completely different position and a completely different recognition from the one we heard during the presentation in December, and that the distance between the Prime Minister's presentation and the criticism of the Committee and the Grand Duchy and the Prime Minister's acceptance of the criticism is both interesting and striking. I'm glad the Prime Minister is so flat on the criticism. I noticed that the Prime Minister used the wording that he takes the criticism inwards, and that he accepts it. I assume with it he also expresses that he will follow the criticism and base the Storting's understanding. I recorded that for a period of time, the Prime Minister was problematic about the follow-up to Storting's assumptions. However, I choose to assume that the answer to the representative Halvorsen was to understand that the Prime Minister unequivocally confirms that he will base his understanding on Stortingen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e784	I have used the expression that the Storting “raises the list”, and I understand that the Storting wants to do so, because one wants the information to be complete, and of course especially in matters of great importance and with significant economic values inside. I think it's an interesting statue from Stortinget's side, which I think will also follow up on different issues and in different contexts. And as I well said in my reply to the Right parliamentary leader, I consider this to be a norm for the government's information to the Stortinget. I therefore believe that I have answered the question asked by Schjøtt-Pedersen, already earlier in the line change. Without compromising the relationship between my presentation and the Committee's position today, I note that where the Committee has used the term "critical" first – as far as I have been able to read, three times – it is based on what the proposition should have contained. Then, of course, you can also say that my statement should have contained similar relationships – i.e. relationships that go on information from government to landfill – while my statement, as you know, mainly went on the case in this, and why it went as it went on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e793	I just need a little extra comment on the last issue. If you look at the presentation, the press conference before Christmas and the hearing of the Minister of Transport, there was no trace of the recognition that the Government has now come up with. And I think that the Prime Minister might as well take root only as last time. I understand his instincts about – one might say – getting 10 pst. The discount on the criticism, but I'll warn you that he's trying. The criticism is there, and there is a clear contrast to the picture the Government has created – just so there should be no doubt about it. My real reason for taking the word again was that I was a little surprised at how he dealt with the minority's double standard concept when it came to information. It is quite clear that there is a different standard for information in the matters where the agreement is to be adopted, in relation to a case like this, i.e. that individual elements of the agreement can be adopted in relation to a yes/no situation here. My advice to the Prime Minister, and not only advice, but what I expect him to agree with is that the double standard that the minority raises on page 11, second column, he should simply forget. Size sets a different default from the one that the minority tries to process in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e800	As it appeared from my main post and my reply, I have, on behalf of the Government, addressed the comments and criticisms of the majority. I don't want to go along with the characteristics that Jan Petersen gave of the minority's comments. But I've seen it as natural that I deal primarily with the comments of the majority, and I've said that we accept the criticism on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e805	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e808	I have to say that this debate is developing to be very, very fundamentally interesting, and I have waited a long time to hear the head of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, come up with his views on the Workers' Party's understanding of the obligation to provide information, or the obligation to provide information. That's because in the position on pages 7, 8 and 9, there are some fundamental views on this, where the Progress Party, along with the majority of the rest, SV, Right and Workers' Party, is involved in part of the principle views. With regard to the case in question, we find that the obligation to provide information and to provide information is not broken, while other parts of the majority believe that there have been critical aspects of the Government – that is, different assessments of how the principle views should be applied to the case in question. When I say that I was particularly concerned with the head of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Jaglands, views on this, it is because the Workers' Party is part of the majority who writes in their introductions, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progressive Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, show that the obligation to provide information is enshrined in the Code of Responsibility of 1932 and in a long parliamentary practice since the introduction of parliamentaryism.’ It is therefore based on the Liability Act, which relates to the constitutional responsibility of the State Councils vis-à-vis the Stortinget, and not to parliamentary responsibility. I assume that Thorbjørn Jagland has got a thorough introduction to the difference in this after his somewhat erroneous statements and misunderstandings in connection with the so-called Furre case a few years ago, where he mixed these things up. So it's a constitutional responsibility you have under the Liability Act, and that's the starting point of the Workers' Party now. Furthermore, the Workers' Party, Right and SV, in their understanding of the information and information obligation, has placed the list very high, as the Prime Minister correctly says. If it's going to apply to the Storting's handling of such cases, I assume there's an understanding of it in all such cases, although there might be some other events in previous accumulation. We have several interesting issues to deal with in the Storting Control and Constitutional Committee, and we in our group have assessed how this information obligation should be and where the list should be, before we may feel it is our duty to follow up. I am therefore very pleased that Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland has today said that the list should be high and that the provisions of the Liability Act should be taken seriously. This applies in particular to the first case, which will come relatively quickly, namely Document No. 1, the so-called Fatima project in Finnmark, where the Riksrevision – in daily terms – the ‘slaughtered’ landfilling proposition due to the lack of information, poor pre-work and scandalous work that resulted in the fact that today we find that approx. 1 000 million. 1999-krona has been wasted. So the excess, because of the very delete work presented at the beginning of the 1990s, is 58 pst, despite the fact that the Storting was told that it was a plus-minus factor of 10 pst. There are many representatives who have later said that if the real information had come out that time and they had known it would be so expensive, they would probably have voted against it. I find it difficult to see that the majority of the Storting, based on what the Workers' Party, Right and SV have written about the principle views on this, cannot now initiate the procedures listed in Stortingen's Rules of Procedure § 14a. So to the question that Per-Kristian Foss in vain has longed to ask me, but that he cannot ask, as there is no line change after the parliamentary leaders today. He has asked for an understanding of what is on page 11, second column, which is also referred to by the Prime Minister. I'll quote it one more time. ‘If the Storting had the opportunity to make changes to the agreement, as the Storting has as legislator and in a number of other cases, there would also be a broader and more complete description of each wording in the contract text.’ I think that is very well said. We have from time to time for treatment in this room, for example. EU directives, we have conventions that are the result of annual negotiations in the UN system – that is yes and no. It is clear that then the Storting will always deal with the main principles and the main questions. If there are other types of things, there may be details that the Storting can actually change. Then you will also go into the details. In the present case, there were some main principles: Was it industrially right to merge the two companies? Was the ratio so that we could accept it? Was the implementation agreement complex balanced? So now it is said that the Government should have written in a proposition to the Stortinget: This agreement with the Swedish government is based on the fact that the Swedish government is to be trusted. Jussen is somewhat deficient if the Swedish government is not willing to trust and intends to break the agreement. It is not that we have legal provisions that ensure that we can take the Swedish government to court and force it to do what the Swedish government will not do. You can't write like that! That you should have done it because it has turned out in retrospect that it would have been necessary is okay. It cannot be assumed that the government of a neighboring country is untrustworthy. It is possible that the Workers' Party and Jagland's contact with Göran Persson in the social democratic Nordic cooperation has learned that Göran Persson and the Swedish government are not really to be trusted. But then it was not necessary for the Norwegian government to inform the Workers' Party about this, because they had already learned that these were people you could not trust. Then you should have asked how to behave when there were weaknesses in the agreement, because we can't make the Swedish government follow up if we don't have any better legal regulations. I think this is a bit awkward. It's okay that some parties are on government hunts and looking with light and light, like Sherlock Holmes, after finding something that might provide a basis for it. But I don't think they found anything here at all. Of course, one could not have expected and based on the fact that the Swedish government would not specifically instruct its board members. Governor Kark had publicly expressed the same understanding. This is about trust, as the Prime Minister has also said. There must be trust between governments until it has been shown that there is no basis for that. Now it has been shown that there was no basis for this with regard to the Swedish government. I hope that the Norwegian Government has now noticed when it comes to having other types of negotiations, so that one does not get into a similar situation again. I find it sad for the brothers that they have a government that is not to be trusted. But that's their problem. It was also ours in this case. But the law had not changed on this. You have to assume, as we write in a note, that the legislator, at least a majority of legislators, is aware that corporate law is a decision of the board of directors by a double vote in force. If it is the case that in the Right and Workers' Party groups there is so-called a lack of understanding of relatively fundamental things, the Government is aware of it and is conducting adult training and legal training on naturalities. It was the shareholder agreement that obliged the Swedish Government to give instructions to the board members. That the Swedish government could do that was quite obvious. After all, they had their own departmental people there, at least put a Day This from the department of the board. After what Norwegian board members have also said, it was so at the board meetings that Kark looked down at this, which with body language and a bit of nodding and blinking gave signals to the chairman of the board about what he was going to do. That the Swedish department had full control of the Swedish board members was obvious. We do not see that there is any reason to make the criticisms made by the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, but I am very grateful that Thorbjørn Jagland has made it clear that he wants to place the list very high in terms of the provisions of the Liability Act, and of course it will have consequences for the work of the Storting beyond spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e846	I will be allowed to start by seeing myself as Prime Minister and representative Hagen had done a good job of sticking to the issue we are debating today, instead of throwing myself into the realm of what the Workers' Party and other parties are doing in relation to the government's information obligation in various matters to the Stortinget. What I think is the alarming thing is that both the Prime Minister and the representative Hagen believe that it is possible to do different interpretations depending on what a large document you have to deal with, of what is the government's obligation to provide information. The explanation that the representative Hagen made an attempt at now does not keep water – far from it. It may clearly show that precisely his intention is to find different arguments for holding a protective hand over the government of Bondevik, and it must be a greater problem for the government of Bondevik than it is for the rest of the Storing. It is not that the Storting is such that we should say yes or no to an agreement. Of course, it must be in such a way that the information the Storting should have in order for the Storting to make the right decision. And whether we're going to say yes or no to an agreement or whether we're going to decide other things, the purpose of the disclosure obligation and the information that Stortinget gets is that Storting is able to make the right decision. In the case of Telia-Telenor, it was such that either one could say yes, with the uncertainty it meant if the Storting had been given the right information or enough information, or one could say no because the uncertainty was too great. We wouldn't take that risk, we wouldn't play that high with that much money. Or – there is actually a third possibility, because this is an agreement between two countries – it could be said that no, here the uncertainty is too great, the government must please continue to negotiate. That would also have been an opportunity. Therefore, it is not possible to make an attempt to distinguish between the types of matters under consideration and to exempt agreements between two countries from the general obligation to provide information. Then I can assure the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and in particular on behalf of the Workers' Party members of the Control and Constitutional Committee, that we shall be vigilant, that there shall be a link between the requirements we make to the various Governments and the various governments on the obligation to provide information – whether it be road construction, airport, railway, national hospital or whatever. The Prime Minister shall be quite sure that the representatives of the Workers' Party on the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee will not impose any stricter requirement on the Prime Minister's Governments than we do on previous Governments of the Workers' Party. I think the Prime Minister might be pleased about that. With regard to this matter, there is a question whether the Storting should have been informed that the negotiations were very difficult all the way, and it was quite obvious that especially when it came to the mobile device, it was very difficult to get to a conclusion. And why especially about the mobile device? Yes, because it is so important to both countries. Then there is a question, if it had been made clear to the Stortinget that this very question was not possible to agree between the parties before signing the agreement, and that this question was so unclear, whether there was also a significant risk that the Swedes would interpret the agreement differently in order to obtain a decision that satisfied the Swedish interests when placing the mobile device. It would have been all right to make that decision and enter into the agreement as it was, if the Storting had been presented with these questions, and said that this uncertainty we are willing to live with. That is exactly what the majority of the Committee on Transport says, that if we had become aware of this uncertainty, we could have assessed it and incorporated this risk. And if the government had worked more on these questions and taken the advice from the law firms inwards, it might have been possible to build up other thresholds which made it impossible, under Swedish company law, to set aside the shareholder agreement and make a decision that was not in accordance with the Norwegian – and as we see it, also the Swedish – interests. I also allow myself to comment on the last part of the committee position, where the Right and Advance Party have the opinion that if this company had been privatised or partially privatised, everything would have been fine. Yes, then I allow myself to say that then the result had been that the mobile device had remained in Sweden. I can't see that it would've been all right. So we should really be glad that the joint desire of the middle parties, the Right and the Advance Party to sub-privatise Telenor was not fulfilled before this agreement was discussed, because then we could lose this important element in the Norwegian nutrition strategy and Norwegian nutrition policy in the future. I don't ignore the fact that we have to look at how we're going to organise ownership in Telenor in the future. But this case clearly shows that there must be a link between the ambitions we have nationally and internationally, where we choose a structure on this company that will enable it to meet competition, while at the same time being able to meet important national industrial policy needs. It's not as simple as saying that only we get some private capital – because capital also demands influence in the process that goes before we make decisions. In conclusion, I would like to say that I listened with interest to what the Prime Minister said, that he accepted and, in particular, was interested in helping the understanding of the majority in the Committee on Transport of the Information Obligation was based on the further work of the Government, but should also be a practice that should be applicable between magnification and government in the future. It is not the case that the government's obligation to provide information and information to the Storting is something that can be read out of legal documents; it will always be the sum of the political processes in progress, both in government and magnificence. But constitutionally, it will be that any document and any debate on these issues will be involved in setting thresholds for the future. And I just want to end by saying that I fully agree with the thresholds that the majority of the Committee on Transport here set for what should be the understanding of the information obligation between government and enlargement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e870	In my opinion, the pluralistic remarks in the vote on the Prime Minister's statement on the Telenor-Telia Sea are suitable for amazement. I understand that parties that went high on the track during the first days of the negotiation break need to justify the high profile and the strong first reactions, but the angle the majority has chosen, and the individual elements that you have chosen to focus on are not very impressive, to say it carefully. The Working Party, Right and SV do, among others. a large number of the fact that the Minister for Transport has referred to the other negotiating party as ‘counterpart’ and they seriously claim that ‘this raises doubts about the basis of the merger and its viability’. To draw such far-reaching consequences from the fact that the other party is referred to as a counterparty in bilateral negotiations may indicate that the majority has had problems finding more serious points of attack. The progress party has included in its comments a very interesting article that Knut A. Skaslien had in the Evening Post on 23 January. The main point of the scissor is that a political agreement between two countries must be based on trust and that it is not possible to ‘close all unfair loopholes’. And on the other hand, ‘The willingness to comply with a political agreement — in particular an agreement between States — can never be ensured by this method.’ It would have been directly striking to problematize this in the proposition, as the majority obviously believe that the Government should have done. It could, as the center parts say in the setting: ‘undermine the relationship of trust between the parties if a Norwegian party would significantly highlight and problematise any consequences of the failure of the contracting partner, in this case the Swedish State, to comply with the agreement.’ The notes submitted by the lawyers as part of the proceedings have been central to the debate on the Telenor-Telia case, and are also given great importance in the majority comments. However, this is largely about strategic notes that point to weaknesses in the preliminary draft agreement. When, for example: with regard to the note from BA-HR, to which the Advocate-General gave such emphasis, it is appropriate to point out that the Board of Directors is not directly bound by the shareholder agreement and therefore, without breaching neither the statutes nor Swedish company law, may take decisions without complying with the voting rights rules. But this information from BA-HR, in turn, led to the fact that the owners' obligation to instruct was included in the shareholder agreement! It is difficult to see that it is obvious that such strategic notes that are part of the internal procedure should have been submitted to the Stortinget. It is serious when the majority of the Grand Duchy adopts the form of expression ‘slight employment’ in its observations, even if this strong opinion is subject to reservations in the vote. When the majority, members of the Workers’ Party, Right and SV must use a specific interpretation of an opinion of the Minister of Transport during the open hearing as the basis for the characteristics of ‘slight employment’, yes, this testifies to the lack of other, weighty arguments. The Aktionar agreement shackles the principle of independence for the board of directors and the responsibility of the board of directors and management to run the company. When the Minister for Transport makes a statement in line with this and says that ‘it was left to a professional board and a professional management to carry on the work’ after the agreement was signed on 19 October, it is unreasonable, as the majority does, to interpret this as a passivity on by the owners, suggesting that this is an expression of ‘slight employment’. It is difficult to see that the majority has coverage for it in part strong criticism raised against the Government in this matter. But it's the sun's brighter the Storting's right to make such criticisms. And the minority in the Great Britain and the Government can hardly do anything but accept the criticism and take note of it, but at the same time one must also be able to emphasise the fact that parts of the majority have found reason to state that the remarks in the election must not be perceived as mistrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e895	When the Telia-Telenor merger collapsed just before Christmas last year, this came as a significant surprise to all of us, a negative surprise in the sense that we had actively wanted such a major merger in order to make our common ability to make an effort on the telecommunications market and to have a growth potential for Norwegian and Nordic industry without a parallel. The surprise came because there was no indication that this merger process could break down and collapse on the basis it did. Then the Prime Minister made a statement to the Stortinge around this, where the only message was that the merger collapsed because of positions from the Swedish side. Such a situation could not be met by Stortinget, and we have also seen that through consultation, committee treatment and committee setting, we have had a completely different result. Significant criticisms have been raised against the Government in a number of areas. This concerns both the information provided by the Stortinget and the performance of its duties. The Prime Minister has wisely agreed with and accepted the criticism that has arisen, which means, of course, that the Prime Minister agrees, for the Government, that the Government should have put itself in a position which would have prevented the criticism that the Committee has brought. That is, the Government accepts the errors pointed out by the Committee as errors by the Government. So far this case with its tragic, actual outcome has received a treatment in Stortinget that Stortinget can live with. But when the Prime Minister says that what he said before Christmas was an actual account of an event, while what the Prime Minister says today, is an answer to the committee review and the critical committee majority has come along, this is a somewhat ludicrous reasoning. The committee review just looks at what was the processing advance of the merger we got by the Storting and the Government. Ergo is what the Prime Minister today admits, at my best discretion, a strong moderation of the positions of the Prime Minister in his presentation to the Great Government in December. So far it's also good and good in the relationship between government and greatness. I think, like Jan Petersen, I'm going to ask the Prime Minister to be a bit careful to base a defense on discussing other issues than the matter of Stortinget's being dealt with today. It is said that the list is now high and that the list is generally high in relation to the information obligation towards the Storting and in relation to problematisation of areas that may be difficult in the course of a case. That's right, but it's not new, and it's especially not new in a case that has as great an economic impact on the Norwegian community as this case has. Therefore, this case is also of its size unique. It is of its size, on its economic scale, unique and cannot be easily compared with any other issue The Stortinget has to deal with, although, of course, the principles of government information obligations must be continuous. It is also strange that the Prime Minister has so unreservedly bowed to Storting's criticism to see a few of the co-defenses the Government has had in this matter. One thing is that it's strange that the Central Party's parliamentary leader is so strongly desulphurizing and distancing himself from what the majority of the population says about a number of the specific points that have been put forward in the vote. It's hardly the kind of defense the government and the prime minister needs today. Even stranger is well – but there is in particular not the large majority table in this context – the unreserved support the Government gets for conditions that have been criticized by a large number of people, from Carl I. Hagen. I don't know how much Hagen as a support pillar for the Government in this and other matters is a requested good for the Prime Minister and for the government parties, but it's obvious that where some parties have been accused of government hunting, Hagen has had the sharp opposite starting point. For various policy reasons, government education is Hagen's main concern. We noted that in the round between the parliamentary leaders, following the Prime Minister's presentation in December, where Hagen, in a customary free-standing manner, put a sort of misappropriation proposal against the Swedish Government. We note it in the kind of defense that Hagen has listed for the Government today. Of course neither does Mr. Jamessen's posts or Carl I. Hagen's posts that the Government can ignore what has been the critical objections of the majority, and the majority in this case constitute the Labour Party, the Right and the Socialist Left Party. It is possible that the sidings can be a comfort, but the parliamentary responsibility of the Government towards Stortinget, the responsibility for information towards Stortinget, the responsibility for office towards Stortinget, is clear. The Prime Minister has today bowed down to it, in my opinion somewhat contrary to what he signaled in his post before Christmas last year, and today's version is preferable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e916	The most important thing in this case, according to SV's opinion, is not fine wording in relation to jus and the notes that the Government might have had as a basis when they were to make their proposition to the Storting on the merger of Telia and Telenor. What is essential for SV is whether the assessments made by the Government of a legal nature should affect their judgement when recommending a merger, or a merger between Telia and Telenor. What we know about the matter now, and which has emerged in retrospect, is that there can be great question marks as to whether it was at all the basis for a merger of the two companies, because when the story is to be written, there is a story of struggle almost said in all areas along the way. Therefore, the SV's main criticism of the Government and of the proposition we received is that it did not give a proper impression of the climate that is absolutely necessary to merge two modern knowledge companies, because then one prerequisite must be to agree on a business idea. Our husband in the Transport Committee, Inge Myrvoll, was concerned about one of the things that eventually led the merger to fail, namely that the issue of location of essential areas in the company was not settled. He said it like this: ‘Now the same majority – with a shoulder draw – adopts a merger that is not decided, neither in terms of management nor activity, e.g. location of activities such as the Internet, mobile telephony and satellite technology.’» That was the heart of the matter. We now know in retrospect that the government did not find it appropriate at this point to include the proposition, says the Prime Minister had now been an advantage that stood there. If this had been taken into account, namely that it was not only appropriateness that decided the location, but disagreement and the conflict between the companies, the Stortinget had come to the fore that the basis for a cooperation that must be present if two companies were to be successfully merged could be put into a large question mark. These were the more people in the big debate who questioned – whether it was such that the equivalence, which was a prerequisite for this merger to be settled, was actually present. Jorunn Ringstad from the Center Party also asked questions about it. This was also a matter that the Workers' Party and the government wrote directly about in the setting to make sure that the equivalence was present. That assessment would have been different if the Storting had at that time known what is known today about the climate between the parties. Why is this important? It is because it is essential to have the skills jobs related to mobile telephony located in Norway. Telenor has been at the forefront of this. What the government added up to, and the description that it was added up to, was taking chances at just this point. We now know the rest of the story too, and it is marked by a fight about small and large until the agreement was signed overtime. The crucial question that the Government should have raised at a much earlier time is: Should Telenor spend more time fighting for a merger with Telia when there is so much disagreement about what will be the basis for the cooperation? There are many in the debate who have said that this merger has fallen has meant that perhaps NOK 40-50 billion have been lost. It's an estimated added value of two successful merged companies. But the value of two companies to be merged, which fight all the time and at all levels, is probably less than the value of the companies initially. The loss that Telenor, who has been a very successful state owned company, has suffered is the wasted time that all the heads of Telenor have spent on a merger that the Storting and Government at that time should have had great counter-conceptions to if it had the future ahead. The majority of the population concludes that there should have been a greater insight into this. We are concerned that some of the things that might have dampened the government's own critical assessment was what I have previously called taboo fog, namely that they knew that there was great sympathy among the majority of the population for this that one would not dare to put the matter forward, or think of the critical thoughts that should have been thought in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e936	The government submitted St.prp. No 58 for 1998-1999 concerning the merger of Telenor AS and Telia AB on 16 April last year. In the big debate, I said that the merger opened up to large and exciting industrial policy perspectives. I am still convinced that a merger of Telia and Telenor was an industrially very good and correct idea. The Committee expresses its disappointment at the failure of the merger. Let me first make it clear that I share this disappointment most. It is with great interest that I have read the Committee's position on the Prime Minister's statement on the basis of interrupting the work of merging Telenor and Telia. It is always the Storting itself that determines how much material it needs and will have in one case. So even though the Norwegian proposition on the aggregation of Telenor AS and Telia AB was more extensive and rich than the Swedish one, the Stortinget itself determines how much material it needs and wants in one case. I therefore take the criticism from the committee majority inwards, and accept that the Storting believes that some points should have been better illuminated in the proposition. The Prime Minister has addressed in his statement information on the voting rights rules and the problem of location of business areas. I would like to come back to this, but I would first like to make a few comments on the concept of'responsive parties', to which the majority of the committee has referred. In my opinion, a counter-party is not an opponent, but a counterparty you meet and negotiate with to create the necessary clarifications. In Telia-Telenor there were four parties. In addition to the two departments of ownership, the companies Telia and Telenor themselves took the initiative and conducted the first negotiations, and were part of the negotiations until we reached the target on 19 October. Telenor AS and Telia AB are independent limited liability companies and have been treated under the share law. The National Auditorate was in the initial phase of the negotiations, and will eventually control the Constitutional Management of the Council of State in relation to the fact that Telenor AS is a limited liability company. Practical consultation arrangements have been found with the management and management of the company in the process of merging for two years. The other area I want to highlight is the interpretation by the majority of the following opinion from the open hearing, where I, among other things, said: «I would like to remind you that when we had signed the agreement per. October 19th, we thought we were on target. Then the owners left the track. Then the Swedish Minister for Economic Affairs and the Norwegian Minister for Transport would like to thank him in that part of the phase. It was entrusted to a professional board and management to continue the work.» The majority say about this statement that: ‘if this opinion is adequate for the further follow-up work’... ‘it is a mere transfer of office, both in relation to the problems, among other things, the localisation issue throughout the process, and in relation to the large values covered by the merger’. My statement was not meant as a signal of inactivity either by my owner or by the Swedish owner, but as an expression of respect for a professional management and a professional board that had the powers of a limited liability company’s board under the law in force and also in line with the shareholder agreement entered into. I record that my assessment is covered by minority comments on this issue. The opinion is from my point of view a somewhat popular way of describing the relationship between the owners and the board of a limited liability company. After the merger was a reality on 19 October, and the board of directors and management were in place, the board of directors, together with the management of the company, assumed the day-to-day and ongoing operational responsibilities of the company. The owners had clarified their obligations, responsibilities and rights through the shareholder agreement, in addition to ordinary share law. According to the share law, the owners can otherwise only instruct the company at the general meeting, or also replace the board if they are dissatisfied. The Ministry had just put in place good practices to ensure the necessary contact with the company’s management and administration within these frameworks. During the whole period, even after 19 October 1999, there was good and ongoing contact between the ministry and the Norwegian members of the board, and between the department and the director Jan Åke Kark, both in meetings and in other ways. Thus, the Ministry was well aware that the location case would appear on the board of the board relatively quickly after the association. However, this matter was not resolved at the meeting of the Management Board on 8 December. When this happened, the Norwegian members of the board acted in line with the agreement, as the protocol was submitted to Stortinget. The majority of the committee points out that questions can be asked about the Government's strategy or lack of strategy in the days before an agreement was reached on the dissolution of the company. An overall committee emphasises in the preamble that both parties to a merger: ‘see advantages and have a common vision and willingness to achieve the same objective. It must include a common willingness to solve outstanding problems’. The government’s strategy in the days after 8 December was based on a willingness to take responsibility for seeking a solution to the very difficult cooperation problems that had become clear to all – in close cooperation and consultation with the Norwegian board members. Voluntary dissolution, which requires the agreement of the partners, was an early option. It was also important for the owners to try to see if there could be any possibility of continuing to work for the newly established company, in order to achieve the common objectives that both the two governments and the two companies had worked for a long time and to which the two national Parliaments had joined – and on which we were contractually bound. In the first days after the Governing Board meeting on 8 December, Norwegian board members also had alternative strategies for voluntary dissolution. However, when it turned out that on the Swedish side, there was no willingness to comply with the shareholder agreement and to comply with the voting rules, neither would or could we go further with the merger. It was then that the basis of the agreement – equivalence and not acquisition – was lost. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that it is critical that the proposal itself did not explain that the company's board of directors could take valid decisions in breach of the shareholder agreement and that the voting rules as they are designed could not be incorporated into the statutes. The majority also believe that point 9.8 of the shareholder agreement on implementation should be more problematic and elaborated in the proposition. I have previously, both in the hearing and in response to written questions, explained the Government's understanding of these questions, and why they were not included in the proposition. But as I underlined in the introduction, the Storting itself determines how much material it needs and will have in one case. When the agreement was signed, they were partners and would work towards common objectives in line with the agreement. At this point – just after the signing of the association agreement – it would not be appropriate, in my opinion, to pay great attention to the fact that the agreement had taken into account possible future unfair actions by the contractual partner. I understand from the statement that the majority believes this would be an advantage for the handling of the case, and accept that it is possible to see it this way. The Committee gives new guidance on how problematic it is for the future to want deliberations on staging proposals and communications. For limited liability companies such as: Telenor wants this city to face major challenges and new barriers to what is called business-sensitive and perhaps exchange-sensitive information. This can have a significant economic impact on companies, for example: by the stock exchange introduction. Issues relating to the equity situation and any new needs, issues versus strategic partners and other important business decisions need to be addressed and addressed in a new and expanded way, which needs to be discussed with the company’s bodies. This is now the concrete proposition of the Stortinget on the sub-privatisation of Telenor, which the Government will promote for the Stortinget during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e983	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e986	I noticed that, like the Prime Minister, the Council of State is trying to present it as if there were new and different leads from this committee in relation to information obligations than what has generally been the basis for Storting's work. Let me remind you again that the problem in this case is that there was no problematisation here at all – there was no problematisation at all! And then it's not to add the list particularly loud to say that it could have been useful if you had had a degree of problematisation, and that the Storting rises critically against the fact that it wasn't there. Then I have registered that both the Prime Minister and the Council of State have underlined the close contact with Telenor's Board of Directors, and to the extent that the Norwegian Board of Directors of the merged company, and the Council of State did so in its contribution now. However, in the response from the department it appears that the Norwegian members of the board of directors of the merged company shortly after the management board was treated on 8 December, i.e. on 10 December, gave a unanimous advice that an attempt should be made to dissolve the company. As the Council of State said in its intervention, here was the reality that the Government did not follow that advice. The government continued its efforts to continue the company, which is difficult to see as different from a different strategy, and a strategy that would close the possibility of the recommendation made by the board members over time. So if the government had a strategy, it was obviously contrary to the advice of the board members, and then it is also a contradiction to the consensus that has been pointed out in the past. Or was it that the government didn't have a strategy, but that one sought out, and in that case was it a sensible behavior?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e995	The government had a strategy and also thought that that strategy had to be fully tested before concluding after December 8. The government had and has a self-reliance to test all possibilities. It was contained in the contract documents, it was also in the assignment that the Government had received from Stortinget in connection with the processing of the landfill proposal. In the case of voluntary dissolution, which reached agreement between the Prime Ministers, the parties agreed. It was a challenge to get in place, so it was natural to lift it up at Prime Minister level. I refer there to the statement made by the Prime Minister before Christmas, where the Prime Minister quoted in words what feedback I, as Minister of Transport, had to give to my Swedish colleague per. telephone before agreement was reached between the Prime Ministers. With regard to the advice of the Norwegian board members, I can confirm what Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen just said. They had recommendations for several rounds. In other words, they had a priority among the recommendations. In other words, it was not that the Council was unambiguous and only in one area, but there were several alternatives that the Government tried and used. In the case of new and strong leaders in the vote from the majority, I take note of what the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is now saying, that the Government should not interpret this as extended orders and demands, and I also take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1006	The last thing I can do is -- the list is high, it's always lying, it's not very high for this jump. The Council of State was also in addition to flattening the criticism from the majority of the population that there could be some kind of contradiction between the demands of the Storting on problematic propositions and demands for information in the context of stock exchange introduction. I don't think the Council of State should worry about that. The requirements for the stock exchange introduction are: absolutely all cards on the table – nothing should be hidden. Then I must also say, from eight years of experience in the then Energy and Industry Committee of Storting, which in the 1980s dealt with a series of very problematic issues for state enterprises – Kongsberg Armed Factory and Norsk Jernverk – that there was never any problem with keeping things secret, whether it was desirable for commercial reasons to a state enterprise, and therefore the country's best interests. However, I would like to focus my question to the Council of State now on the following: What Biggest has been concerned about is the problem of not having the location of the management functions, as it is called. This is essentially the mobile device. The proposition and the Prime Minister’s statement show that it was not appropriate to clarify this issue before the final agreement was concluded. The question was, Was this a comprehensive description of the situation, or did the council know more? Did the Council of State have any indication that it was not possible to decide? For there is a difference as to whether it is appropriate or whether it is possible. Now the correct policy of many is defined as the art of the possible. It requires good practice, but it also assumes that it really is that time causes the Swedes to give up. I think there's bad historical evidence for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1017	If you don't mind, I'll give you a cross of thought first. When, in the negotiations, five at twelve, twelve and five at twelve, we were able to pass all our demands, should we not go further, should we not sign, should we not negotiate the process in line with the Storting's demands and wishes? There is some of the debate dynamics in this case. There have been many cuttings – as someone has described it – along the way, but we haven't stranded them. The whole company finally ransacked on one cutting, on December 8, and it knows this hall well. But that cutting was not announced earlier. On the contrary, when we had negotiated everything in place and got it into the association agreement on 30 March, the cut was not there. Kark said as late as late as the end of September: there is no cutting. His understanding is entirely in line with Norwegian understanding. After December 8th, someone announced that it was a cut. It was never signaled on any level. So I would like to take inwards that this with secret information of course can be notified to both the Stortinget and a committee in the closed meeting. We'll do that. But what is to be investigated in a proposition about large corporations in the billions class is still, in my view, very much problematic in the attitude that we now have to deal with. The mobile device was not on the owner's side any problem until 30 March. This was a business strategy that the companies had undertaken to clarify under the January Memorandum of Understanding. Here is the right term given in the hearing: the owners put pressure on the companies to clarify it, but the business strategy was left to the companies to find clarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1028	It's starting to develop into a special situation. While the Prime Minister has made some confessions today, the Minister of Transport has no understanding. He gets a specific, direct question from the representative Per-Kristian Foss: Is it comprehensive when the proposition states that it is not appropriate to locate the head office of the business units? He's not answering. This has been a central issue, for it has nothing to do with appropriateness. They had negotiated it, you had not come forward, you had not succeeded, but it says: it was not appropriate. In other words, it's an information that's obfuscating. He did not answer the question. That's why I repeat this: is this a comprehensive description? Then I go on, because he says about the criticism that's traveled: it's possible to see it like this. We do not ask if it is possible to see it this way, but if the Council of State now sees it this way, if he has acknowledged that he should have seen it this way. To quote from the hearing 14 days ago: «In other words, when we presented the breadth of the matter, I think that we can still say that that was sufficient, that was what was necessary, and that was what was right to present to the Stortinget in order to make a correct decision.» Does the Council of State still see it this way? Or does he see it now that it was not enough, that he had not done what was necessary, and that he had not done it as it was right to present to the Storting? Or does he still see it so that someone can see it this way? Does he see it like this? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1045	There is no doubt that it would have been desirable to have the business areas clarified when the case was submitted to Stortinget in April. It is also stated in the Memorandum of Understanding that Stortinget considered that it was an objective to achieve it. So we came to April, and the question was, are the owners going to take over this part of the clarification or not? Then we found practical solutions to that, as we've explained before, which are contained in the propositions of 4.3.b and 4.5.a. [[i]] So to the question of appropriateness. Is that the situation? It covers the situation as it was when it was presented to Stortinget. My assessment and the government's assessment were that it was not appropriate to let the owners take over the responsibility themselves – neither when it came to determining the number of business lines or the location of business lines – until the directors and the board had put this at the bottom and bottom. Then the representative inge Myrvoll asks if I understand the criticism. Yes, to the most extent. I myself have been in this house for 12 years, and I have been the case rapporteur, among others. on a case of concrete mistrust proposals promoted in this Chamber. In other words, I know the process well, clearly and well. We'll take it inwards, we'll recognize. The Prime Minister on behalf of the Government has told us how we handled the matter, and that we take it inward. I, of course, as a State Council, am covered by the Prime Minister's opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1054	We are still amazed that the Council of State in this matter repeatedly specifies how good this agreement was, while in reality it was a failure. During the open hearing on the Telenor-Telia case, the Council of State answered all twelve questions from the members of the Scientific Committee, including: that this was the wrong interpretation, that is because of a misunderstanding, that it was not understood correctly, and that he disagreed with our conclusions. The council must have also thought at the time that it was quite strange that the Storting could misinterpret and misunderstand a matter then to those degrees. Can we see it this way after the Council of State has now said, that the Council of State believes this was closely linked to the fact that the Stortinge had received insufficient information in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1061	If I have understood the question correctly, I do not believe that Storting has misunderstood anything, I do not believe that Storting has misinterpreted anything. So the quotations from the hearing must be based on specific questions that are related to specific issues. But the Storting's signal to the Government at the processing of the landfill proposal was reasonably clear. We've tried as much as we can, to meet the conditions that had been set, and thus fulfill the Storting's desire to get to this great Nordic merger. We thought we had done the job per. October 19th. When the last things were in place the night of 19 October and our demands had been met, we saw that the basis was there to sign and proceed in the matter. If there was a misunderstanding on my part in the answer to the question, I would like to follow it up, but I have not intended and do not believe that the Storting has made any wrong decision, nor that the Storting has misunderstood anything. What we have said today from the Government is that we take note, we accept, we will follow what the majority of people say in terms of documentation requirements, problematisation requirements in these kinds of matters in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1067	Once again, I need to clarify, as the representative Foss did, that it is not the Stortinget that has added the list higher, it is the Council of State and the Government that have put it down, not to say removed it. So the Council of State says that the cutting was not communicated until December 8. Yes, it is not the problem here that the cut has obviously been present – anyone who has followed this case, must see that the issue of location of the business areas is a particularly difficult question when you look at it through the glasses that the Government obviously had – the problem is that the Council of State had not assured itself of what the Swedish archipelago actually looked like and that the Swedish had the same maps as the Swedish Government's. And wasn't it just the waters around this cutting that BA-HR warned against both March 15th and August 26th, but with which the Stortinget wasn't made familiar? Then several speakers have pointed out that we have obviously had a situation in which the owners, despite having made hard efforts to reach agreement in advance, failed to agree, but where the Government has presented the question of leaving the decision to the board as a purely suitability issue. And then I would like to repeat the question that several of the speakers have raised before me: wouldn't it be a more correct description to say that it has not been possible to reach agreement on location, rather than using the wording that it was not appropriate to make a location? And does the Council agree with the committee that at this point the presentation has not been fully comprehensive, and does he take on the observation that is taking place here from the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1076	Since both Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen and I have been a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee, we are in an interesting area, and I must admit that I would have liked to have seen the waters around the cutting that we are now touching, to the benefit of being further described in the proposition. So it wasn't perceived that this cut was there, but it's clear that we could and should have and should have done it and maybe have thought in those paths as well. With regard to Telenor and the appropriateness, I admit that this could and can be understood so that there was an appropriateness assessment that finally lay at the bottom. But it wasn't like that, it was an assessment of the time available, the role the companies were supposed to play in the process and not least a wish and a clear message from the companies even though this was what they wanted to do, control, business bottom up and based on the necessary decisions also on location, but first one had to determine the number of business lines. I see quite clearly – and it was also my wish earlier – that we should have been given a clarification when it comes to the location of the business areas. But when we arrived at the time when things were to be assessed, we asked the question: Is it appropriate that the owners now take over the clarification and decision on a political basis? And so here was the government's assessment that it wasn't right, it wasn't appropriate to do it. In other words, it was clearly left to the Governing Board, with the aim of making a broad and correct decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1083	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1086	After hearing the last explanation given by the Minister for Transport, it is quite clear that the word ‘appropriate’ in the proposition was not particularly informative. The Minister of Transport then probably understands that there was a real basis for the criticism from the Committee, including on this point. I sat and philosophized quite a lot about the Minister of Transport's answer now. He was in the right words, exactly the same words the Prime Minister used – at least temporarily – but I have to admit that I'm actually a little in doubt if he used the words because he's been told that he was going to use them, or because he's understood what's underneath. With regard to this assessment of when the cuttings occurred, when he saw them, I just want to remind you that the law firm BA-HR has on two occasions tried to point out exactly where the cuttings were. The fact that you also went on the cutting line on 8 December, is another side of the matter, but that the blades were described, I think I have to be reasonably clear. What is important – and I hope that the Minister for Transport is in agreement with that, I expect that he is – is that in the proposition we should have had more supplementary information about the circumstances of the suspension, and that the Minister for Transport on that point was simply wrong. I would like to say that, because in the debate some have used the expression that it is the Storting that defines which information to provide. It is right in the sense that there is a disagreement as to which information is to be provided, of course the Stortinget tells us about it at last. But it is equally clear that when it comes to what the Storting is going to have, the government is not going to be wrong either. It shall, when making the proposition, provide the information which the Storting will need in its proceedings, namely the information needed to see the strength and weaknesses and to obtain the main points of the case submitted. This setting applies, for example, to: is concerned. So at that point, there is a basis for criticism of the Government as a whole, but not least of the Fjærvoll. And when he said that he accepted the criticism, I expect that he has taken it inwards. I'll give him the advice that he takes it inwards without anything more about and but. Every once in a while will lead him into trouble, so I'll think that a advice at that point might come along well. I was really in a pretty good mood about the development of this debate, so I was ready to give the centre government a big concession because I thought it evolved satisfactorily, based on what the Prime Minister said. I'm not going to confront the government parties with Johan J. Jakobsen's posts. I think they're going to be happy about that, and I also think the central government supporters are going to be very happy that the Prime Minister has understood far more of what this is all about than what Johan J. Jakobsen has done. So I think I can enjoy the center administration saying that we can consider Jacobsen's posts completely irrelevant in this context. That's what the Prime Minister recognized, which is the important thing. I think I'm on it. So I'd like to mention another term that someone's used, that you've put the list high. Like several speakers, I would like to stress that the list is there all the time. We've got it torn along, but then the Storting put it back in place, and we've got the government's acceptance that where it is, it's where it's going to be. Otherwise, I notice that someone, among other things. Carl I. Hagen, sees this as a relatively narrow legal issue – it is a misunderstanding – and therefore he has not participated in much of the debate, nor in most of the issues involved. I just want to remind you that agreements have no function other than to clarify realities between the parties. And I'm very surprised at the kind of argument that you couldn't tell the Storting about the problems here, because it could mean distrust of the other party. But it's just a misunderstanding. When faced with a merger negotiation, one must have the will to resolve the problems together and present them openly. The fact that, like the government, you haven't found adequate solutions to it doesn't mean you can't say it publicly. I want to actually say that if you really want to express trust in the other side, you might say publicly that here we haven't found a proper solution, but we trust the other side so much that of course there's no problem. But the government chose the opposite. They were so afraid to tell us about this for the Swedishs that we did not get enough information in this area. So here, I'm afraid you're not quite tough. I would therefore recommend that the Prime Minister's posts be repeated on certain occasions in the College of Government, so that we can get tougher in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1103	There has already been a useful clarification in this debate. I want to grasp what the Prime Minister said in a reply with me earlier today, that his statement before Christmas was not about the relationship between corruption and government, just about the content of the matter. Well, the Prime Minister's statement was also about the relationship between magnificence and government, because even after the merger had taken place, the Prime Minister made some attempt to problem with the Storting whether the agreement had legal and political weaknesses. Even then, at that time, the Prime Minister said that the Government had already received legal opinions in March that there were problems related to this. The majority could not allow the Prime Minister's statement to put a sentence on this matter. The Committee on Transport has drawn different conclusions from the Prime Minister. That's why his statement is about the relationship between government and greatness. It is also the statement that forms the basis for the vote and debate here today. Otherwise, I want to say the same thing that Jan Petersen said about Johan J. Jakobsen's posts. It'll be interesting to know if Einar Steensnæs stays at the same level, i.e. if he repeats what he said to NTB after the setting was available. Then he said: I take note of the criticism, but believe that the government has not acted critically. There is something different than what the Prime Minister has said here today. Otherwise, I have noticed that the Prime Minister and the President of the Progress Party have also talked about other matters. They said that the majority has elevated the list in terms of the government's information obligation towards the Storting. I would like to repeat what Jan Petersen said, that the list has been there all along. What the Storting points to is that the Government has torn the list of the heights it's been lying on. When we heard the Prime Minister's statement before Christmas, one got the impression that one looked at this matter as a relatively small matter and the collapse of the telecommunications as a small failure that one could just say could attach to the protocol with the conclusion that the Swedes were guilty, the Norwegian government had done nothing wrong. The Storting could not accept this. Then we had put the list so low that it would have a major impact on the relationship between big business and government, and I would also believe for the Norwegian community in the years to come. I must remind you that the Government itself has characterized the merger as the greatest industrial matter ever. The value of the merged company has been calculated at DKK 400 billion, and the synergy effect to a location between NOK 45 and NOK 65 billion. So it's not a small thing we're talking about, and it's really important where the list is going to be. Then, as far as the Workers' Party is concerned, I want to make it clear, and we have done so over and over again: the Swedish owners' understanding of the agreement was completely unreasonable. The Workers' Party has consistently supported the Norwegian Government's interpretation and view of the Merger Agreement. That was the interpretation we used to support the agreement. Our criticism is that the Norwegian government has not informed Stortinget well enough about the uncertainty of the agreement. Lack of legal clarity and lack of follow-up by the owners have helped to create the situation we have experienced. It is apparent from the hearing of the Minister for Transport in the Committee that there has always been poor chemistry between the two parties. This was not known for the Storting. The government chose to proceed on an unclear legal basis. It was also not known for Stortinget. It was in the cards that it would be very demanding to merge two such companies. We know from other cases that such processes always create internal resistance. Legal ambiguities and bad relations between the owners open up to those who are opponents and people who want to take care of themselves, get alburom and do just that. And once the Transport Committee has examined the matter thoroughly, we see that that's exactly the picture that's going on. I would like to refer here to the presentation of this by Mr Oddvard Nilsen and Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen in his contributions. There have been criticisms about seven points in the setting. And as there's been a line change about here in the hall today, the main reason for the break was that there was no clarity between the owners about how to distribute the business areas. This was pushed over to the board. The majority agreed with the association because the Government in the proposal decided that the decision on the location of the business lines should be subject to the special voting rights rules. And here you have to remember that according to the contract the head office was already located in Sweden. Therefore, it was the power of Stortinget that there were voting rules that did not override Norwegian interests in the continuation. The basis of the association was that it should be balanced and based on equivalence. This was decided by a majority of the Committee. It's called in the setting: ‘The majority have noted that it is not currently considered appropriate to make a location of’... ‘the business areas. The majority assume that this is done in such a way as to ensure a balance between the activities of the two countries.’» The majority then referred to the Government's proposal, which stipulated that the decision on the location of the business lines should be subject to the special voting rights rules, i.e. at least one shareholder-elected representative from each country had to agree to the decision. Therefore, the Storting must react when it appears that this was not as clear and unambiguous as it was described in the proposition. And when it turns out that the government's own legal advisers had warned of this already in March, it has to be stated that there was no full agreement between the content of the proposition and the reality. The Prime Minister said in his statement to the Stortinget that the problems were solved in the exchange of letters between the Federal Councils of State of Færvoll and Rosengren. The majority of the Committee on Transport does not regard correspondence as such. If you look at the letters, it may look as if the Swedish government council has confirmed the Swedish view instead. At best, the uncertainties continued to prevail. The government knew that the negotiations on the business areas were difficult. They were so difficult that the owners, the two governments, came to the conclusion that they had to be pushed over to the government. They did not agree on how to solve them. The size decision was made in the belief that the special voting rights rules could be used to achieve a balanced location of business areas. This turned out not to hold. I would therefore like to conclude as follows: When the Government realized that it was not possible to agree with the Swedes on the location of the business areas at the level of the owner, the merger negotiations should have been interrupted unless it was certain that there was such a watertight arrangement for dealing with them at the level of the board that it was possible to achieve a balanced solution. It didn't have the government. This is the core of the matter. That's why it was impossible for the Storting to let the Prime Minister's statement, which was free from any self-criticism, put a sentence on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1138	It's a challenge to get the last one on the ordinary list of speakers, and I intended to make a relevant contribution. This is not a unanimous position, there is a majority and a minority, and I therefore think it is most relevant to take a closer look at what is the minority's view. I assume that no one wants to put a lid on the right that the minority also has to express their point of view. Now, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport have commented in a complementary way on different aspects of the Government's handling of the Telia-Telenor case, and in my opinion, both these statements and the minority's comments clearly correspond well to the majority's criticism on several points. I have noticed, for my part, that the majority's opinions and conclusions have different values, from asking critical questions to pointing out issues that, in the majority's view, have not been adequately addressed, and in some areas also spread very strong criticism. This latter applies not least to the extent of the information provided to Stortinget as a basis for decision in this case. Now it is up to the Storting itself to assess the extent of information to be provided and the manner in which it is to be done, as the Prime Minister also expressed it. From this, the Prime Minister has said that he takes the criticism inwards and accepts it. In several of the areas in which the majority has critical objections, the government parties have given answers that make it clear that, for our part, we believe that the criticism is based on assumptions that we believe are unsustainable. When, for example, the majority makes a number that the Minister for Transport, in a written reply, refers to representatives of the Swedish owners as ‘retailing counterparties’, and on the basis of such a use of words, considers that there can be doubt as to the very foundation of the merger and its viability, in our opinion this shows a quite striking eagerness to interpret even ordinary expressions as a sign of difficulties in the negotiations on which the Government should have informed the Stortinget. With regard to the location of the business units, it is agreed that there would have been a great advantage if such issues had been resolved before the conclusion of the association agreement. So it wasn't like that. The majority then consider it critical that these questions were ‘not problematised in the proposition’. But a problematisation in the proposition of possible difficulties of cooperation in the board would then have to be expressed in such a way that this could not, at the same time, cast doubt on the mutual trust and willingness to achieve common objectives upon which such a merger process must be based. The minority of the Committee has also commented on one of the most important issues, namely the possibility for the Board of Directors to take valid decisions contrary to the shareholder agreement. In this context, the majority criticise that the Stortinget was not made aware of such an opportunity, and believe that the Stortinget should also be informed that it was not possible to incorporate the special voting rules into the statutes. This was also commented by the Prime Minister in his statement. Now that you know the consequences of having to take a decision contrary to the shareholder agreement, it is of course not difficult in retrospect to see the benefit of a more comprehensive information to Stortinget at this point. However, I think it must be legitimate to recall that such an outcome was only possible because the Swedish chairman did not want to follow up the agreed agreement. Nor was it possible to get the Swedish Minister of Industry to intervene and instruct his directors to follow the rules of the game as agreed. I think most people will realize that such an outcome was not the most natural starting point for a case preparation for the Storting. The Centre Party, in its comments, has set out its views on the Government's handling of the Telia-Telenor case. We have expressed a different view of several of the objections raised by the majority. However, the criticism of the majority has been given a design that the Government understands and accepts and takes inwards. Thus, this matter was to be cleared of the political bursting power that seemed to be in it at an earlier time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1157	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1160	I think it is interesting that the relationship between government and accumulation has gradually been described as a high-rise competition. I then understand that the Workers' Party, Right and SV see it so that when the Government tears up the list in its work, it is their role to lift the list again. And it's okay if they want the role of raising the list again – and will continue to raise the list again when they think that the government might tear it up. Then at least the government is on the dry side, because someone is ready to put the list in place again all the time. I noticed that, sir. I said there were seven points of criticism by the Government. Yes, it's probably almost a new record to use the expression "critical" in a setting seven times without looking at the end of the setting to find some kind of proposal for a decision – because it's shining with its absence. Well, I guess it's called that you're going to slow down and make a move, but you're not going to jump. Let me also mention that there has been talk of cutting – the Minister for Transport was in the debate instead of in the middle of cutting and dangerous waters. I don't know if Göran Persson and Björn Rosengren like to be referred to as 'a cutting in the sea', but that's what really is. Then I should have been kind enough to put a light on this cutting in advance, so that all of us who do not know the conditions of Sweden and social democracy so well were aware that when you were dealing with that government, there was a cross present. So it's basically been a very interesting debate. I understood Mr. I know he didn't like to draw any parallels to other things, but it's clear that the principles of the relationship between corruption and government are universal and must apply to many things. When it comes to another matter for Stortinget, it is of course difficult to argue on a principle basis, especially in cases where the Riksrevisione e.g. Through thorough work, it is clear that the Storting has received not only inadequate but incorrect information, which is in addition of a kind and a meaning which, if they had arrived at the Storting, would probably have led to a different decision. It is not really claimed in this case that one has used the word ‘appropriate’ instead of another, or the term ‘counterpart’, which is one of the criticisms. It is de minimis in relation to whether the Storting had received incorrect and incorrect information that would probably have resulted in another decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1171	I'm not going to go into all the matters that the speaker after my post earlier this morning has gone into, because in my previous post I have expressed the Government's view on these. Just a brief comment, since the Labour Party's parliamentary leader said that my presentation before Christmas gave the impression that the matter was small and could almost be annexed to the Minutes: If I had perceived the matter as small, I would not have made a nearly record-long statement here in half an hour. And I didn't have the impression that it could only be attached to the protocol, I said on the contrary that I thought it was natural that it went to committee treatment, as it happened. Let me also briefly note that with regard to the legal consideration we received from advisers in a note of March, which has been much mentioned, and which also Jagland was in, the warnings they gave were followed up by the ministry and found their clarification through the shareholder agreement and its voting rules. But what we accept from the Government is what the majority is saying, namely that the discussion and the problematisation that was behind this solution – and that one chose it, and that by a note in August, too, another chose to institute some arrangements for contact with the board – should have been presented to the Stortinget. We accept that the bulk of the population means it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1178	The Head of Parliament of the Central Party completely disagreed with the Prime Minister's acceptance of majority criticism in this matter. At least that was what indirectly appeared in his articles. It might have been nice to get an answer as to whether that is how we were supposed to perceive what he said from the pulpit. In the case of the Council of State, he did not see this cutting that he himself mentioned. So this was mentioned by the government's own advisers, and my question to the Council of State is: At what time was the radar switched off? This government eats camels both for lunch, for dinner and for evening. It's actually become the new form of insurance cost here to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1185	As I was challenged by the last speaker, I just want to emphasise further what Einar Steensnæs said in his post, namely that in this case there is a majority position and a minority position. As the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, I reserve the right to support the comments made by the centre fraction of the Committee on Transport in the vote. One thing is that we accept that it is the Storting that sets the norm and the template for information and problematisation by the Government, but I will receive it if it is such that one in Stortinget should be charged because one chooses to stand on the views and arguments of one's own party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1191	Since I was the one who triggered this debate by mentioning Johan J. Jakobsen as I did, I would like to stress the following: The point is that in this matter the majority and the Government are now agreeing. That's the heart of the matter. That's why the position Jacobsen stood for, a minority position that the central government's supporters must be very happy not to be shared by the government's representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1196	Yes, and further, as regards the quotation of several speakers mentioned on page 11 of the election, the Prime Minister has the impression that, in a contractual relationship where the Storting only has the choice to say yes or no, it should apply to disclosure standards other than in other cases, it must be stated that this is not the case – of course. It's like the Prime Minister said, no excuse, and you don't accept a lower list -- to use an expression that's later used in the debate -- in this kind of contract case than in other cases. I want to end with a quote that I think is unusually good, namely: ‘It is the certainty that the Storting has all the information — and correct information — in one case, which enables the Storting to make its decision. If we had a system in which the Storting could not initially take it as a matter of course that all the information was provided, but that the Storting had to go through all the information and carry out its own investigations – even doing almost an examination to be convinced that all the information was available – the relationship between magnification and government would change, yes, our entire system of governance would change.” This was said by Carl I. Hagen in 1985. It is a very good principle applied in all matters at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1208	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1211	First, thank you to Per-Kristian Foss for quoting from a very wise post I've kept before, which I stand firm on, but which Per-Kristian Foss has not understood. Jan Petersen said that the government and the majority agreed on this matter. I have also followed the debate relatively closely, and at least I feel compelled to say something about how I have perceived it. The Prime Minister has, as I have understood, accepted and acknowledged that the majority has presented a criticism. He has not declared that he agrees with the criticism, and he has not declared that the criticism is or was justified. Admitting and accepting that the majority believes that something has been critical is something quite different than what Jan Petersen tried to pretend in his last post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1218	Jan Petersen has also had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1221	I'm afraid this was an article that belongs in the Jakobsen class. The Prime Minister has been very clear in what he has said, and that is satisfactory. I understand that Carl I. Hagen needs to get into the debate, but unfortunately. That is not the real debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1228	Of course, it is possible to clarify this. If the Prime Minister believes that the criticism is unjustified and that he only takes note of it, he can come up and clarify it from the pulpit. I have assumed that he also takes the criticism a notam because he sees that there is a content of the criticism that it is right to live up to. If he means the opposite, I assume he says it from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1233	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1926]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1247	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1256	The Committee agrees with the proposers that it is important that public funds allocated to culture be managed and allocated to cultural life in the most efficient way possible and with the lowest possible administrative costs. The Committee also agrees that it is important for cultural life to be able to obtain a simple overview of the aid schemes in place and that applications for support and reporting on the use of funds are as simple as possible. The Committee agrees that there may be a significant potential for efficiency and coordination in several areas, but the premise for the proposal in Document No. 8:6 is not the solution. That is why the Committee does not agree with the proposal presented. The Committee considers that the Storting should have overall responsibility for allowing people throughout the country to participate in cultural activities themselves and cultural experiences through gallery visits, operas, theatres, concerts, etc. These are offers for which each municipality in Norway cannot take sole economic and artistic responsibility, and it is therefore important that we have support and support schemes that enable cultural work to be built up and carried out at a high level in all parts of the country. There is no disagreement that the widest possible share of the resources allocated to culture should go to culture and not to administration. However, those who have followed through the years in the development of the cultural policy of the Progress Party – or lack of such – have little faith that it is the consideration of culture as the basis for the proposal. For there is one party that is still using its verbal grandeur against grants for cultural purposes, yes, it is the Advance Party. When the party now proposes that all the essentials of the state cultural resources be channelled over the municipal budgets, it is appropriate to recall that the leading spokespersons of the Progress Party in the Stortinget attack ‘unresponsible’ municipal politicians who use taxpayers’ money for cultural purposes on each occasion. Then it is not difficult to imagine that the proposed conversion in the next round would lead to the funds intended for culture, by the People's Party's elected representatives being demanded to be redisposed to hospitals, lower taxes — anything but culture. The reason for this is that the proposal requires that state funds for culture and cultural memory protection be channelled directly to the municipalities without State commitments on the use of money. Culture is a comprehensive concept. Culture shall be cross-sectoral and borderless. To bind all cultural activities to one department would be to set limits on culture, and that right would not help. The right believes that culture should have its natural place in all activities both domestically and abroad. But that does not mean that we reject the rational efficiency of administrative expenses. As much culture as possible with least bureaucracy, that's how we want it. So that's why we went. in order to channel government funds to non-governmental organisations directly through the established organisational system and not detour through counties and municipalities, as the Progress Party agreed. I mention this to show that there is a very strong contrast between the different statements that come from the Progress Party on cultural issues. The division of functions between departments and levels of government in the cultural sector that we have today is based on previous decisions based on the recognition of the importance of culture in all areas. A majority in the European Parliament believes it is important to have an overall national cultural policy, and it can only be achieved when the European Parliament takes its responsibility by providing the necessary guidance for the use of national funds in this sector. Society is changing steadily, and we must take responsibility for the fact that national cultural policies are still adapted to the society in which we live. By setting ambitious cultural policy objectives, we will ensure that we are able to stand in the first place culturally. Many of the visions of the Great Britain’s treatment of ‘Culture in the Time’ at the end of the last century are well on the way. Therefore, we appreciate that the Government will present a new overall cultural message with visions at the beginning of this century. Here I assume that the Government advises and Stortinget assesses and decides administrative and functional distributions that can work rationally and cost-effectively. Moreover, it is natural that this issue should be considered in the context of the various key messages in the field of culture, such as those we are currently discussing in the Committee. In the light of the above, the Committee recommends that the proposal in Document No: 8:6 is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1277	Allow me to say that I do not have the full belief that the proposal of the Progress Party that we are dealing with today, on the coordination of public instruments in culture, has the primary objective of making effective use of the funds. When the proposal is based on public funding for culture today, I'm at least suspicious. The Progress Party has no good history of culture. In the case of large amounts of money for culture, if you combine the Ministry of Culture and all the other departments, this will be a very small road project if the money is spent on transport. Therefore, that claim by the Progress Party falls on its own unfairness. In my view, the intention of the proposal from the Progress Party is the possibility of not having to deal with one of the political aspects of the Progress Party, namely culture. In the 2000 budget, the Progress Party had halved the cultural resources, and unfortunately – because we have some budgetary procedures in Stortinget – showed that they were spending the money, and thus they also showed their lack of cultural policy and their lack of holisticity in the field of cultural policy. The proposal that we are discussing today is based on a market-liberalist cultural perception where the individual's wishes and needs are to control the cultural offer – as if you know what each person wants and needs at all times. But the Progress Party says they know that. Already in St.meld. No 61 for 1991-92, 'Culture in the Age', it was decided that cultural policy should be sectoral. This means that many departments, as well as all municipalities and counties, have to take on their own cultural responsibility – they are close to people and know a lot about the need. Of course, the Progress Party did not agree with the cross-sectoral model set out in the «Culture in the Time». But when has the Progress Party ever agreed on or interested in cultural policy? I think this is a proposal that does not show the willingness to get more culture for money, but the willingness to cut down on already very few resources in the cultural sector. In the view of the Workers' Party, culture must focus on quality in the living environment and on creative self-activities, while at the same time taking responsibility for culture in its areas of administration. It is true that the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research takes responsibility for the music schools. It is true that the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the Riksantikvaret and cultural memory protection. It is also true that the various departments take responsibility for their disciplines in order to preserve their own history. The functional distribution between municipalities, states and states is another question that I'm not going to address here. But I would like to stress that both county municipalities and municipalities carry out important cultural tasks in national cultural policy, although the state must always have a primary responsibility. In fact, I do not understand how the Progress Party dares – in a development where media and communication technologies are increasing – the need for a national cultural policy is increasing. Isn't the Progress Party in this area afraid that the foreign cultural influence will flood our country when we have no safe reason to stand on national cultural governance? Cultural policy must always be corrective to the commercial entertainment industry, through which we can ensure quality and accessibility for all. A culturally hostile party that the Progress Party will make a small country like Norway, as a small language area as we are, open to all kinds of influence from abroad without having the cultural policy awareness that a small country must always have. This must be entirely contrary to the programme of the Progress Party in the field of the influence of foreign cultural policy. But I think the Progress Party is so suspended in saving money and in not showing up its own bad cultural policy that they use any suggestions to prevent us from having a good cultural policy in this country. The working party strongly rejects this Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1303	The Progress Party has a fundamental view that culture should be free of political governance as far as possible. Culture must be based on volunteering and personal commitment, so that individuals with imagination and creativity can create something new. The role of the State in this process should be limited to maintaining the legal framework for individual choices. The Progress Party believes that political target management of cultural life, as practised today, will lead to passivity and stagnation. The Advance Party believed that the Right Party too had confidence in the individual, and that the Workers' Party would leave the past ahead and now would look forward. The party of progress says that we as parties don't know what the individual wants in terms of culture, but we let the individual choose for himself, as opposed to, among other things. The working party. Today, the public grants large amounts of money to culture. In order to ensure efficient use of these resources, it is essential that funds be allocated so as to minimise the level of public administration at the time of distribution and that users of these resources are able to find out the arrangements without the use of much time and resources. If this is done, in the view of the Progress Party, a significantly more efficient use of resources will be achieved, both by public authorities awarding funds and by those who are users of the different schemes. All parties want public cultural resources to be managed as efficiently as possible, but it is their choice as to how this should be done that separates the Progress Party from the other parties. The Party wishes to transfer the financial resources directly to the municipalities so that they can be managed more closely. Having three levels of administration means no simplification. The most important thing must be that the instrument is as close to the users as possible. In most cases it will be the municipality or organisation. In addition, there must be no bindings or leads for the use of the money. Thus, each individual with his or her professional and local skills can best distribute and manage taxpayers' money for the benefit of the community. In order to obtain an effective use of Norway’s cultural resources, it is important to achieve a high level of coordination of instruments in the State sector and better coordination between the State, municipal and county sectors. There are circumstances that might indicate that this is not the case today. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this must be carried out as soon as possible, so that the resources allocated to culture fall to culture and do not go into play through unnecessary public administration and poor coordination. It will then be possible to achieve that a greater proportion of what is granted to culture goes directly to user-related projects instead of to administration. Effective resource use is a priority issue. The Progress Party is of the opinion that the more culture you manage and the more involved in this sector, the more culture you get. The Ministry of Culture is responsible for most of the state organisation and funding of the cultural sector. However, large amounts of the State budget are also allocated through the budgets of the other departments, which means that cultural actors have difficulties in getting an overview of the various instruments. Today, one third of the funds allocated to culture are allocated to departments other than the Ministry of Culture. When cultural economic instruments are spread across so many departments, there is good reason to believe that there is not a good enough overview of the overall use of instruments, and that such dissemination can lead to a double bureaucracy, without having considered whether this is appropriate and whether it serves culture. An over-organised cultural bureaucracy leads, first, to poor use of resources by the State of the resources allocated to this purpose. But what's even worse is that this organization brings resource-intensive and cost-intensive processes from those cultural bodies that want to make use of these kinds of public schemes. Many associations, museums and public services must therefore use a substantial part of their resources for unnecessary administration. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the Storting must actively contribute to the overall efficient use of resources between the different levels of government. Today, all three levels of government are committed to cultural work. The Progress Party believes that efforts must be made here to rationalise and become more critical of which levels of government should be involved in this work. The public sector tool in the cultural sector must be as close as possible to users. It is also necessary to ensure that the important decisions relating to these instruments are taken as closely as possible to users, so that decision-makers can be more easily held accountable to users. This means that the main public funds to be used for cultural life and cultural memory protection must be channelled directly to the local government sector or organisations, without any State commitment to their use. In this way, each municipality can decide for itself what is important for its inhabitants. By entrusting the main decision-making processes to them, there will be an increased discussion of cultural policy locally in each municipality and an increased involvement around it. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1324	Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1327	Document No 8:6 from the representatives Per Sandberg and Per Roar Bredvold point out that the means of action before culture are spread across several departments, and furthermore that all three levels of government are committed before cultural work. The Christian People's Party agrees that it is important that the public promises of culture be managed as effectively as possible, and here we can show that this is one of the Government's stated goals in St. prp. No 1 for 1999-2000. Document No The 8 proposal expresses a desire for extensive coordination of public services in the field of culture. The Christian People's Party will still stand on the main goal, cf. Inner. S. No 115 for 1992-93, a goal which states that cultural policy should be cross-sectoral and that the cultural aspect must be integrated into social policy in general. In other words, several departments have to take part in this work, including the different levels of administration. We can see that the division of responsibilities and responsibilities between departments in the field of culture has been incorporated over time, and that this distribution has emerged after assessments and evaluations. In the same way that the division of functions between departments has grown up over time, the division of functions between the State, the county and the municipality has also grown up and been established in accordance with superior documents, including documents. the reference message ‘Culture in the Time’. With several departments and several levels of government committed before cultural work, it is important that the objective of efficient management of funds is maintained. The Christian People's Party points out that the Committee has several major issues in the field of culture, and a superior cultural message is to be submitted by the Government. The Christian People's Party believes that it is natural for the Committee to discuss the coordination of public instruments before culture in relation to these matters. Function distribution between levels of government will also be the subject of work, and the Christian People's Party will participate in this debate. I would like to remind you that voluntary organisations should have their say. In St. prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, it says that the Government should set up an inter-ministerial coordinating body, such as the shall consider simplifications of codes of conduct for voluntary organisations. The government will report on this during the year 2000. We will wait for the result of this work. The Christian People's Party does not support the presentation presented by the representatives Sandberg and Bredvold in Document No. 8:6.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1344	There is a broad political consensus that cultural policy should have a cross-sectoral character. If this is to become something more than speech, it requires cultural tasks to be put on the agenda and applied for in a number of social areas and at all levels of government. I am pleased that the majority of the committee emphasises this precisely. In my opinion, the need for a national cultural policy is stronger than ever. This is due to major societal changes that we are undergoing, including: as a result of developments in media and communication technologies. An offensive cultural policy is a necessary corrective and complementary to the commercial entertainment industry, in order to ensure quality and accessibility and to safeguard our common values and the Norwegian language. For a small country and a small language area such as Norway, it is essential to find good answers to the cultural policy challenges facing us from globalisation and the development of new media. Keeping the language alive is a fundamental prerequisite for the development and dissemination of our culture. Art and cultural heritage is the common ownership of the people. Common values and languages form the basis for a common identity. We have an obligation to take care of this. It must take place within a common framework, based on a national cultural policy. If a proposal that all the essential public funds used for cultural purposes were to be channelled directly to the municipal sector, it would be very difficult to pursue just a national cultural policy. But then, of course, a national cultural policy does not stand in any contrast to wanting to emphasise just the strengthening of local cultural work. I want to get more focus on the importance of local cultural life. Life is lived locally. It is local that we must create the foundation of a living cultural life. And that is why I am also pleased that we now have two new support schemes in place – one for sporting activities, where the appropriations are already in place, and the other for voluntary organisations, where funds will be put in place in the revised national budget. It is worrying that many municipalities do not find it possible to prioritise cultural activities in the same way as before. A pressed community economy, I think, is a more important explanation factor than a lack of understanding. The strengthened local economy is therefore essential to ensure a thriving local cultural life in the future. I am very concerned with coordination and the best possible use of resources in the cultural sector. The lack of institutions and instruments in the field of culture is in many ways a strength. However, I believe that the time has come for a certain consolidation. It is fully possible to consolidate without centralizing, as we do, among other things. points out in the big news about archives, libraries and museums, which were presented before Christmas, and which is now being treated in Stortinget. We will have plenty of opportunity to come back to these questions in different contexts here in this room in the future. I look forward to it. But the broad review will be given in connection with the new overall cultural message to be presented, which we are already working on in my department. And that, I also have to stress, is a process that I definitely look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1361	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1364	I must admit that I am a little afraid when I hear the other speakers here and the lack of trust in the individual as they seem to have. By that I believe that it may well not be right that we are parties – as I understand the other parties – who should decide what is good or bad culture for the individual people out in the individual municipality, in the individual organisation, in the individual sports team, in each specialist organisation, etc. It must be the individual himself who has the best knowledge of what he or she wants. Some talk about simplification, and that's exactly what the Progress Party wants, what the Christian People's Party said – simplification, and trust in the individual. The Labour Party also talked about freedom, and said that the Progress Party was afraid of it. But that is exactly what the Progress Party wants – we want freedom. So the council says, "Life is lived locally." That's exactly what the Progress Party says: Life is lived locally, that's where the decisions are to be made, where life is lived – locally. We need a lot of coordination, it needs to be made simple, it needs to be done effectively, for the best of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1372	I get a little tempted when the representative from the Progress Party comes and talks about trust in individuals and their choices. In fact, if a single person is to have a choice, it must be an offer. And if the offer is to come from the market forces, we know exactly what the offer is. The Labour Party and all the other parties in this Chamber know that people choose, but they choose something, and there is a choice between something that the Cultural Policy of the Advance Party does not give them the opportunity to get. I am very provoked when the Progress Party continues to point out that there is political governance through the cultural policy we base here in the Grand Duchy. Rather, on the contrary, there is a political commitment, so that cultural life gives the individual the opportunity to make the choice. And what the Progress Party is constantly doing by reducing the cultural budgets is they're taking from the individual choice to get culture. And it's also that there should be culture in every city and every village, and then it's a responsibility for municipalities, for counties and for the state to give them an offer. And I would have asked myself that the Progress Party is constantly stressing the political governance of culture. There is a lack of financial resources that is the problem in Culture-Norway, not the political governance of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1379	I'm going to be pretty short. I will entirely join the statements that Grethe Fossum of the Workers' Party now made. We fully share the view that cultural life through our allocations gives the choices that individual people should make use of. There will be no cultural offer if each one is to be dependent on creating it on its own. That's not possible. Life is lived locally, but it's not just living in the local room. You have to have other alternatives. Should a gallery have a high artistic quality, a few theatre performances, an opera performance, have a beautiful public space outside? If we are to have all this, yes, then it must be money, and that is money that must be granted and managed from here. Then it's freedom, then it's choice, and then it's living culture locally. And people can choose between what's being built up, by taking overall responsibility for the fact that there's a living cultural life in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1386	Unfortunately, I have not been able to join the debate, as I have been on cultural exchange with a Mongolian missionary, on Grand. But at least I have noticed what has been said by the last representatives, and in particular the last representative from the Right, who is trying to present it as that the offer should be presented before the demand is there. And that's the opposite of what the right really stands for. Of course, an offer is put in place after it is requested, as opposed to what the Progress Party calls political governance. And that's exactly what's the point. Here there is a large political majority who want to establish a cultural offer that nobody knows whether it is necessary. And so here it's going to spend billions of dollars on just that, to reach a narrow group of culturally interested people. I'm not going to pull up an opera bat. Then it's claimed by the representative Fossum that there's so little money being spent on culture. Yes, but in the vote on the proposal, the representatives have stated how much money we spend. It grants SEK 4.9 billion for culture and cultural protection over the state budget. And then the question is – and it will be a challenge for the Minister of Culture when the Culture Communication comes: How much of the SEK 4.9 billion allocated to the municipalities do the municipalities themselves manage? There are criteria from the Storting, the Government, the state, for how to use the $4.9 billion. That's the point. Then, as the municipalities lose control of cultural resources, it becomes a management from a superior body. It's big business and government that decides where the municipalities are going to use their cultural resources. Over the county budgets, 1 billion is spent. We have also raised the number of billions spent from other departments to cultural resources – an over-management. Therefore, one does not reach out in relation to demand, the individual and the wishes there, which many are now trying to be concerned with. Finally, I would like to mention something that I found in an article in Denmark’s Politics – it’s very interesting, we like to compare ourselves with the rest of Europe in terms of culture. Okay, then we're going to try it in this context. So there's a project that means that the state, the government, now makes agreements with municipalities and county councils that they get their own culture frameworks, which they themselves get to offer to their inhabitants in each region, the individual municipality and the individual state. It is in that direction that the Progress Party also wants to move in relation to our proposal, but it is therefore not interested in the Stortinget, I register. That is regrettable, but at least the Progress Party has tried. It is also interesting to note that the government in this case is moving towards its intentions in relation to what it wanted when it was talking about funds for voluntary teams and organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1399	What got me to take the floor was this discussion of the topic of supply and demand. I think that supply can and should be created as an alternative to today's smooth, Anglo-American and through-commercial mass culture. Without options, there are no special options to talk about, as things get more or less the same. Coordination will all have – reasonable use of resources, as it is called. But it's not quite easy to get into it all in one place when you want at the same time a lack and organisational democracy, as well as personal freedom. I think it might be a misinterpretation on the part of the Progress Party if they believe that national cultural policies are synonymous with having an address or administrative portal for users. I think it's good that culture exists in different budget areas, and that culture is far-reaching and permeates society independently of individual budget chapters and geographical boundaries, because culture is actually a growing condition for the nation's development in a broad sense. All of us are probably certain that we want to have the least possible bureaucracy. And in the practical cultural work locally, of which I myself am a part, I think it's important to track enthusiasts and organizations to volunteer. There is a problem today with all this project funding, with all the reporting, target management, etc., it takes energy out or people. It would be easier and easier in all ways to upgrade the basic support and have less project funding. I hope that the big message that comes can also discuss that phenomenon, for example. well-established and serious festivals need to search for 10-12-14 public services, partly with overlapping functional areas, to scrape together into a sustainable budget. I didn't think more, and I didn't intend to spend that much time either. Of course, I would like to agree to reject this proposal for a document, because I believe that the premise for the proposal is not a solution, but partly a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1418	Per Roar Bredvold has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1421	To the representative Stolt-Nielsen from the Right and others regarding supply and demand: In my home municipality, which is relatively similar to other municipalities, you have an amateur theater that has the capacity for one setup this year. They have 5-6 performances of this, with full houses. When the National Theatre comes, you might be able to pick up half the hall once. What is a good culture, and a culture that they want to live on the ground – those who live by the lo-called? Yesterday, in the Questionnaire, I took up support for a school corps that lacked NOK 17 344 to balance it, so it was not to be closed down. What is most important at that point – money for school music, or that, for example, The National Theatre is coming to visit? I'm just asking. Life is lived locally!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1430	I must almost ask the question as to whether those who participate in the debate have taken the time to read the proposal at all, because it is presented here as if the proposal implies that all the State cultural media should cease to exist. That's obviously wrong. It is also wrong that we should now take everything that is called cultural means and transfer it to the municipalities and organisations. What we're writing in the proposal is: ‘In the case of State instruments, they should be as low as cost-intensive and as simple as possible. The State should not itself administer and allocate these funds, but transfer them directly to each municipality.’ And so forth in the proposal: ‘This means that the principal public funds to be used for cultural life and cultural memory protection must be channelled directly to the local government sector or organisations...’ The ‘most important’ – that is what we are asking for in this proposal. Of all the billions that we have documented used for culture, how much portion is channeled into the organization life and municipalities in such a way that they themselves have to dispose of the funds? It will be the challenge of the Government and the Minister of Culture. I think we might have had another debate here today too, because I'm afraid that the majority – and not just the majority, but up to 80-90 pst. – of the funds allocated to the municipalities and organisations, there are criteria and commitments to ensure that the funds have to be used in a specific way. And then we have a problem. With regard to what I referred to instead of politics, I also want to quote some of what the chairman of the cultural committee in Fredericia says – that is, the region: "We have established a cooperation that we are actively trying to develop without the Ministry. ‘... Yeah, that's the point. It must then be possible to work together without commitment to the use of the funds. It must be in everyone's interest that we get the most out of the cultural resources we use. So to another thing that I was so much involved in my previous post, the bureaucracy, which also the representative from the Right, Hallgrim Berg, was inside. How much just disappears in bureaucracy, with reporting, etc.? It is also a challenge that I think the Minister of Culture should take on board further in the work on the communication of culture. I think we'll also get some big, surprising numbers here. That's not how we go around imagining, that all the means we use create commitment and culture around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1454	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1470	The background to this interview is the answer given by the Council of State to my question for a written answer on 26 November last year. On this question I took up the regrettable fact that a patient from my home country had been taxed NOK 35,000, because his employer had paid him a hip replacement at a private clinic. Even the well-used argument that he took the place of another in a public hospital was thus not present. The background to this offer from the employer was, as we understand, public health queues in order to have the operation carried out. By paying out of line for one of its employees, the society saved at least 0.5 million. SEK in sick pay, and the worker returned to productive work several months earlier than would otherwise have been the case. What the enterprise and society served on this both business and socio-economic is significant, as well as the human suffering being severely curtailed. The patient had severe pain in addition to his incapacity for work. Thus, the ‘reward’ from the State, by the tax authorities, was a tax bill of NOK 35000. The whole thing is simply comical, says the reinstated patient. That's good there's mood in the population. In the decision-making bodies around the Norwegian health care system, it seems that neither humor nor mercy nor arithmetic are particularly highly developed. It is part of the picture that since 1997, as a sample scheme in some counties, it has been possible to use the resources of the social security system to buy medical treatment. However, the head of social security in the municipality concerned informed Hamar Arbeiderblad that this operation was too extensive to be covered by this sample scheme. Public morality must be that if the plague is not very significant, not particularly incapacitating and not very painful, you can buy yourself out of the public health queue with public money. But of course, the consideration of patients is not among the criteria for performing even these simplified interventions. Indeed, the social security system is careful to stress that this is an offer and no right. The introduction of this test system in 1997 must nevertheless be able to be taken into account for a certain recognition that the problems in the Norwegian health system cannot be solved exclusively by traditional measures. The purchase by social security agencies of public and private hospital operations reduced the waiting time for an average of two months in 1999. Now, it is not really said how long the two months are in relation to the total waiting time, but at least two months is a significant time saving for both the employer, the public and the suffering patient. The drugstore spent 35 million dollars. kr for the purchase of these healthcare last year and – let’s stick to it – one of the directors of the Swedish National Agency for Strygde, emphasizes to NTB that this is a ‘very good store’. The 35 million. For kr gave a saving of 100 million. kr. For the current year, money has been allocated so that 6 000 sick people can receive similar offers, while the need is approx. 9000 operations. Who will receive the offer, and who will not receive the offer, is told nothing about – except what I have previously referred to, that the damage must not be too extensive. In addition, when the offer is a ‘very good store’, as it is so beautiful, it could be interesting to know why a whole 3,000 patients are still not offered. But the Social Security Act is irreconcilable: ‘The offer is there for as long as there is money and for as long as hospitals have the capacity to remove patients without affecting normal operation.’ This must of course be the case, but we should then consider whether the framework should not be extended. It is also called from the Rikstrygdeverket: ‘Appropriations have so far been much less than demand. Therefore, the first ‘mølla’ to have completed the operation are those who have come to the ‘mølla’.’ And you add: ‘The purchase of operations by the social security system has so far been very randomly distributed, often based on whether the patient himself has known about the scheme.’ It's hard to imagine a more crushing verdict all over the bureaucracy that rules in this area. I allow myself once again to remember that according to the same bureaucracy, this is «very good store». Now, the Rikstrygdewerk will ‘implement a fairer distribution of funds according to population density’, but still only for two-thirds of those afflicted. So treatment by population density is the definition of justice by bureaucracy. Why not make a ‘good store’ even better and operate all those in need of treatment immediately and not only with curtailed waiting time. For most people, it is impossible to understand why patients should be treated in this way, and the questions about why it is are in line. Why has there suddenly become the capacity to treat 6,000 patients when the money comes from the Social Security Agency and not from the ordinary health budgets? Why is it a ‘good shop’ for the dry-deathe, but not equivalent to a ‘good shop’ through the usual routines? And why there should be a lack of money reaching 35 million. spent kr saves 100 million. kr, is completely impossible to understand. And all the time, as the underlying premise: the patient's interests and rights are the balancing item in these considerations. The arrogant response of the health and social security bureaucrat is that ‘this is an offer and no right’. I have regularly had my small exchanges with the Minister of Finance about taxes and taxes. Every time I've started with great optimism. That is how far I have always concluded the debate with pessimism. This time, too, is very brave, for once it must be my turn as well. Now I see the possibility that the Minister of Finance will cut through the red tape and with a broad pen assure that the country's finance minister, the chief in charge of our common money household, will not find that there is a cap on a store that brings 100 million. kr into the treasury in the form of savings, while it only charges the same treasury with 35 million. kr. So I do not ask for mercy or concern for the suffering patients, only that the Minister of Finance shows practical craftsmanship in terms of financial accountability on behalf of government finances. I have chosen this approach to the problem to stress that it is not an objective for me whether it is a private or, for that matter, a public employer who pays for the operations. Nor does it mean anything about the employee’s ‘saver’ tax, even how meaningless I think such a term is. If the public health service can solve the problems by hookways about social security settings or whatever it is, it's okay. But there should be a solution that includes all the 9000 patients, not just the 6000 specially informed, possibly after population density as well. And it should – as the funds are given – be a solution not only for those with small or medium-sized plagues. There must not be a solution just for those who can fit in with outpatient treatment. The disorders that require installation must also be taken care of. Since, perhaps even the Minister of Finance – and at least some of the Minister of Finance’s government colleagues – has expressed greater faith in a public effort in health rather than private items, I am willing to be fully relaxed as to whether the queues, sufferings and losses for business and the public can be resolved in one way or another. Some wonder that some people may still have kept the child’s mind on the public’s ability to solve health problems alone, yet I have to be allowed to express myself. I do not think that we will achieve this if we do not let go of private solutions as a complement to the public offer. The companies that will relieve the queues must be allowed to do so without being punished on the purse. Private hospitals, domestic or foreign, must be allowed to get patients back on their feet without undue waiting and unnecessary suffering. The idea that a company that pays to prevent damage, which pays for trim and smoke cloth, must be high-quality and in order, but that the company that will help the one who is so unfortunate to have been ill or injured, is to be reduced and taxed is a hopelessly outdated thinking. At the end of the speech, I would like to refer to the answer given to me by the Minister of Finance on 3 December last year. It was a unique cataloguing of all the problems associated with finding practical solutions, but it was a conclusion that gives a very small light, a very small basis for hope. He says, "Oh, my God. ‘Despite these clear starting points’ – i.e. in a negative direction, from my point of view – ‘I will take a closer look at the issue’. And he says that the scheme is «under ongoing review, and I will address the questions with the Minister of Health and, if necessary, come back to the matter later». The councils have had time in December, Christmas weekend and January both to consult one and the other and to think, so it is with optimism and great excitement that I meet if the thinking process has led to something positive for the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1522	I understand that there are issues about introducing tax exemptions for employers-funded medical treatment. Many will wish for such benefits, and this may help to speed up the reporting of sick workers. This, in turn, may lead to savings in health care expenditure for the public. It is, of course, positive that sick workers receive prompt treatment, but this does not necessarily mean that it is right to have tax exemptions for the employer’s coverage of treatment costs. The principle of equality advocates the taxation of such benefits. The general rule of the Tax Act is that any benefit gained from employment is taxable. Benefits in the form of money, benefits in kind or other financial assistance shall be treated in the same way in this context. For example, if a worker: to cover the costs of an operation at a private clinic, he is better placed than other workers in a similar health situation where the employer does not cover such expenditure on private treatment. There is no difference between whether the employer covers the bill directly or whether he provides the employee with a cash pay supplement to cover it. The amounts, which may be very large, relate to the further coverage of private expenditure and cannot be considered to be related to work. This applies even if the employer’s payment is due to a legitimate interest in getting the employee back to work earlier. He has therefore received an advantage in the sense of the tax law. The benefit of having costs of private treatment covered by the employer is taxed for that reason as if the employer had instead chosen to increase the employee's salary. This implies both taxation of the employee's income and the obligation to pay an employer's contribution to the employer. I would like to stress that this is not a new special rule. On the contrary, this is a very old provision resulting from the general rules of the Tax Code of 1911 on the taxation of labour income. If only taxed wages and salaries were to be paid in cash and not in kind, expenditure coverage, etc., there would be extensive and unfortunate adjustments in wage formation. The employer and the employee could agree that the employee should be paid to a greater extent by the employer covering his private costs instead of paying cash. This is contrary to the idea that the form of remuneration chosen should not be tax-determined. Therefore, as a general rule, an employee who receives a lower cash salary plus additional benefits from the employer must be treated in the same way as an employee who receives a higher cash salary without such additional benefits. The employer’s financial benefits are taxable even if a similar free public-to-one benefit will be tax-free. This also applies to other types of public services, such as: if the employer pays nursery or school places in a private school for the children of employees. There are also examples of tax-free benefits provided by the employer. An example is collective occupational health services, i.e. preventive health measures among employees of an enterprise. There are several reasons for this tax exemption. The provision of occupational health services is very widespread. A desire to prevent health damage and to stimulate a good and healthy working environment. The exemption will normally apply to a smaller amount per. employed, and in addition, there will be problems in valuing the service by taxing it. Therefore, it is natural for employers to pay occupational health services to be in a tax position other than that of employers to cover private health services. Tax exemptions in one area cannot normally justify exemptions in other or related areas. Rather, there is reason to be attuned to such exemption assessments, so that the overall level of the tax exemption does not become too high and to avoid infectious effects. The introduction of tax-free rules to cover private health costs would result in significant tax discrimination between workers. Some workers would be covered by private treatment costs free of tax, while others would have to choose between paying similar treatment with their own taxed funds or waiting in the queue of public health services. Who could benefit from the tax exemption would be determined by the employer's willingness and ability to pay. The employer’s willingness would in turn depend on the employee’s positive position in the labour market and on the importance of the employer. It could soon be an elite selection of workers who would benefit from tax-free employer coverage of private treatment. The health policy priority of who needs the most rapid treatment would be transferred more from health care to private employers. Workers who are most attractive in the labour market would be more likely to benefit from treatment than those who are not in such a situation, regardless of who is most in need of treatment. Tax exemption rules will also stimulate the demand for private health services. Because health resources are scarce — in particular this is the case for qualified personnel — this could help to reduce the level of treatment available in public health services. The rules on tax exemptions would otherwise involve difficult demarcations as to what is to be covered by the exemption, such as: the types of suffering, treatment, etc. which shall fall within the scheme. I would like to draw attention to the fact that taxpayers who have exceptionally high expenditures due to permanent illness or weakness may be entitled to special deductions in income. Furthermore, the tax may be reduced or waived where, because of a particularly serious or long-term illness or for other reasons, it seems disproportionate or disproportionate to maintain the whole tax. In some cases, these rules would result in lower or no tax on the benefit of the employer’s coverage of private institution treatment. I am concerned that most people should be treated for disease and suffering without having to wait too long for relevant treatment. However, in my view, other instruments than the tax system are needed to promote better development in this area. We have a nationwide and permanent public system by allowing social security authorities to purchase private outpatient treatment facilities. This scheme helps to speed up the treatment of sick workers so that they become more healthy and return to work earlier. This is an offer to all workers who have a medical need for the type of treatment covered by the scheme. There is therefore no selection based on the strength of the worker’s position in the labour market. In addition, available capacity is used in the healthcare system, so that the overall health supply is not impaired. The allocation of this scheme was increased in the State budget for 2000. The design of the scheme is, moreover, under ongoing review, and in consultation with the Minister of Health and the Minister of Social Affairs, I would like to consider a further strengthening of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1550	I guess there was nothing else to wait for. Hope broke. I find that December, Christmas and New Year's Eve, and January have not helped the Council of State position in relation to opening up greater levels of private treatment by means of the employer. The Council of State refers to preventive action. Of course, we're happy that it's allowed. This would have been very good if all diseases and accidents could be prevented. But it's not like that. Sickness and accidents hit blindly, and it can hit any one of us. It's genetically dependent, it's hereditary, and we never know which one of us is exposed to an accident when we're in traffic, for example. That's why this similarity principle, that you have to prevent and cover the cost of it, in terms of repairing those who get sick or who are exposed to an accident, is completely meaningless. The biggest accident in the world is being sick in contrast to being healthy. And now, when we're in a situation where we just have to find that the public health service has not been able to solve these problems, it becomes quite incomprehensible to me that you shouldn't be willing to use the tools that can be a complement to the public health service that we're otherwise betting on. Of course, it is an advantage to have an employer who values the employee’s efforts and who has the opportunity to pay out of it. It is also no great disadvantage to have a personal fortune if you are going to get sick. It's unlikely that it's a big inconvenience to make $1 million. kr rather than being ill-adapted. So there's no absolute similarity to being able to deal with the diseases that are more or less at random at risk. It is as the Minister of Finance says in his statement: ‘The health policy priority of who needs the most rapid treatment would be transferred more from public health to private employers.’ Yes, that's precisely the purpose, to a greater extent. I'll add: to some greater extent. The public health service should be happy because there are people who can tread and remedy the shortage and the cows that we have in public health. It's impossible to understand the similarity that the councils here defend on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1568	I might have intended to wait at the end, but I'd like to take the word now, too, just short of the disappointment or hope that the interpellant claimed broke at my post. I understand that there was a lot to do to ensure that the hope did not break, with the assumptions that Hernæs has in this case. But I hope that he went with him to the very end of the post, because in his own post, Hernæs focused quite strongly on the arrangement with the Swedish National Agency for the purchase of outpatient treatment facilities. I have spent time until now in conversation with the Minister of Health and the Minister of Social Affairs about the sense of extending the scheme. And as I signaled in my very last sentence, I'm going to consider contributing to an increased allocation to this scheme. But otherwise it is difficult for me to give Hernæs the right that it would be so much better to add to a system where those who are so lucky to have an employer who has both the ability and the willingness to pay for it should come in a much more favourable situation than other workers who may be equally ill and equally need treatment, but who do not, either because the employer does not have the ability to pay for private treatment, or because the employee concerned is not considered so important to the employer that he takes the financial burden. I'm still going to argue that the principle of equality speaks for such matters to be dealt with in the way it is now. Moreover, if you start by letting this go out in the health sector, you should not have a big imagination to realize that it can also come out in many other areas, where employers instead of paying cash pay agreements with employees that you have to pay more of the employees' private expenditure. In that case, both the employer and the employee would save money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1577	The regulatory time is immediately running out. The President will propose that we continue this meeting until today’s map has been finalised – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1580	We fully support the testing system that has now been in operation. I hope that it will be expanded, and that it will be made permanent in the future. I think until now it has worked very well. It has not only been a saving in the millions-class, but it has of course also been a great saving of suffering for those who otherwise had to stand in line much longer. For us, it is important that the public should govern this. Not only in fiscal policy, but also in general health and social policy, it is important that there is some social governance – I think this will have to do with the tax question in this case. This offer must apply to everyone, not just a few. It's fundamentally important to us. It also applies to the enterprise in which you are employed, and to the occupational group and category in which you belong, whether you have a low salary or a high salary. In other words, if you want to go further on the fiscal side, you have to make legislation that covers everyone, not just a few. Some pension schemes, including: unearned occupational pensions are already favoured by tax. The background for this is, among other things, that strict requirements are imposed on such arrangements, e.g., as I initially said, that the plan should cover all employees, not only high pay. It's already in the system today. If a new tax-free health care scheme is to be introduced at the expense of the employer, it has to be assessed whether the scheme is required, for example, that the offer applies to all, as I said at the outset. Before any new measures are introduced, we believe that these matters need to be clarified, as I mentioned. In order to contribute to society, inter alia: through reduced taxes, it is necessary to assess the requirements to be imposed on such a scheme. For us, it's alpha and omega that this is going to apply to everyone, that there aren't just a few that will have the opportunity to get into such a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1591	There is a very important debate that the representative here is moving on and on. It has, among other things, from us others have previously been claimed that this must be a way to go. I think that if the government had spent the same time in its department trying to find solutions to get this done, instead of spending so long trying to figure out why things are so hard, we might have actually managed to get a little bit further at this point. The representative Nordtun was concerned that there must of course be a system that applies to everyone. Yes, I fully agree with the Nordtun representative. But there's nothing in this interpellation that this should apply to a few. It is, of course, that there must be equality of principles in this matter. The debate is also partly about the so-called pilot scheme to buy out sick people in order to get them treated. This is a pilot scheme, and is under the heading of the social security budget. My question is, how long does this have to be a trial plan, instead of turning it into a permanent scheme? It turns out at all levels that this works. Instead of trying to maintain watertight shots between what's going on with sickness and what's going on with the social security system, you should find a system where the people you can buy out get a chance to do this, so that you get back to work quickly. Based on what the council said, it seemed to me that it is almost the fear of the private that is the underlying in this matter. I really hope that's not the case. I hope you can see that the public health service and the private health service must play a team. We're dependent on each other if we're going to be able to do something about the Norwegian health care system. Unfortunately, the public health service has shown that it is unable to address the demand for healthcare. And then we actually have to use the possibilities we have at the private institute. I hope that the Council of State will return to its payroll chamber and assess this matter again, and that he will return to the Stortinget with a more positive view on this issue later and ensure that the Stortinget can adopt a system that allows tax deductions for this type of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1604	The interpellant claims that it would be health best and tax easiest to eliminate the taxation of operations paid by the employer. The Minister of Finance has pointed out in his statement that such conversion would result in significant tax discrimination against workers and could lead to an unfortunate distortion of health care resources. I agree with the Minister of Finance, and would just like to add a little bit about what I consider to be a better solution, and which the Minister of Finance affected at the end of his speech, namely the purchase by social security agencies of operations in public and private hospitals. The interpellant was also concerned about this, but seems to live in the belief that someone believes and wants there to be no room for private services in this area – a fear that the representative Nesvik also seems to share. Of course, this isn't right. The social security offices then also purchase operations both in public hospitals and in private hospitals. This scheme seems to be very successful. Last year, 4,500 patients were treated this way. This year, it's worth 10 million. NOK more, a total of 45 million. NOK, and not less than 6000 patients are to be treated. This investment is assumed to provide a saving of 100 million. kr. In addition, the positive effect is that these people are saved for unnecessary long periods of time with disease. I have noticed that the Rikstrøgdeverket will now carry out a fairer distribution of funds, and that is good. I would also like to stress that this is about treatment outside of the usual working hours, so that it does not interfere with the normal functioning of the hospitals, and thus does not push other patients any longer in the queue. Since the need still seems greater than the offer, I am pleased that, in consultation with the Minister of Health and the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Finance will consider a further strengthening of the scheme. And the arrangement will be permanent, as the Nordtun representative hopes. It remained nationwide from 1999 and will be permanent from next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1615	I would like to remind you that the starting point for this interpellation is actually the following: Had we had a public health service that solved its tasks, this interpellation would not have been raised. That's how we all know it's not. That is why I fully support the interpellant when it becomes as wrong as the Minister of Finance now explains that the tax system will punish private employers who will pay for the operations of employees. So they have to be punished with taxes both here and there. The Minister of Finance has clearly shown that paragraphs can be used up and paragraphs down and the principle of equality can be discussed here and there from the fact that you can say yes to someone who wants to give something in addition. So you can get so square in your head and pervert the principle of equality to the extent that you think it's better that no one gets help, that everyone's in line, because that's at least the same thing. I think that when we have a situation where people get sicker from being in line – so sick that many ports that were dissatisfied, with the suffering of both the physical and mental nature of it – while we know that it costs society far more than the little tax revenue you might get by taxing employers who want to give their employees this opportunity, it is really hard to deal with. There is no elite selection, because key personnel are available at all levels. But if you – if I did not misunderstand Mr. Nordtun – goes so far as to require that in order for employers to be allowed to do this here, you have to have a code that applies to everyone, not just a few, you actually suggest – and now I hope I have misunderstood – that private employers should have a duty to help everyone – or nobody. And it's really going to be setting up a new welfare society that I didn't think anyone in this room agreed to, because we all still think that should be a task that the public can solve. But until that happens – that the public stuff to solve it – I think it's pretty straightforward to say that then the employers and the employees who agree to solve this privately should be punished on the wallet through the tax system. It is clear that employers should be allowed to do this is an emergency solution, but there is an emergency solution that forces themselves because of the failure of the public authorities. I don't think we should forget that. Then you can show that we have other possibilities through social security. It's nice to hear all those who for many years have been against this solution, now praise it this way, and we'll hope it becomes permanent. It has been proposed by the Right for many years. Here you have to use all the forces, so that people don't suffer more than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1624	I note, after Annelise Höegh's contributions here today, that there is a majority in the Norwegian Grand Prix that is square in its head, because it is actually a majority in this process that stands for the arrangement that the Minister of Finance has presented here and that we are fortunately still going for. The representative Hernæs said that he did not understand the similarity that the Minister of Finance drew up. It is well possible that the representative Hernæs does not understand it, but I actually thought that there were fundamental equality ideals both in fiscal policy and in health policy that there was a little more agreed on than what is now coming. I think it's making it black to white or vice versa when the representative Hoegh says that the system that is in force today is punishing the employers. There is a solidarity and equalising tax policy that is to be applied in relation to wages or other benefits, as explained by the Minister of Finance, as is the case here. With regard to equality in other contexts of health policy, it is quite remarkable to hear the representatives of the Right here today. We have had a priority debate on Norwegian health care for a long time. It has been mouthed out in two major investigations, at the Wages and Wages Committees I and II. A current representative of the right-wing party has been the chairman of the sample, where we have gone through and looked at the health priorities to be taken into account for the treatment of all citizens in this country, and then on an equal footing, that there should be health factors on the basis of which people should be helped and improved. It may be tempting to pay this for yourself, and I understand that people are being blamed for being in a condition of health. I also understand that it is inconsistent for the state and the public to pay sick pay for a long time, while a quick treatment may mean that the public saves money, if the public had enough opening to treat these people. But then the resource question is different. Do we have enough staff? Do we have other inputs than the economic ones to deal with them? If we're going to open up to the Right Model, at least the key personnel and part of the inputs we're now talking about will be away from the public health service that's going to give help and treatment to most people. Then we're going to have even greater imbalances here, but it's probably the privatisation trend that Right wants, and that they're also trying to advance through this fiscal issue. In addition, I point out that the purchase of treatment by the Rikstrøgdeverket has increased by 10 million. kr this year. I hope that evolution can continue. Otherwise, that arrangement has been made on a permanent basis, contrary to what Mr Nesvik said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1638	I notice that someone is trying to make this a debate about public vs private health. As far as I have been able to register, the interpellant has not taken on board that debate, but that when an employer pays for a service, the employee should not be taxed for the benefit it gives. But then I hear that more people in the debate are drawing up the system of prioritising sick people under the auspices of the National Fund as a good system, which should be extended and which should be put into permanent systems, and that the parties previously opposed to the scheme are now in favour of it. SV is still against that scheme, and I'm going to elaborate on why. What is happening here is the opposite of what has been raised by several speakers, namely that the arrangements should apply to all, and that there should be no discrimination. For example, when you go into a scheme under the auspices of the National Agency for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, it means that you are given priority in a health queue for as long as you can refer to a work relationship. If you fall out of that job because of long-term illness, e.g. It is therefore not necessary to give priority to a reintroduction measure, which may be unpensioned. Then I hear Are Næss says that this does not hit the groups that are on normal waiting lists, because you use a capacity that does not go in the usual daytime, but in the evening. But that's a disgraceful way of looking at the system. It is clear that when total public capacity is lacking, and also within the private sector – because both are involved in creating waiting lists – all that total capacity must, of course, be used for the benefit of the entire population. This means that the government should come up with a system now that does not favour sick workers, but that takes into account that everyone, regardless of whether you are in a job and are sick of it or not, should be given priority. That means you should figure out what kind of total capacity exists, and get it fully exploited. A scheme proposed by SV is that for each sick worker, it is ensured that the normal health condition is taken into account and that it is not in a working condition. At least it would be a much fairer arrangement than the one you have today. In the case of the scheme for which Hernæs is a member, with a tax advantage for workers in health queues, there is a risk of distortion. This means that the employer can make some kind of considerations as to whether this is an employee that is particularly useful to me, we should give priority to getting him treated, we should cover the costs, because we need him back. There is then a type of discrimination that violates the principles underlying the development of Health Norway. Among other things, I can refer to the very significant investigation carried out by Mr Tove Strand Gerhardsen in the late 1980s, in 1987, 'Health for All in Norway?' and the intentions underlying it. That kind of intention is the bulk of the population breaking down by prioritising those who are sick, not looking at the whole group of people in the society who have disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1651	I'll be very brief, for I think Annelise Höegh kept an excellent post from our side. But there is one point that I would like to raise, which the Minister of Finance was in the middle of it. He spoke of slipping out by the employer paying other expenses for the employee. It's a direct mistrust of Business Norway. If the Minister of Finance believes that an employer will trick an employee by paying other things, cheat on that basis, the Minister of Finance is completely wild. Here, of course, there must be a reason for receipts, it must be documented. And it doesn't help to put a light bill into this! I think it's unfair to mention something like this from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1658	Once again we can determine that the fronts are relatively locked, but fortunately the experience shows that they dissolve along the way. What Ola D. Glötvold referred to as the Right Model is, among other things, the practice we have today, which the other parties have opposed. But if it goes on for a year or two, they're probably coming on. After all, only the museum administrators in SV are against the scheme. Are Neess was concerned that the social security offices were allowed to purchase these services. It is good to hear this belief in the processed properties of money, when they are channelled through a public purchase. Money for exactly the same purpose from an enterprise has obviously remained somewhat suspicious of itself. Those who are so lucky to have such an employer say the Minister of Finance. Yes, there is no doubt that it is an advantage to have a good employer, because – as I have tried to say – someone who is randomly affected by an illness or an accident. But it is also an advantage for those who are ill or affected by accidents and who do not have such an employer who can in this way ensure that you can get the employee out of the health queue that is less fortunate is so unfortunate to be in. This should be for the benefit of absolutely all parties. I would like to stress once again from our side that if this really affected the capacity of our public hospitals, it is fully possible to solve it by purchasing these services domestically or abroad. The danger of employers prioritizing differently from one employee to another is, of course, only present if you have an absolute similarity principle that everyone should suffer equally. Of course, employers prioritise different employees in different ways. They do that, for example. in the case of continuing training, by enhancing competence. They pick out some of their employees because they're interested in it, because it's in the company's interest to get them trained in different ways. It can't be much different than in the case that's the background of the interpellation, that a pilot in one of our airlines came back to work and saved society for 0.5 million. kr because the employer paid. The de minimis amounts that the tax authorities ‘tagged’ on it is an accounting that is overwhelming to the public benefit. I note that the Minister of Finance has not said a word about the good store.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1669	I agree with the inter-pellant Hernæs that the fronts, as he called it, i.e. the dividing lines in Stortinget, seem to be quite locked on this issue – the dividing lines between those who think that as much as possible should be solved through the tax system, and those who believe that there are other criteria that should be considered. I believe that, based on the submissions that have been made, there is a clear majority in the Stortinget that believes that current practice is the right one, that it should not be allowed that employers' coverage of healthcare should not lead to taxation obligations for those who benefit from this healthcare because it can lead to significant discrimination. Several of the contributions were based on the fact that the scheme must apply to all. That said, among other things: also Harald Nesvik. But it will be an impossible starting point to say that the scheme applies to everyone, because you cannot – and I agree with Annelise Höegh – assume that employers are obliged to cover the expenses of their employees. Then it will apply to everyone, but it will be a completely hopeless starting point. Therefore, such a scheme as the interpellant recommends and which is supported by the party traps and by the Progress Party cannot apply to all. It's going to be a selection, and it's going to be a selection, a kind of "elite selection," which I called it in my post. Then I have registered with satisfaction that the new scheme, where the Rikstrøgdeverket can buy out outpatient places – which was a trial scheme, but which is now permanent – is considered to have worked so well that everyone, with the exception of SV, now seems to have to develop it further. I also stated at the end of my speech that I already have a discussion with the two competent specialist councils, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Social Affairs on this scheme, which I would like to contribute to making more progress in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1678	Then we finished dealing with case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1684	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1691	During the debate, Oddvard Nilsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. Mr Nilsen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1696	Following the intervention of the Prime Minister, where he gave positive signals related to the proposal, I ask, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, that it be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1701	The proposal has then been converted into a transmission proposal and thus received the introduction ‘Recommendation to the Government’, etc. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government pool its interests in Norwegian business in one department with a view to achieving a more professional and commercial management of ownership.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1724	During the debate, Mr Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals to the Storting for increased coordination of public instruments in the cultural sector by the end of 2000.’ The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:6 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1734	An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1744	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-03.ana.ud708e1793	Thus, today's map has been processed. Before the representatives leave the Chamber, the President will draw attention to the fact that this afternoon the representatives have received a historical book in their shelves, namely the book on the Stortinget and the art. The president hopes you will bring it home this weekend and read it; it is a very interesting book. It's not often that kind of advertising from Stortinget's president's office, but the book is highly recommended. It's a really good weekend!
