ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-04.ana.ud2459e23	The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Magnhild Offseth Olrud, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers’ Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Shahbaz Tariq from 4 October to 12 October from the representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Britt Hildeng, Annelise Höegh, Anne Helen Rui, Per Sandberg and Elsa Scarbøvik on leave from 9 October to 3 November – all to attend the 55th General Assembly of the United Nations, Part II, in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Rikke LindFor Oslo: Kai Ekanger, Anders C. Shaastad and Dagny Gärtner HovigFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Robert ErikssonFor Vestfold County: Trond Mathisen and Harald Solberg3. Trond Mathisen and Harald Solberg are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for representatives Anne Helen Rui and Elsa Skarbøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-04.ana.ud2459e101	Kai Ekanger is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-04.ana.ud2459e109	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-04.ana.ud2459e112	On behalf of the Progress Party Group, I would like to propose changes to the State budget for the year 2000, including the reduction of fuel taxes, the strengthening of hospitals and the establishment of an office to purchase operations and medical services from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-04.ana.ud2459e117	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-04.ana.ud2459e127	It's been six months since the government joined. We have so far managed on the basis of the budget that the previous government presented last autumn. Today we present our first budget. We've got a lot of input. We have heard from both individuals and the press that the welfare community is failing in important areas. That, of course, is not acceptable. Norway is a rich country, and we have become richer as a result of oil revenues. It is therefore quite natural that we expect a better well-being than what we would otherwise have. The government will do something about the problems that people have pointed out. We will take the signals seriously. At the same time, we have to admit that oil money doesn't make us in a completely different situation than before. When we're going to do more in health care, we're dependent on having doctors and nurses who can do the job. There's little use of more money if we don't have enough labour. Lack of labour is today the main restriction to expand the supply in many areas. The government is providing a budget where we spend as much money as the economy can bear. We're putting forward a budget with increased spending on the common resources. We build the welfare community further. More is allocated to health, more to care for the elderly, more to kindergartens, more to education and research. So some people say: Don't politicians always say that? Isn't this just a word? No, that's not it. Next year, more patients will be treated in hospitals than ever before. Never before has so much been allocated to the health sector. The increase from 2000 to 2001 is over DKK 3 billion. Municipalities get NOK 5 billion more in relation to the income level in ours. We're presenting a budget that gives a fairer distribution. Those who have the most must contribute more to the community. Therefore, we introduce tax on dividend dividends. At the same time, we reduce the tax on labour income by NOK 1 billion. We have high charges, too high charges. Therefore, the Government reduces the tax on petrol and diesel – in two rounds, 1 January and 1 July. In fact, the fees including VAT are reduced by 1,20 kr for petrol and 1,13 kr for diesel. We want to reduce border trade. We're reducing the price of meat by reducing the VAT burden to 18 pst. The fee for spirits is also reduced. We are presenting a budget that provides security for work and personal finances. Many young people are struggling with increased interest rates. I found myself a new letter from the bank when I came home from the office last night. We will prevent new interest rate increases. If we use more than the economy tolerates, the interest rate will increase and many who work in industry and other competitive industries will lose their jobs. I hope we'll all go together to prevent that. That's why we're making an important choice. We dampen the pressure in the private sector to allow for an increase in community spending. We do this by introducing a new business cycle fee paid by employers and traders. In this way, we can expand welfare services and at the same time prevent new interest rate increases. The Labour Party will build a society in which all people, regardless of their background, regardless of their place of residence, will have the same right and opportunity to provide a good health service, a good education and a good care provision. We want the director and the worker to send their children to the same school, meet the same healthcare system and the same care for the elderly. Such a society must be built together through common goods that reach all. Those who have the most must also contribute the most. At the same time, welfare services need to be changed and improved in order to meet new needs. The 2001 budget provides clear priorities for achieving those objectives. There are still major differences in Norwegian society. The inequalities are shining against us when we see the palaces of billionaires and at the same time hear of children living below the poverty line. From 1990 to 1998, payments of dividends to Norwegian households increased from less than NOK 2 billion to more than NOK 18 billion. At the same time, dividends were distributed to skeptics. In 1998, almost 95 pst went. of what was paid by dividends to Norwegian individuals, to the 10 pst. which had the highest income. Therefore, the Government proposes to introduce 14 pst. tax on dividends on shares. We'll make it more profitable to work. Therefore, we propose to reduce the tax on labour income by NOK 1 billion through increased minimum deductions. We're gonna ring the bell about the fear of the people. Workers' rights in the event of sickness and disability are continued. It's one of the biggest economic priorities in the budget. However, perhaps the most important measure of fair distribution is for the Government to provide a budget that helps to avoid higher interest rates. The government wants a society built on solidarity, national and international. Six children die every minute because they don't have vaccines that are considered a matter of course. We can do something about that. The government will help all children to be vaccinated. That's why we're giving 200 million. kr to the International Vaccine Programme. We want to strengthen the fight against HIV and AIDS. We want to strengthen the fight against poverty. That is what we do, both through assistance from country to country and through the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Presses from, among others: The Norwegian authorities have contributed to the escalation of these two institutions in the fight against poverty in the Third World. Debt is a central part of this work. Appropriations for assistance will be increased by more than DKK 1.5 billion. At the same time, we will strengthen cooperation with our neighbours in Russia and Eastern Europe. And we will keep our participation in peacekeeping operations at a high level. The municipalities are a pillar of the Norwegian welfare community. Large parts of our common well-being are created in the municipalities. These can often be improved when solutions are adapted to local conditions. The government wants increased municipal autonomy. Then we must also give municipalities increased income and increased freedom of action over their own incomes. I have met many rapporteurs who are doubtful about the distance between the desire to do more and the opportunities to put important measures into practice. The government therefore believes that the municipalities need more money. The government proposes to increase the revenues of municipalities by DKK 5 billion next year compared to the income level in 2000 presented in our year. That's NOK 1 to 1.5 billion more than what we announced then. Free revenue is increased by approximately NOK 2 billion compared to the level presented in our year. In addition, SEK 1.1 billion is converted into earmarked schemes for free allocations that provide municipalities with additional room for action. This promise enables municipalities to provide better health services, to expand care for the elderly, to invest in school and to build more kindergartens. In addition, municipalities receive compensation for all costs related to extended leave and all costs related to a new working time contract for teachers. When municipalities take advantage of the efficiency opportunities offered by this measure, municipalities will be able to dispose of another half a billion kroner for increased well-being. Municipalities also receive full compensation for the VAT reform and the economic cycle tax. The government’s aim is for Norway to have a health service that is among the best in the world. We all too often hear about individuals who don't get the treatment they're going to have, who have to wait too long, who could have a better life if they got help. The government is presenting a budget where next year we're going to spend around NOK 3 billion more on health care than the Stortinget decided last autumn. Never before has it been granted so much. Next year, hospitals will be able to treat more patients than ever before. Medical equipment is purchased for approximately NOK 1.3 billion, mainly from abroad. Anyone who wants it will get his own permanent doctor. Strengthening cancer treatment. The offer in psychiatry is further expanded. Health is facing ongoing challenges and opportunities. Diseases many of which died a few years ago can now be treated. The treatment queue that many people have today was not found 20 years ago, 10 years ago – or 5 years ago. Because then there was no treatment to queue for! Heart operations are an example of that. Today we spend four times more on health than in 1960. Norway is one of the countries in Europe that spends the most public health spending per year. the population. We are now treating 100,000 more patients per year. year than 10 years ago. The number of persons employed in the healthcare sector has more than doubled in 20 years. There is now more work in this sector than in the entire Norwegian industry. So health problems are not just money issues. Well, that's how important it is to better organise the health care system. We have to make sure that surgeons can spend more time operating patients and less time at meetings and administration. Animal equipment may not be used for the most part of the day. This has been taken up by the Government. We've given ourselves two years. Over the course of two years, we will have established a model for public hospital operations that is more effective than today, a reform of operation, funding and organisation. This is the most important thing that is now being done to improve health. So at the same time, we're increasing the appropriations so they're going to be higher than ever before. Although we live in one of the world’s best countries, many older people still do not have a worthwhile offer. The quality of a society can be measured in many ways by how to deal with the elderly. Parents and their relatives should feel confident that they will receive good help and be treated with respect. In the spring of 1997, the government of Jagland presented a plan for expanding care for the elderly. Extra 30 billion would be inserted over four years. We wanted to build nursing homes so that people could live in their own homes. Home services were to be expanded. Anyone who wanted it would be offered a single room in a nursing home. Three years ago, this was a distant goal. Now it's getting real. Since 1998, there has been a clear signal for the development and upgrading of more than 17 000 nursing homes and homes. In 2001, the development continues. At the same time, the Government announces that we will extend the development plans and increase the allocations, so that in 2002 we will total up to almost 30,000 new and upgraded nursing homes and nursing homes as a result of the action plan. This is how we build the welfare community – towards the goal, ever closer. Many young people have great difficulty finding a place to live. Prices are high. This payment has been cancelled. The government attaches great importance to the fact that the budget must prevent interest rate increases. But that's not enough. We want a more active housing policy. We are now following up the housing plan that the Government presented this summer. We strengthen the House Bank by 2 billion kroner. The lending framework will then be DKK 4 billion higher than in 1999. A number of people will have to borrow from the establishment. 1000 new student homes are being built. The housing allowance is increased. It makes it possible to build up to 1000 more rental homes than in previous years. The development of kindergartens has stopped in recent years. In 1997, 16 400 new kindergartens were built, in 1998 only 3 700. The working party will have full child-care coverage. Next year we'll build 6,000 new kindergartens. At the same time, the State contribution is increased. This means that the parental benefit for children under 3 years of age can be reduced. The government proposes a number of measures for children and young people. We will strengthen the voluntary work of children and young people. Think of what music orps, football and the woodpecker mean for our children and possibly grandchildren, and for us parents who work in the flea market! Perhaps this is also the best prevention work for young people. The government is concerned about the crime of children and young people. We will increase efforts to combat child and youth crime, through measures to combat bullying, countering recriminalism, training parents, helping those with serious behavioural problems. The government will have a mobilization for culture, knowledge and innovation. In addition to cultural actions for children and young people and increased support for organisations, the Government proposes increased support for Norwegian films, increased press support and the strengthening of public libraries. And not least, the cultural sector must be exempt from VAT. At the same time, the government strengthens environmental protection efforts through increased funding for cultural memory protection, increased allocation to new open-air areas for the public and increased climate research. In order to dampen the growth of energy consumption and stimulate the increased use of new renewable energy sources, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany proposed increasing charges for electricity and heating oil over a decade. The electricity charge and the land tax on fuel oil are therefore increased corresponding to 1,5 øre/kWh. Similarly, an electricity charge of 1 øre/kWh is introduced for industry and the greenhouse industry. Major reforms have been carried out in the school system. In the last 10 years, 6 year school start-ups have been introduced, primary school has been extended to 10 years, the school leave system has been expanded, the right to three years of secondary education has been introduced, the number of university and higher education places has increased significantly, the continuing education reform is being implemented. At the same time, we see that the quality of school is not good enough. Recruitment to the teaching profession is weakened. School buildings are decaying in many places. This cannot continue. Good teachers are a prerequisite for a good school. For many years, there has been talk of doing something about the teacher's pay. Now it happens. In the course of the year's payroll, a new working time agreement was concluded with the teachers who contribute to raising teacher pay and improving teacher recruitment. The salary for teachers was increased by up to NOK 30000. In the budget, it's set at 950 million. kr to this promise to raise the quality of school. The opposite is that teaching resources should be more effective – that school life should be better organised. We strengthen the data supply at school. The system of free school books in secondary school is being expanded. By strengthening the free income of municipalities, we also give municipalities greater freedom of action to gradually improve school buildings. We live in a time of violent technological change. Ten years ago, hardly any of us had a cell phone. And those who had it had to carry appliances the size of today's laptops. None of us could imagine that today we can sit in different parts of the world and work together via telecommunications lines. We can't just talk. We can see each other. We can write in the same document. We don't know what the future will bring, but we know that knowledge means more and more. Therefore, training provision needs to be strengthened. At the same time, we know that there is research that is driving knowledge further. The government’s objective is to bring research efforts in Norway up to the OECD average over a five-year period. In the next year’s budget, the research fund will be strengthened by DKK 3 billion – almost a double. Efforts are being increased and targeted in the priority areas of research: basic research, marine research, ICT research, medical and health science and research at the intersection of environment and energy, inter alia. research for more environmentally friendly gas power plants. With effect from 1 July, a grant scheme will be put in place to stimulate increased research in industry. Knowledge, ideas and creativity will be our most important capital in the future. Therefore, education and research are crucial for further industrial development. Many of the most important value-added in society takes place in the care sector — educating children, caring for the elderly, caring for the sick. The main emphasis of new jobs must also come here. Nevertheless, increased value creation in business is crucial for both employment and well-being. The government will develop business. We need new legs to stand on as the oil age approaches the end. Norway has unique opportunities. We must meet the changes and challenges offensively. We have to put the technological innovations into practice in all parts of the country. In the autumn, the government will present an action plan for broadband investment. We present a programme for the development of electronic commerce. At the same time, we need to develop opportunities in traditional industries. We are setting up a value creation programme for Norwegian agriculture. We want to develop the fishing industry. Norway shall continue to be a pioneer in aquaculture. Therefore, the marine sector is a major field of research. We set up a programme for economic development based on marine resources. We want it to be easier and, not least, safer to travel along the coast. The appropriations allocated to ports and fairways are greatly increased. The government will award new salmon farming concessions next year. Demands will be made, inter alia: for geographical location at municipal level. The concessions will then be distributed through an auction. Norwegian enterprises must participate offensively in the changes taking place in business. The government proposes the creation of a government/private investment company with DKK 5 billion in capital base, which can contribute to such a investment. The state has to own 49 pst. in the company. The Fund shall contribute to the further development of existing business environments and contribute to restructuring processes. A well-functioning financial market depends on trust. The rules and supervision of the financial market and financial institutions shall help to maintain that confidence. Financial acrobatics seem to have become a new practice in parts of business. Recent press headlines, industry’s option fixtures and increased management salaries are gradually giving a very worrying impression of parts of business and the financial market. Such examples help to weaken confidence in the Norwegian financial market both in Norway and abroad — and do not make it obvious that other groups should be moderated. We can't have a business that acts on the edge of the law, where someone enriches at the expense of others, for example. price manipulation and insider dealing. This is unacceptable. The regulatory framework for financial market players has been strengthened several times in recent years. These changes have obviously not been sufficient. The government will therefore present new and stricter rules against insider dealing. But trust in the financial market does not depend solely on regulation. Operators in the market must themselves help to clear up the doubts created by the fact that they are more concerned with their own profits than with the interests of businesses and customers. The government will reduce important consumer charges in order to bring them closer to the European level. Many people depend on a car to get there. This is not least the case in the districts, where the collective transport service is less developed than in the cities. I know what long distances are after driving Finnmark cross and across countless times. Norway is a long-distance country. We therefore rely on long-distance transport to get our goods to the market. Recently, the price of crude oil has increased sharply. This has led to a record price of petrol and diesel. It is particularly marked in a country such as Norway. The government believes that the price of petrol and diesel must be lower. It is necessary to reduce transport costs for both families and businesses. The fuel tax is therefore not adjusted in the new year, as is usual. On the contrary, the fee is reduced by 50 cents on 1 January. With effect from 1 July, the fees shall be reduced by a further 32 ears. Included is the real tax reduction of SEK 1.20. The diesel tax is actually reduced by SEK 1,13 including VAT. The price of the pump can be reduced by a penny compared to today. Following the proposals of the Norwegian and Swedish State budget, the differences in the petrol tax between Norway and Sweden will be reduced from just over one krone to just under 25 øre per. liters from 1 July next year. This is the first time a finance minister has proposed a lower petrol tax since the tax separation between lead-free and unleaded petrol was introduced! Over the course of the year's agricultural settlement, we arranged for food prices to be lowered. We want safe, good-quality food at acceptable prices. The government will dampen up the growing border trade. One of the most border trade products is meat. The Government therefore proposes to make Norwegian meat cheaper by introducing a VAT compensation scheme equivalent to a reduction in the VAT rate on meat to 18 pst. In the United Kingdom, the Labour Party has intervened to reduce the tax differential on alcohol between Norway and Sweden. In line with this, the tax on spirits is actually reduced by 17,5 pst. with effect from 1 July 2001 in order to reduce border trade and bring about the death of smuggling. At the same time, alcohol prevention and increased border control are being introduced. All these efforts have been made within a budget that does not lead to increased pressure in the Norwegian economy. Budgetary policy is challenged from several sides. The high pressure in the Norwegian economy is the reason why interest rates have increased by a total of 1.5 percentage points in the last six months. In such a situation, it would not be appropriate to further increase the pressure by providing a budget that stimulates the economy. In addition, there is a strong growth in the payments of sick pay and disability benefits. In 1999, sick leave was estimated to increase by 6.5 pst in the current year. In May, the estimate was 8.5 pst. Now it's at 12 pst. And the estimate for growth in 2001 is 10 pst. In 2001, non-age pension expenditure by the population is estimated to increase by DKK 5.2 billion in real terms. Increases in the cost of living are thus accounting for about half of the total expenditure growth in the budget. At the same time, there is a need to address important issues in, inter alia: health care, school, care for the elderly and kindergartens, as I've been in the past. In order to create room for such increased efforts in public welfare systems, the pressures in the private sector of the economy need to be mitigated. Therefore, the Government proposes the imposition of a cyclical tax of 1,5 pst. paid by enterprises and traders on the basis of their compensation of employees and of entrepreneurial income. In this way, the pressure where it is greatest is dampened in the labour market. And the pressure in the private sector is reduced, so that there is room to strengthen the common good. The proposal to introduce such an cyclical tax means that 5.2 billion DKK are withdrawn from the private sector. The 1992 tax reform provided a fairer tax system. Income not generated before the tax reform is now taxed. However, since 1992, the system has been eroded. Not least, the split model has become too modest. The distribution effects of the tax system have been weakened. The sharing model also has weaknesses in its treatment of active owners and other owners differently. So in order to contribute to a fairer distribution, the Government proposes the introduction of 14 pst. taxes on the dividends on shares of personal shareholders. Dividends between corporations and dividends received by unit trusts will be excluded. Therefore, those who save in unit trusts are protected. In addition, protective arrangements are proposed for split agents. In order to prevent obvious adjustments, individual restrictions are proposed in the pay-tax rules. You should not get around the dividend tax by repurchase of shares or the like. In addition, the Government proposes tightening the sharing model. From 2002 onwards, the Government intends to introduce a new system of business taxation, with particular high returns taxed at a higher rate. The aim is to introduce a tax system with better distribution effects and more equal treatment than at present, without, in particular, weakening the motivation to invest in Norway. Such conversion may make it possible to abolish the split model in whole or in part, provided that the differences in the tax rate on labour and capital are reduced. That would be a significant improvement. The government follows up the decision of the Storting to exempt commercial assets from property taxes. The exemption is covered by abolishing the share discounts and the 80 % rule. The decision of the budget leads to an even greater discrimination between different assets. It's unfortunate. The budget therefore also presents an alternative asset tax regime with increased non-discrimination in taxation, while strengthening the distribution profile of the property tax. The tax on labour income is reduced. The government is proposing to increase the maximum limit on the minimum deduction. It makes working for people with relatively low incomes more profitable. Together with increased tax on dividends on shares and reductions in the sharing model, the overall tax regime contributes to a very good distribution profile. Low and medium incomes are reduced or around unchanged taxes. The group of between 450000 and 600000 kroner in gross income receives, on average, a tax increase of approximately NOK 2400. On the other hand, the group with more than NOK 600 000 of gross income receives an average tax increase of more than NOK 25 000. This is entirely due to the changes in the business tax. The government proposes to merge the allowance and the child’s pension. Everything is proposed as a child's pension. It is also proposed to abolish the sibling rating, so that all children are given the same general child benefit. Norway was at an early stage in modernising the tax system. We extended the tax base and reduced the rates. An increasing number of countries are now following. Norway does not have a high overall tax level compared to our neighbouring country. We have significantly lower tax levels than Sweden, lower than Denmark, lower than Finland. Although the tax on labour input and some consumer charges are being reduced, the short-term charge and the changes in industrial taxation mean that the total payment of taxes and taxes in 2001 will increase by approximately DKK 6.4 billion. In this respect, account has been taken of the fact that the public sector is compensated for the cyclical charge. However, even with the proposed tax changes in Sweden and Finland, both of these countries will still have a higher tax level than Norway. For example, in order to get up to the level that Sweden had to. the total taxes in Norway are increased by DKK 50 billion. In addition, tax relief in Finland must be seen in the context of high levels of unemployment. In Norway, the situation is the opposite. The Norwegian VAT system has remained largely unchanged since its introduction in 1970. VAT is currently applied to the turnover of goods, while the turnover of services is generally not subject to VAT. It implies that goods and services are treated differently, without good reason being given. Value added tax is one of the main sources of funding for our joint welfare services. Services represent an increasing share of consumption. In order to avoid the confusion of the VAT base, it is necessary that the turnover of services is also captured by the VAT system. A general duty on services makes legislation simpler and more transparent. The legislation will be more consistent with the legislation of other countries. All other OECD countries with VAT have general VAT on services. The Bondevik Government announced in the national budget for the current year that proposals for general VAT on services would be submitted before Easter this year. At the same time, increased VAT rates were opened. The Government proposes the introduction of general VAT on services from 1 July 2001. The VAT rate is kept at 23 pst. A general duty obligation does not mean that all services will be subject to VAT. The cultural sector is excluded. Theatres, operas, ballets, exhibitions, concerts, cinemas and sporting events are excluded. Newspapers, books and journals continue to receive special treatment. They are exempted while being deducted from VAT. The health sector is excluded. The education sector is largely excluded. The Bondevik government would consider a reduced rate for accommodation and passenger transport. We agree. Therefore, accommodation and passenger transport receive half a rate, 12 pst. The introduction of VAT does not mean that costs increase accordingly. At the same time, companies are entitled to deduct the VAT they themselves pay on their purchases. For example, the tourism industry would: 9 pst. VAT on overnight stays and passenger transport does not lead to an increase in the costs of the sector as a whole. With 12 pst. therefore the effects on prices are limited. In many cases there will be no price change at all. The government proposes compensation for local bus routes and trains, while e.g. trams are assumed to come out at no significant additional cost. State and municipal activities are compensated for the additional costs. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has requested the amendment of the Norwegian air passenger charge in order to comply with the EEA Agreement. In principle, the ESA’s directives require that all flights in Norway are subject to a charge and that the charge must be the same for domestic and international flights. The government announced to the Stortinget in the revised national budget that ESA’s obligations had to be complied with. The majority in Stortinget took note of that. This is now being followed up. However, the government believes that it would be unreasonable to impose an air passenger charge on the long and expensive flights to North Norway. The Government therefore considers that flights to, from and within North Norway must be excluded. So far, it's not clear whether ESA will be able to accept it. However, it seems clear that flights to, from and between Tromsø and Bodø cannot be exempted. The derogation is limited in line with that. Transit journeys are excluded. This will also apply to journeys in transit via Tromsø and Bodø. The Government considers that it would not be reasonable to impose VAT on the aviation sector in addition to this air passenger charge. It is therefore proposed to apply a zero rate to aviation, i.e.: that no VAT is calculated but that VAT is deducted by the airlines themselves. It's a very favorable arrangement. Overall, this does not increase the overall tax burden on the aviation sector. The Government attaches great importance to the maintenance of the air route offer. The government will ensure everyone's work. Our goal is for those who are unemployed today to get a job. There is a high level of activity in the Norwegian economy. The employment rate is very high. Unemployment is low. Six years of continuous strong growth were replaced in the autumn of 1998 by a short-term break in growth. But it was a break. Already in the second half of last year the growth started to rise again. Developments in the current year and prospects for the next year point to the continuation of growth. The estimate for next year is a growth of 1.75 pst. in GDP of mainland Norway. Economic pressures are reflected in the labour market. There is a shortage of labour in many sectors. The number of job vacancies is very high. Only in the health service there are almost 6,000 job vacancies. There has never been any more work in Norway than now. In the OECD region, only Switzerland and Iceland have a higher employment rate than Norway. Unemployment was halved from 1993 to 1999. The availability seems to be at a low level both this year and next year. At the same time, a tight labour market presents us with challenges. The labour reserve is likely to be limited. Population trends indicate a clearly lower growth in the labour force in the future than we have been accustomed to. The Norwegian economy will be able to operate close to the capacity limit for several years to come. The pressure in the labour market exerts pressure on wages and salaries. For several years we have been able to combine high employment and low unemployment with a moderate price and cost increase. However, in 1998, we had twice as high wages as the countries with which we compete. In the last six years, earnings growth in Norway has been around 8 percentage points higher in total than in our trading partners. This has led to a loss of competitiveness. We all remember how industry lost market shares over the 1980s. The solidarity option has enabled us to improve competitiveness. Market shares increased significantly from 1993 to 1997. Industrial investment increased. Industrial employment increased. But in the last three years Norwegian exporters have again lost market share. A key challenge in economic policy now is therefore to bring the price and cost weight in Norway down to the same level as in our trading partners. If we fail to do so, Norwegian goods will be more expensive compared to goods from other countries. If the goods get more expensive, they become harder to sell. If we sell less, the production will go down. If we produce less, people lose their jobs. Unemployment will increase again. It's going to be very hard to rebuild business if we've built it down first by weakening competitiveness. That's exactly what we learned during the crisis of the late 1980s and early 1990s. The government will pursue an economic policy that does not reinforce the pressure of the Norwegian economy. That's why we're presenting a budget that works neutral, a budget with barely 2.5 pst. expenditure growth, approximately the same as the trend growth in value added. The government builds its economic policy on the solidarity option. The solidarity option is a comprehensive strategy for economic policy. The social partners shall contribute to maintaining cost competitiveness through moderate wage-fixing. Governments and increases shall contribute through budgetary policy to a stable development of production and employment. Monetary and monetary policy shall be directed towards stability in the value of the crown vis-à-vis European currencies. It also reflects the relationship between the different parts of economic policy. If there is a failure in the implementation of economic policy in one field, the other parts of the policy will also be under pressure. If e.g. Budgetary policy is not sufficiently tight, the pressure on the labour market could become too high to achieve moderate wage growth through income policy. Then it's also hard to keep the exchange rate stable. Monetary policy forms a central part of the overall economic policy. A monetary policy aimed at stability in the krone price makes the close link between wage weight and competitiveness visible. Experience suggests that there are limitations to the ability to control the short-term exchange rate. However, it is important that monetary policy contributes to stable expectations of exchange rate developments. A balanced economic development with low price and cost growth is a prerequisite for achieving stability in the exchange rate over time. Monetary policy instruments must therefore be set up in such a way that they, together with the other instruments of economic policy, contribute to meeting this requirement. From this point of view, the Bank of Norway must continuously assess the appropriateness of its use in the light of the circumstances of the currency market and the situation in the Norwegian economy. The main objective of budgetary policy is to manage the use of Community funds in order to ensure work for all and to maximise well-being. At the same time, budgetary policy must take account of two main considerations: Firstly, budgetary policy must contribute to a stable economic development in which it avoids unduly strong cyclical outlooks. Secondly, budgetary policy must be maintained over time without the need for major changes. Here in Norway, we need to pay particular attention to the fact that the cost of pensions and care services for the elderly will increase while the revenue from the oil industry is falling. It is not a goal in itself to have the greatest possible surplus on the state budget. Yes, it's not even a goal to have profits every single year. In situations of high unemployment, on the contrary, it would be right to stimulate the economy by spending more money on the government budget, as we did in the early 1990s. On the contrary, in situations of strong economic pressure, we need to set up the budget to avoid further pressure, as it is now. At the same time, we must have a long-term perspective. We cannot increase the level of well-being one year because the oil price is incidentally high, and then tighten strongly the year after because the oil price then happens to fall. Norway has become richer as a result of oil and gas resources. At the same time, it is important to repeat that oil revenues do not put us in a fundamentally new situation. We can't produce more than we have labour to do. If we try to avoid this reality by using oil money regardless of whether we have labour and materials to do the job, the danger is that it costs more than it tastes. The government is spending as much money as the economy can afford. The question is how much space is left in the glass, not how much is left in the bottle. We face three key challenges in economic policy and in the development of public welfare. Firstly, as I have just said, we must conduct a responsible budgetary policy that balances the fluctuations in the economy and that can be maintained over time. Let me point to a special relationship here: We have a huge surplus in the state budget. But the responsibilities of popularism are also increasing strongly. We do not see that in the state budget. That's not what's going to count. In the state budget, we do not regard the reduction of oil reserves as a cost. On the other hand, the current withdrawal is regarded as an income. The budget surplus is therefore not a good measure of the development of the country's real wealth. This is illustrated by new estimates presented in the national budget. The budget surplus has been corrected for the increase in government pension liabilities. In addition, it is corrected that current oil revenues are assumed to be much higher than in the years ahead. It gives a better expression of the country's real change in wealth. In fact, the calculation shows that the state's wealth is being reduced by about 44 billion dollars in 2000, even if the budget shows a surplus. From 1971 until today, the country's oil revenues have been approximately NOK 1 100 billion. Of this, an estimated 800 billion have been spent on the state budget. What does that mean? Well, that means that the average has over 70 million. Every day every week every month since oil revenues began to flow in – 70 million pounds of oil each day. At the same time, we have now spent 300 billion kroner on the oil fund. At the turn of the year, the government’s pension obligations were compared with NOK 2600 billion – ten times larger than the oil fund. It is estimated that pension liabilities will increase by DKK 185 billion only from 1999 to 2000. Next year, the total pension liabilities are estimated to grow by another DKK 194 billion. So even with the high oil revenues we now have, the state's pension liabilities are growing faster than we can build up the petroleum fund. Secondly, the public sector needs to be strengthened and renewed. Norway has seen very strong growth in public employment compared to other countries. Since 1980, the number of employees in the public sector in Norway has increased by over 50 pst. The growth in the euro area has been half of this. In Sweden, the number of employees in general government is about the same as 20 years ago. Nevertheless, there is a strong need for increased efforts in several areas. The Central Statistical Agency has estimated that the need for labour, in particular in the health and care sector, will increase by a total of 61 000 annual works until 2010, only as a result of the efforts we have already adopted. Labour force growth over the same ten-year period has been estimated at 100 000 persons. It underlines the need for efficient resource use. One of the first things this government did was to address the need for the renewal of the public sector. We want to strengthen the public sector. Then it must be renewed! In a short time, the government will present a public sector renewal programme. The switchover will lead to more production of services required by the population and less bureaucracy, control and regulation. The user's wishes shall be focused. Efforts to develop skills and improve efficiency shall provide better and faster services to the public. Thirdly, we must focus on the line of work in employment and social policy. Petroleum revenues give us a freedom of action that few other countries have. Our main resource, however, is the labour force. From a long-term perspective, the possibilities for developing welfare systems depend primarily on how effectively we are able to exploit the labour force and the knowledge that each of us has. Measures to strengthen the line of work in employment and social policy must also be of high priority for this reason. The value of our human capital is calculated to be about ten times the value of the petroleum fortune. That means, for example,. a reduction in average working time by 10 pst. through exclusion from the labour market or through lower retirement age, longer vacations, shorter daily working hours, increased sick leave or otherwise, our future income will be reduced as much as if the entire oil wealth were gone. The costs of the health pay scheme and disability benefit are now showing strong growth. Over the past five years, around one third of the total expenditure growth in the budget has agreed to cover the growth of these two schemes. In particular, the increase has been strong for the sick pay scheme. Since 1996, sick leave in the social security period has increased by about 40 pst. The estimated increase in sick leave over 2000 is about 10000 yearly. This means that about half of the growth in the workforce is going to cover the increased sick leave. The strong growth of transmission systems reduces the potential for growth in the economy and puts greater burdens on the active population. If the sick leave and the growth in the number of deaths had been at the same level as in 1996, we would have spent around 10 billion more on the 2001 budget. If the use of non-pension and sickness pay schemes continues to increase equally, the growth in public spending in the years ahead will only consume large parts of the economic space. In addition, economic growth will be lower because more and more people are out of ordinary work. Strengthening the line of work in employment and social policy, including: thus, by preventing exclusion from the labour market, it will be essential both for the freedom of action in the budget, for the size of economic growth and, in very many cases, for the well-being of the individual. The Norwegian economy is strong. The value creation is high. The welfare level is high. Unemployment is low. The government's 2001 draft budget provides the basis for continued good economic development. The government will further develop the Norwegian welfare community. A strong economy and a balanced economic development are necessary prerequisites for doing so. The government is presenting a budget where we are spending on the common good, a budget that gives more fairer distribution, a budget that provides security for work and the personal economy. The government invites Stortinget to cooperate on a forward-looking and responsible economic policy. We invite cooperation to further develop one of the world's best welfare societies and to ensure a fairer distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-04.ana.ud2459e428	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the 2001 government and national budget be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
