ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e44	Representatives Karin Andersen, John Dale and Ivar Østberg, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Åge Tovan For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Kjell Terje Fevåg For the Nordic region: Bears Olsen For Telemark County: Gunn Marit Helgesen From the representative, Dag Danielsen, is informed that he is withdrawing the granted permit application for the period from 4 December to 7 December. - This message is for dessert.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e84	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e87	On behalf of Lisbet Ruggtvedt and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to ban meat-and-bone meal in feed for domestic animals, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e92	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e104	The budgetary position of the Control and Constitutional Committee, which is unanimous, includes the Storting and the institutions subject to the Storing. That is to say, the Stortinge Ombudsman for the administration, the Riksrevision and the Stortinge Control Committee for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service. The defence of the Ombudsman is not the subject of the suspension, it is the responsibility of the Defence Committee. The budgetary position, which is also in line with the Presidency's original proposal, is based on a sober and well-founded material from the Administration of the Storting, the Ombudsman of the Administration, the EOS Committee and the National Audit Office, respectively. As the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs does not have any dissenting comments in relation to the proposals, I find, for my part, no reason for any further comments, except with regard to the budget of the Stortinge, to draw attention to the important investigative tasks that are now under way. First of all, it concerns the exercise of the control function of the Grand Duchy, which has a significant bearing on the scope of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, and in particular the provision that the Committee may carry out the administrative investigations it considers necessary for the control of the Grand Duchy's administration, or, in other words, how the Grand Duchy can enforce constitutional and parliamentary responsibility towards the Government and its members. This year’s own wide-ranging seminar of March, on the initiative of the President-in-Office of the Council, under the title ‘Is there a need for constitutional reform’, provided useful input through interesting introductions and subsequent debate in this way. Control is one of the tasks of any parliament, and control has been an institutional core task that the Stortinget has performed for its part since the autumn of 1814. However, the question now facing you is how you should or can intensify control functions and who they should include. The size doesn't know just the state councils. The second investigation concerns the working conditions of the depositors. Although, after more than 30 years of experience from life on the lion's tray, I will claim that there has been a silent revolution to it decidedly better, there is no doubt that there is a need for a thorough review of the possibilities and also obstacles and barriers that representatives face in their actions for people and for their country of origin. I recommend this budgetary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e122	In fact, as the chairman of the Committee was also concerned, there is not so much to add to the current consideration of the 2001 draft budget of the Control and Constitutional Committee. There is no disagreement between the administration and the suspension of the Presidency, the follow-up of the Government in the budget proposal, the proposals of the Control and Constitutional Committee and the decisions that will be taken here today in the Storting. However, I would like to make some comments about the position, and also remind everyone that not only big business representatives, but also the employees are here to carry out the constitutional tasks of the Stortinget. Everything else is subordinate to the tasks of the national Parliament. Therefore, anyone who has his daily tasks in this house must be aware that the administration and other service functions are the result of the 165 elected representatives' need for support functions in order to perform their duties. The parliamentary activities and the tasks that this requires are the very hub to which we are all linked. As we see it, the parliamentary and administrative part of the budget is mutually affected, and I believe after twelve years in this House that we have gradually succeeded in allocating resources to the representatives to such an extent that we can adequately maintain the balance between work in the national Parliament and contact with our respective electoral districts. In this way, there has been a raging development in the years I have been on Stortinget. Politically-professional support functions in the form of advisers linked to individual party groups have now been reinforced by an investigative section, which has worked for one year. From my own experience, I would like to underline and express that this is a support function that both qualitatively and functionally shows good beats. The salary conditions and other economic conditions of the representatives of the Storing have been raised to a level which, at least, does not prevent recruitment to the national Parliament. Significant resources are used for technical aids that are used and updated continuously, and I believe that the home office solution that is on the stairs will make it easier to combine presence in the capital and in the home state. I believe that such practical and economic framework conditions will be even more important in the future, and there will be even more factors that will affect the interest and the possibility of political activity. We cannot overlook the fact that, in many cases, it has become a considerable burden for the individual and his family to accept political representatives who require representatives to commute between family, family and work on the River Basin. Both spouses and children are involved in a completely different way from those who can live at home and have the work place on the Lion's Hill. The social confusion that will eventually come because people cannot maintain the daily contact and the usual circle of people is also a factor and a burden. In addition, it has been shown that more and more young children’s parents — fortunately — have chosen to engage in political work. How they get time for it and do it is almost a miracle, and I really admire those of our people who are able to combine the role of young children's parents and a working everyday life on the Stortinget. In this context, I have expectations of the committee set up by the Presidency to assess the working conditions of the representatives, on which the chairman of the committee was also involved. It was the Control and Constitutional Committee which raised in its budget position last year the issue of the working situation of representatives and the possibility to operate in a practical and political manner. By the end of January next year, the committee will give its opinion, and I hope the selection, and later the party groups and the Storting show the will and the sense to see this in a constitutional context, and do not shirk too much to short-term and populist moods. We want to neglect if we do not take the possible burden of opinion that it would be necessary to give the representatives of the population good and sufficient working conditions to carry out their practical and political tasks within and outside. This is a task that the Storting must take seriously in the future if a broad representation is to be ensured in the national Parliament, and that is the most important thing. Otherwise, I refer to the committee manager's articles and the settings that exist. I repeat that there are no inconsistencies here. So the last word is from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e141	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e155	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of response following the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and following contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e166	Since the figures relating to the area of the Justice Budget are well under way in the financial debate, which we had last week, the debate on justice is increasingly becoming a debate on the political content and the Committee has been able to agree on the leadership of justice policy in the next year. There's a lot of interesting things to do about this year's attitude. We are committed to measuring results both at the police, at the courts and in prison. It is very important for people's perception of legal certainty and their sense of being taken seriously when they are subjected to criminal acts. If we are to get to this, we must, among other things, bring down the remains of the police lawyers. It has been highlighted by the Years Committee as the main challenge in Norwegian criminal justice. We know today that average police proceedings should have been down to three months – 90 days. Reality is a completely different one. In a total of six police districts, the average duration of proceedings has now been more than eight months — eight months waiting time in criminal proceedings. It cannot continue. In addition, a total of nine districts have about seven months of average criminal proceedings. In addition to the waiting time at the police, waiting time comes to the courts and waiting time to get it convicted to pay for it. This means in short that those who have to deal with these special districts experience that they do not have sufficient legal certainty and that being subjected to a serious criminal act is not taken seriously enough by society. The entire committee hopes that when we receive the new communication on the new police districts, we will also receive proposals for the transfer of resources, so that those districts that have such a terrible situation in terms of processing time can get help. In the courts, it is gratifying that, in the case of city and county law, most cases of waiting time of three months are dealt with. But the law of the teamman is not very good at this, and it is especially Gulating in Bergen and Borgarting in Oslo that pulls up. They have a waiting time for the Court of Justice of 8.4 months and 7.5 months respectively, and it is long to wait. Many of these victims have first been in the city court, they've got a verdict there, and then they're an appeal, and so there's another seven-eight months in the law of the team. It is felt that the victim is repeatedly subjected to the assault, and I hope that the Minister of Justice of these two courts will be able to take concrete action to change the timing. The Committee has also asked for feedback from the Ministry on what will be done in concrete terms. It is also important to make a living in prison just after the final judgment has been passed. Today, we have a huge shortage of capacity in the prison system. It's partly due to a few of our central prisons, but it can also be due to a lack of routines to get people transferred quickly to the settlement. This is a work the Committee has called for both this year and last year, and here too we are saying that we are expecting a feedback to the Stortinget with concrete measures on how to bring the card down. One of the tools that's been used is the doubling of the cells, i.e. you zone two and two onto the cell. That's good. The committee says it's positive, and I also want to add that as long as not all cells are duplicated, one must at least not send people who have committed serious criminal acts into society again because one lacks individual cells. Over the last few years, there has been a lack of reaction capabilities in criminal children, children under the criminal detainee. In this respect, it is good for the Minister of Justice to say that a working group has been set up to assess criminal reactions and alternative responses to children and young people committing crime. However, it is very urgent that a case on such proposals be submitted. Already in the autumn of 1998, the Committee said that we would have an investigation into prevention and response to child criminals. In autumn 1999 and spring 2000, we discussed the action plan. It was full of prevention measures, but contained very few responses. So now it's the autumn of 2000, and we're still standing there without any reaction possibilities. I would say that spring 2001 should be a preliminary deadline for adoption, in order to confirm the response possibilities of this enlargement. We've also had a new type of crime. Information and communication technologies provide new opportunities and so-called ICT crime is an increasing form of crime. It ensures that the Committee is satisfied that the Ministry pays attention to this area. And we realize that as long as more and more criminals use new, advanced technical methods, it also presents us with challenges in adapting the law to these new ICT capabilities. A joint committee says that this is constantly going to need to adjust the legislation relating to electronic services, including telecommunications and data protection legislation, and I hope – just as we had the Methodology Committee a year ago – that the Ministry of Justice will come back with concrete adjustments where necessary. We have also had problems with some industries in the autumn that are important for the safety of people, including the taxi industry. When the taxi industry itself feels that they cannot dismiss drivers who represent a safety hazard to customers or who are at least not fit to be taxi drivers, it is a problem for the industry itself to be able to take care of its seriousness. That is why the Committee says that we support the requirement of both a certificate of good repute in the case of the recruitment of drivers and en route during the period of employment. We also say that action is important to enable industry to react itself to criminals in its own ranks. And then we must not experience that the Ministry of Justice is countering solutions that the police and the taxi industry have come together, such as taking the driver's ticket from some drivers who are not suitable for the job. Domestic violence is another theme we've spent time on. This is a growing problem, but it's not just a problem for the woman who gets exposed to it, it's a problem for the whole community. It also does something with children growing up in such homes, and it does something with their view of violence as a solution to problems. I would challenge the Minister of Justice to go through all the police chambers in the country and examine the practice of using public charges where women who have been subjected to violence do not dare to stand up. We know that this possibility is used in some police districts, but unfortunately too many districts look at the violence, but do not do anything, as long as the woman herself does not have sufficient resources or willingness to follow up. Of course, these challenges in the justice sector also require more funding. The right-hand side had primarily wanted 100 million. NOK to the police, not least to be able to hire police lawyers, we would have wanted $7 million. We would have liked an extra class at KRUS, we would have wanted to start up the resource department at Trondheim County Prison, we would have wanted more money for the student rights relief measures and support for the Fangers Family Association, which is making a very important prevention effort. We had that discussion in the financial debate, and we didn't get these frames. Of course, the joy of the framework to which the majority has been given is that the lawyers' salaries have been raised. But the right cannot accept that it is happening by charging new passports to ordinary families. We have therefore found an alternative containment, and present our own proposal within the framework with which we have to route. Finally, I will be allowed to point to a typographical error in the setting on page 11, where it is referred to last year's Budget. S. No 4, and then it says 2000-2001, but I assume it should have been 1999-2000. With these words I would like to be allowed to record Right-wing suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e198	Kristin Krohn Devold has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e203	I am very pleased that the chairman of the Committee in his speech focused on the important challenges and measures that we all agree on. We agree that something needs to be done, and mostly about how it should be done. Because it is the case in the justice policy that we actually agree on most and most important things. But the more disappointing and wonderful it is then that the right in the setting, among other things, is. concludes that, for the Government, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, the fight against crime is a priority and ignored. But what does the Right do when they have influence and influence on the budget? The 1998 budget was behind the conciliation. In front of that budget, both the Right and the Advance Party had profiled themselves in the fight against crime, and they boasted that they had dictated the budget result far on the way. And how did the budget for justice look that year? Well, it was granted NOK 1 billion less than the Workers' Party and the intermediate parties go for this year. That was more than 10 pst. lower than what we're going for now. It was a budget that the Right felt it was right to stand behind, while the year's budget is thus characterised as being such that the fight against crime is down-prioritized and ignored. What was it like in 1998, when it was $1 billion fewer to spend on crime? And that's despite the fact that the Right now wants to take away aid to strengthen the Justice budget. You want to take from the poorest, just those who are dragged into crime abroad. However, you could not even match the budget we are behind today. It's easy with harry money and big words when you're in opposition, but maybe you should consider your words in the setting a little bit better.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e213	With regard to the budgetary comparisons concluded between the Right, the Progress Party and the Centre, both budgetary agreements made significant increases in the judicial budget – 50 million. kr in the first year and 100 million. kr the second. And those who were hearing actors linked to the Justice Budget, among others. Police and prison staff agreed that there were important improvements, and they were given — for example: for the police – what they asked for. In the meantime, there has been an increase in fixed costs in both police and prison services. And not only that – it has been a Schengen adaptation that we are for, but which we admit is expensive. And that makes the same trade unions now crystal clear that the resources available to them to travel with this year are considerably lower than the funds available to them in the right years and the Progress Party was the budgetary partners of the centre. The police themselves say they need 100 million dollars. kr to be at the same level as you were at the time, and the spokespersons of the prison system say they lack 50 million. kr. That's the concrete input for us. And it's pretty strange in a budget debate to compare heads for heads when it's talking about different years, and when there's no taking into account developments in fixed costs, which doesn't give a single policeman into the street. When we agree on so much policy, it is still possible to criticise deficits on heads and ears. This budgetary agreement between the centre and the Workers' Party is moving in huge sums, but 2.7 million. fresh kroner were moved into the justice budget by the enormous sum. And it is clear that when it comes to bringing down the queues, both in the prison system and in police proceedings, it would have helped to have a little more than good words – including a few dollars on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e222	I appreciated the thorough and objective review of the committee's chairman's position – until she presented the Right's views. They weren't fit to create the big commitment in the negative direction either, because we knew about these things. It is precisely in connection with Right's own comments in the setting that I want to ask the representative Krohn Devold a question. When the majority constellation was to find out the areas where it was necessary for us to cut in order to accommodate the additions that had been agreed in the negotiations, we addressed ourselves in particular. to the department to find out where to cut. And then we got the answer back. We have come up with a number that is realistic in relation to the tasks and expectations of the Committee for the Ministry. In the position under the Ministry of Justice, the Right agrees: ‘It is important to maintain a good working environment that provides security and thus ensure good and efficient use of resources by all.’ And, furthermore, ‘It is therefore important that funds are used at any time for projects and research that could raise the level of knowledge underlying policy decisions.’ I wonder, where in the department is the right one going to get the money that they have extra to pull?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e240	I would like to begin by thanking the representative Marthinsen for his political content and saying – I remember so much from the budgetary procedure we had at the centre – that it has never been easy to find good cut posts with which the recipient of these cuts is particularly satisfied, nor in the department. But I would like to remind you that the Right Alternative Budget had a cut-off proposal of $5 million. kr in the Ministry of Justice, and the centre-worker partisan has a cut of 2,7 million. kr. So there's a difference of 2.3 million. kr. It is asked whether that figure provides the basis for the large disagreement between the Right and the budgetary alliance with regard to the Ministry. I would also like to say that of an administrative budget for the Ministry of Justice of 210.5 million. It will always be possible to find $5 million. kr that can be moved on. The truth is that as long as the police, the prison services and the courts do not have enough money to get away from their cows, do not have enough money for the most primary tasks and have to cut off unprofessional posts every single day, everyone – including the state's own bureaucracy, the department – must be willing to search with lights and lights. So I think of a budget of 210 million. I'll give you $5 million. kr to move on. And at least that's not the big difference between 2.7 million. NOK 5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e249	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e252	The Chairman of the Committee has given a good account of the Committee's position. Policies often consist of pure-breding contradictions. And, of course, there are differences of opinion in criminal policy. But it is expected, and I believe, that we politicians also have a responsibility to find comprehensive solutions that deliver results in the fight against crime and for a safer society. I also believe that today's attitude from the Justice Committee gives this main impression. The Committee has endeavoured to underline positions and solutions that bring together broad political consensus. It can in itself contribute to the security of most people and the credibility of politicians. We agree that combating crime is based on two main strategies: prevention and response. Preventing criminal acts requires efforts from increasing and strengthening cooperation across departmental and etat borders. The Committee has highlighted in particular the need to strengthen efforts towards children and young people in the risk zone, in interactions between home, school, volunteers, child protection, police and other public institutions. A good reproductive environment for children and young people is also a good criminal policy, but limits should be set and responses to unacceptable behaviour. Follow-up to criminal convictions in criminal custody with enhanced post-crime protection is necessary in order to try to prevent further crime. Increased visibility of the police is crime prevention, as is video surveillance at crime scene sites. Once someone has committed a criminal act, we are concerned that he will face a rapid reaction from society. There's a lot of mess here. We need improvements at all stages of the judicial system, from police and investigation through the courts to the criminal justice system. Of course, this requires resources, but changes in organisation, procedures and legislation are also necessary. We need clearer performance measurements in the various departments based on the objective of faster case resolution. Bottlenecks must be detected and responsibilities placed. This year, too, the Justice Committee has dealt with major issues that will contribute to a reinforced fight against crime. I would like to mention in particular changes to the police law and the establishment of a police directorate, increased Norwegian participation in international police cooperation, better protection of the actors in criminal matters, including the possibility of anonymous witnessing, and changes to the provisions of the Criminal Code on sexual offences in order to strengthen women and children's legal certainty and protection against sexual abuse. All matters have received broad political support. Combating and responding to violent crime still has to be one of the highest priority areas in criminal proceedings. I want to bring forth here violence against women and sexualized violence, forms of assault that unfortunately have been given too little attention for too long. In the newspaper last week, it was reported that the police have received far more reports of rape and attempted rape than in previous years. I think the numbers of the assaults are outrageous in themselves. We know from experience that sexual assault can be difficult to document, investigate and conduct in court, and that there are a few cases that result in prosecution and trial. We know that the numbers of darkness are large. I'm pleased with the changes we made in the penal code before the summer to give women better protection from sexual abuse. I am pleased with the increased attention this has received from the prosecution and the police. It is suggested that more reports are made because police and courts have gained more credibility in such cases. I hope so, and I hope that practice can confirm hope. Women must be able to be assured that they will not be subjected to sexual assault because they are women and that the unacceptable must be subjected to a strict response. Fortunately, most people are not exposed to criminal acts, but to those who become, it is a tragedy, and it creates uncertainty for many more. All work and action directed against violence and crime must be done in the deepest sense to protect and support the victims, or to avoid anyone becoming a victim of crime. The victim in the center means that we need to focus on the whole of crime policy. We need to strengthen the help, support and compensation arrangements for the victim. They must be given greater attention in the judicial system and more rapid procedures are necessary. The effort must be made where the problem is greatest, for example: violence related to the private sphere. We need to make a better effort to avoid anyone becoming a victim of criminal acts. I am pleased that the Committee has gathered on solutions that bring together broad political impetus, and I believe that this is the best basis for progress and dialogue with the Government to ensure better opportunities for more effective crime prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e275	Neither the Government nor its cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Center parties, want to give priority to the fight against crime. By the way, it is impossible to interpret the results of the year’s budgetary conciliation. The Labour Party government presented the worst police budget in many years, while the criminal service also had to endure a real decline in appropriations compared to last year. The budgetary agreement with the intermediate parties did not lead to any significant improvements, only to a minor adjustment. The biggest addition came in the lawyers' wallets in the form of increased legal fees. Fair enough, but it can hardly be called a substantial effort in the fight against crime. The central parties insisted on the budgetary agreement that they had been able to bring about changes in the billions class in relation to the Government's original draft budget. It was shown that you were able to get a majority to grant about half a billion extras to universities and research. But it was only possible to add insignificant sums of money to the most important role of society, the fight against crime and to ensure people's personal security. The results will show up at the end of the year when the budget funds have been used up in the individual police districts, and the gentlemen will be ordered not to move out to help the audience unless there is a direct danger to life and health, as has happened this year and happened last year and happened in the previous year. The result will be less likely for the police to engage in work other than research in reported cases, such as outreach activities to detect drug crime. The result is to be found in the form of still unreasonablely long periods of time between the notification of a case and the determination of whether the case should be ordered or brought to justice. The case-handling time today is unreasonably long, and the committee leader was also very concerned about that. At the Oslo Police Chamber, a recent example was that it took 12 months from one person was notified to have lowered NOK 5000 in the box in a store until the case was finished. The consequence of such a situation is either that an innocent person is subjected to long-term uncertainty, with the personal discomfort it brings, or that a criminal forgets the whole matter before it comes into court and thus does not get the clear and quick signal he should get that crime is not the way to go. The result of this year's budgetary settlement is also that there has not been a single ear for new police positions. This will lead to great uncertainty for the more than 400 police high school students we need in the streets to fight crime – now I'm thinking about the high school. Now they don't know if they'll be able to get a job in the police when they're finished at school. In contrast to the last two years, they have also received no pre-requisite commitment to provide additional funds in the revised budget. The Joint Police Association has documented a deficit in the police budget of more than 100 million. kr and considers that it is necessary to increase the operational funds by 230 million. kr in relation to the Government's proposal to avoid the problems I referred to last year. The Norwegian Prison and Free Care Association believes it is necessary to close to 50 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposals for criminal justice. Both parts are pointed out in a note from the Right and the Advance Party. In other words, the right has perceived the problems, but does little to solve them. Despite this need pointed out, at 290 million. In addition to the Government's proposals for these two areas alone, the Right has found in its alternative budget proposal only money for an increase of 110 million. kr to the entire justice sector. It shows that neither the Right takes the problems sufficiently seriously, but, of course, the problem is taken significantly more seriously than the Government and the intermediate parties. The Progress Party has on its side invested money to ensure the police high school students work, to set up a new police helicopter service, for enough resources for the police, for both new office positions and new legal positions. At the same time, the Progress Party significantly strengthens the courts and criminal services in line with the Government's proposals and proposed a rise of 357 million in financial positions. kr. Unfortunately, the majority of people have already voted in favour of this proposal. The only thing that can be done now is a few minor adjustments within the far too low and irresponsible frameworks adopted by the majority. The Party has submitted a number of such proposals, which have been put forward repeatedly in the vote, and they have been taken up accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e293	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e298	Jan Simonsen swung as usual to the great heights. He has done so in part of the comments of the Progress Party in the budgetary position. However, what I feel is the actual relationship with the judicial policy that has been pursued during this period is that we have taken a wide range of criminal policies where the starting point is largely unanimity. I'll point that out again. The list is long, I'm not going to do it here, it's not time. But I feel it's the most central thing that's left in relation to what's driven by politics. So to what goes directly into the budget. The Progress Party says that they note that this year’s budget for justice is the worst that has been proposed for many years. I made a small comparison with the budget two years ago, which was also included in the Progress Party. In the courts, there's a $79 million increase. DKK or equivalent 8.7 pst., police 643 million. kr or 12,4 pst., Criminal Service 162 million. kr or 13,4 pst. I heard the representative, Mr Devold,'s explanation for the participation of the Right in that budget. I think that this is an explanation that is not entirely in touch. For in any case, some measures are being taken, such as those relating to Schengen, to strengthen the policy to be pursued. But what I'm a little interested in is the Progress Party's explanation of how they can say that this is the worst budget in many years, when, after all, they agreed to adopt a budget two years ago, and the year's budget is significantly higher. In any case, it must be that, two years ago, the budget was not at such a disastrous level. That's what I'm going to assume is the conclusion of the budgetary comment that Jan Simonsen had.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e309	When it comes to the last question, I refer you to the committee leader's answer to the same question, which I think was excellent. Of course, you can't just look at how much money is spent, without looking at how much money has been spent in the same period, and what the money is spent on. It's the way this is, as far as I can remember, the first budget I've been in since I joined the Justice Committee – and this is my second period in this committee – where no more money has been put into new posts. Nor was it in the proposal made by Minister of Justice Dørum last year, but at least in our committee we got to a system that was obliged to add extra funds to secure work for the police high school students when they finished their studies for the summer, so that there was therefore a good deal of new police positions in the current year as well. But in the year to which this budget applies, there is no funding for new police posts. Most of the increase in the budget goes to the creation of the new Police Directorate. Operational resources are not sufficient, and police's own organisations say that there is as much as 230 million missing. kr that it has been done. I agree with the questioner that there have been some positive things in the justice sector in recent years. Norwegian justice policy is today on the premises of the Progress Party, rather than on the premises of the Socialist Left as before. This has led the Committee, on a proposal from the Progress Party, to follow up some of the proposals, but far from it, and has not gone as far as necessary. There are still enormous problems and huge shortcomings today. It's enough to show that there are 1,300 people who have been convicted, waiting for more than two months for prison and that crime has become significantly tougher than it was a few years ago. Therefore, there is a need for completely different measures than what the majority here is willing to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e318	It's always interesting to listen to the representative Simonsen. It has a great entertainment value, because here it's drawn both equally and differently. I don't always know if I think it's a comic field or if it's the tragedy that's the most prominent. But the ability to represent reality is at least well-developed. Not least, when, year after year, the police have experienced that resources have been allocated, the irresponsibility is underlined every year as a penalty. It may well be something that is already on the agenda of the Progress Party – without my having studied it very carefully – that is to be said in any debate by the Parliament to describe those who take responsibility. Because that is my main point: the Progress Party does not need to give priority to anything; they have money for everything. And that's the big difference between the Progress Party and other responsible parties here on the Stortinget. The progress party has a bag where they can only draw up what they need for any good purpose. Had it been so well, we would certainly have been involved, but some of us have to give priority. And that's the priorities expressed in these settings. Does the representative Simonsen think that the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, and in which they are so powerful, are suitable to impress any future partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e325	I'm not out to impress the representative Marthinsen, I'm out to solve a serious problem for the entire Norwegian population. I am also not looking to engage in entertainment, but after solving something that is very serious. And it's very serious when politicians around the country at the end of the year have to give orders to their employees not to move out when there's an invasion or crime, unless there's a danger to life and health, if this happens after four o'clock in the afternoon. It also shows that there may not be sufficient staff in the police or sufficient resources for the operation. When this problem recurs year after year, politicians should perhaps see that something has to be done here. And that's what the representative Marthinsen quite rightly says, this is a matter of prioritizing. It is not right that the Progress Party has money for everything. I spent four years as a member of the Culture Committee. I can assure the representative Marthinsen that I got my ears peeled when I was at various meetings and had to say no to grant money. So this is actually about how you want to spend the money, and what you think is most important. If you think it's most important to spend money on the agricultural side, on unhelp, opera or whatever, it's okay. I believe, and the Progress Party believes, that combating crime, as well as combating disease and strengthening health care and care for the elderly, is one of the most important things. That's where the public resources need to be inserted. I then find that when the middle parties were able to reach a budgetary settlement this year, priority was given. Research and universities were prioritised with nearly half a billion dollars in addition to what the Government had proposed. And that's okay. It's probably fun for research and fun for universities, probably useful money there. But they chose not to prioritize the police. And then you have to take the consequences – I hope in the first choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e334	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e337	The budgetary agreement between the centre parties and the Workers' Party made the changes mentioned in the vote. I would like to link comments only to a few of the posts: an increase of 31 million. to lawyers' fees in order to maintain the agreement on a contingency plan for the salary rate concluded between the Association of Lawyers and the Ministry of Justice under the Central Government to strengthen the police and county staff seat by 17 million. In spite of budgetary growth, it is well known that many police districts will continue to have tight operating budgets. The Christian People's Party will point out the need for efficient use of resources and clear performance targets. Further studies, including: from the National Audit Office, shows that there is room for improvement also within the existing framework. A transition to the framework budget for the entire police and civil servants’ seat from the 2001 budget is expected to stimulate better resource use and adaptation to different needs in the police districts. The entire Committee has submitted a note on police helicopters, and asks the Ministry to come to Stortinget with it as a matter of its own during the spring of 2001. The Committee also asked the Ministry to review the dietary benefit of its own helicopter service in the budget-inner police department. S. No 4 for 1999-2000. However, the value of daily standby for a separate helicopter service in the police department is not factored into the position of the task force. It is essential to assess the police’s need for helicopter support that this is involved in future alternative assessments. The testing system of police helicopters has been evaluated, and good experience has been shown. Police and surveyors are uniquely positive for the establishment of a fixed helicopter service. Most European countries have such a service, and Sweden has more police helicopters. Their experience should also be included in this process. Out of areas that should be assessed in terms of needs and benefits, cleanness, car chases, roadless terrain escapes, missing search, environmental crime and smuggling. Equally important is an assessment of cooperation with the traffic monitoring traffic actions of helicopters in relation to the vision of no fatal or serious damage to traffic. Following driving patterns, passing by and speeding with the overview you have from a helicopter is effective and must also be included in the assessments. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the reorganisation launched by the Bondevik government in the Ministry of Justice and the underlying agencies is being continued. It is positive that the Ministry’s file volume is reduced and concentrated on key areas of justice policy such as legal work, the courts, the police, the criminal justice system and the legal certainty of individuals and groups. This reorganization process has probably been a trio, alongside the issues that we in the Committee have had to deal with. Many important changes have to be made on 1 January 2001 and 10 changes are listed in the proposal and cancellation. Security and legal certainty are fundamental values in society. Crime is an attack on the security and integrity of individuals and on community values. The causes of crime are complex and diverse. This is why different measures are needed in many areas of society. We have to have many thoughts in our head at the same time to find the best and most effective measures, and there are no simple solutions. The Community needs good living rules, which both point to the individual's responsibility for their own actions and also to the individual's responsibility for the best interests of the Community. The Value Commission describes violence as an attack on human health, self-esteem, security and quality of life. Violence has three main arenas: home workplace/school street/public places Studies show that the violence and threat cases are divided quite equally between the three arenas. Women and men appear to be subjected to violence in different arenas. Men are subjected to violence on the streets or outdoors in the city, while women are subjected to much more domestic violence. Private violence is widespread and must be made visible. Domestic violence is often very rough, takes place over a long period of time and affects mainly women and children. The perpetrators are mainly present or former spouses, cohabitants or others who are standing or have been offended. Media has shown that nearly 40 women have been killed by this category of violent perpetrators in recent years. Women with visible disability and dependence on others are more likely to be affected. Many of them will physically have difficulty avoiding threatening situations. It may be difficult to seek help, for example: poor accessibility for persons with reduced mobility to crisis centres. It is documented in the investigation of violence that many women remain under abuse because the possibilities of economic autonomy are perceived as small. In addition, many depend on the practical assistance provided by the attacker. This contributes to less violence than for other women being reported and reported. Here, it is important to pay particular attention and to find practical solutions, including when it comes to assessing public prosecution. Every year between 7,000 and 9,000 women are raped in Norway. Of the reported rapes, only one in ten men are convicted. Rape is the most underreported crime committed. There are now reports of increased numbers for reviews, and that's good. The action plan on violence against women, as presented by the Bondevik government, shall be followed up. Own procedures for the reception of victims of violence and rape by all medical officers shall be established. The Ministry of Justice and its agencies shall develop higher competences in relation to domestic violence and sexualised violence. However, it will be an important task for the police, prosecution authorities and courts to ensure that these notifications are effectively followed up. There may still be some lack of both competence and willingness to prioritize such issues. These are matters on which the Judicial Committee has launched a search and which must continue to be followed up by the Ministry of Justice. To quote 52 of the Value Commission’s ‘Vold in Norway’: ‘A society with less violence means a society where people are both willing to engage in conflicts and respond to violence, and create good communities that include both violent and violent victims. Long-term changes in the amount of violence are more related to changes in the community of everyday life than to specific measures against violence by the authorities.» ‘Sivile guardian’ is an entry in the budget of the judiciary. In Norway, we have laid the foundations for the defence of the country, where all civil and military resources are best used in an overall defence effort. It also facilitates cooperation between civil and military activities in order to prevent and manage crises and disasters in peacetime. The Ministry of Justice has set up experimental activities to develop new forms of civil protection service. Particular attention has been paid to identifying forms of work that enable civil guardians to engage in the violence and conflict prevention service among young people. A form of training and selection should be provided to ensure that the result is good for this service. The Ministry of Justice should also assess civil guardians in relation to the vulnerability of our society, which is a topical issue, and how training for defence in many areas of society can be involved, for example. in pre-school education and for which civil guardians may be used. The representatives Krohn Devold and Bjørnstad have addressed important challenges on which the entire committee is committed and agreed, so in my post I have instead chosen to elaborate some areas in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e395	The fight against violence, violence and crime is an important area for the Central Party. Our goal is a safer, warmer and fairer society. The strategy of the Central Party in the fight against crime is a comprehensive policy in which work for all, social protection and small differences are important. Safe and stable growth conditions for children and young people and well-developed schools are as important in the fight against crime as for example. strengthening the police. Crime has an impact on people’s well-being in two ways – directly by reducing the well-being of those who are subjected to violence or theft, and indirectly, crime also affects other and larger groups of the population in terms of insecurity and anxiety, i.e. loss of quality of life. When we take stock of the evolution of crime in recent years, we will find that there is cause for concern. Particularly alarming is the increase in drug crime. The increase in the reported crime of violence and the number of threats are also of great concern. Crime statistics give a picture of actions that people choose to report to the police, i.e. image of the crime recorded. There is no doubt that parts of the statistics have high darkness. It is a major challenge for all of us to work to reduce the actual crime of violence and morality. We all agree that combating crime is not a responsibility for criminal justice alone. This important work shall prevent criminal offences and the development of criminal behaviour by individuals. If one is to succeed in this work, it is of utmost importance that society's ability to include everyone through school and working life, show care to those who are weak, and distribute well-being fairly, be exploited. In the Central Party, we are pleased that the Government is following up the central government's efforts to streamline and renew the justice sector through the reorganisation of the Ministry of Justice and its underlying agencies. It is important that the Ministry of Justice becomes a smaller, simpler and more manageable department. It allows the Ministry to spend more time on core tasks and less time on administration and day-to-day operational tasks. In the Central Party, therefore, we have great expectations of changes resulting from the decisions taken by the Stortinget and to be implemented by 1 January 2001. The main changes are the creation of a police directorate, the regionalisation of criminal services and the transfer of responsibility for lotteries and games to the Ministry of Culture and the establishment of a lottery supervision. The aim of the Central Party's policy is to provide everyone with a job to go to and secure the basis for the welfare society. The budgetary settlement of the year takes good account of these considerations. The budget agreement further invests in the justice sector in order to speed up proceedings throughout the criminal justice chain. The criminal chain shall be strengthened by increasing the capacity of the police and officers’ seats, facilitating the speeding-up of judicial proceedings and emphasising the content of compensation in order to reduce the relapses into new crimes. In the Central Party, we are very pleased that we have put in place the stepping-up plan for the public salary to which the central government committed itself and which was not followed up in the Government's draft budget. In the draft budget, the Ministry decided not to continue the grant scheme in order to improve the access of qualified applicants to places of employment which have had difficulties in recruiting. I am very pleased that a joint committee has stated that it is aware that more police districts are still struggling with the recruitment of police-trained officials, and therefore ask the Ministry to report back to the revised 2001 national budget on how the recruitment situation in the police districts has developed. Furthermore, we are pleased with the Committee's comments on police helicopters. With regard to job opportunities for the last major high school of police high school, I am also pleased that an overall committee asks the Ministry to come back to the Stortingen in the revised national budget for 2001 with an updated assessment of the situation. It gives Stortinget the freedom of action to take the necessary steps to ensure that the students work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e429	The SV's alternative proposals for the government budget, presented in the financial position, involve some proposals for changes to what the government presented, and, in particular, to what was presented in the budget agreement, which is that we are stepping up our efforts to be more obsessive in criminal matters, in freedom of justice, in freedom of justice and in conflict advice. These proposals fell in the context of the consideration of the financial position, and we are not going to re-examine them. I therefore intend to use my contribution to make some comments on the policy lines in the budget position of the Judicial Committee, where SV is not represented. SV agrees that there is a problem related to the children and young people who are under the criminal valvaldeler and who commit some serious crimes. I also agree that one looks at whether there are other types of responses to childhood and juvenile delinquency than what you have today. But we will warn against believing that this can be achieved unilaterally through criminal acts. Because we have seen in many other countries that when you lower your age, you are being pushed down into increasingly lower age groups — that is, teenagers are starting to commit significant and serious crime, and it is very much about children who are excluded from a community and who are so easily getting caught up in someone who wants to take advantage of them. It is extremely important to have the main focus here on how to manage to include children in a community, that they are not being pushed out, because as members of gangs or under regimes where the gangs can always use much stronger represals than a legal state can ever use, then perhaps some of the responses that come from society, on the contrary, will help that child or the youth slip even closer into a bunch – capsules even closer. For example, to stand for public spit and spit and wash tagging or clean in the park so that everyone can see that here it is a juvenile criminal who makes up for himself, I think I can be a status in some environments, instead of that it seems deterrent and vice versa. So here it's about doing the senses. We await what may come from the Minister of Justice on this. There has been a lot of discussion about the taxi business and the piracy business — well-deserved — over the past few weeks and months, because it is a very extensive piracy activity, and very openly, at night in all the big cities, and perhaps even in smaller places, but I have seen it in seas, and it is absolutely amazing how openly this illegal gesture is actually going on. So I sincerely want you to join the municipality in question, for example. Oslo Municipality, and the police think of several types of instruments that effectively combat piracy. It undermines respect for law and order, undermines the seriousness of the taxi industry, and not least undermines the safety of passengers – which in thin pantyhose at four o'clock at night falls in cold for the temptation to take a car they should not have taken. These activities may have significant and serious consequences. SV is also concerned about domestic violence, and we would like to see a bit of a turn around in how women and children who are subjected to domestic violence are treated today. For the opportunity they have today is to escape to a crisis centre or to a family, if they do not behind the door they lock again – where most of us others are at least safe – feel secure. Instead, you should think a lot more about how to move the rapist out, so that women and children who are today exposed to domestic violence can be safe in their own homes and be safe from abuse. That means that we probably need a change in the law at this point, that the women who are exposed to this should automatically be given a violent alarm, and that they should automatically also be given psychological assistance/medication. This is a major problem of violence in Norway. It's also the way that violence produces violence, that is. that the children who are beaten at home when they are young are the ones who knock on the street when they are young and who beat their own children when they have it. This is the area where one can most effectively deploy resources to combat violence in general in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e442	It is the last budget for the justice sector in this great period that we are debating today. For this reason, it may be natural to look back and forth in relation to the objectives of justice policy and in relation to the results obtained. For the Labour Party, it has been an overarching objective to see the justice sector in a healthy and prioritized way to the sector under such a mandate. We're busy creating security for people, security against fear and assault. The basis for this creates a society of small differences, where everyone has to deliver according to ability and get as needed. Crime can to some extent be explained by social conditions, but not defended from the same point of view. The individual's need for security, law and order must therefore be given priority. Within the justice sector, a visible police force, courts that are effective and have the knowledge to judge fairly, and a criminal justice system that works to prevent the convicted, are important for individuals to feel secure. The justice sector is important for individuals in this country. Therefore, it is important to have knowledge and to use it so that we get good lawmaking, ensure good criminal prosecution and secure knowledge of political contexts and causes. In one area, all the parties have stood together in words for these four years. It applies to the fight against violence. It is the highest priority in criminal policy. This is particularly true of the fight against home government, which affects children and women. Let's think of a world without power against women, let's think of Norway without power against women. It would be a safe value and a safe country. With globalisation, we see that the sex trade with women is the fastest increasing crime internationally. The government often treats these women as illegal immigrants, as criminals and not as victims. It is a step forward in Norway that the majority here in Stortinget wants the UN Women's Convention to be incorporated into Norwegian law. The action plan of the UN Women's Meeting in Beijing to implement a long series of measures to combat violence against women also obliges our country, our work in international forums, our legislation and our preventive work. These questions need to be high on our list when Norway is about to take up the UN Security Council. I'm glad that a public women's election selection is going to be set up, to get a public debate and to see a big social problem. This has been a battle cause for the Workers' Party's women's movement, for this is a social problem for which women should not get involved and feel guilty. This is the work of the Bergen Police Chamber and the Stovner Police Chamber, by drawing up an action plan to reduce this type of power, so encouraging. I hope and believe that this will give a contagion effect to all the country's police chambers. Another area where the Judicial Committee has been involved is jurisdictional matters. For a long time, women have been asked not to report election because the vast majority of cases have been dismissed due to lack of evidence. We can't have it that way. Evidence must be secured already from the first visit to the barn, and all evidence, from dress to other things, must be automatically stored for a reasonable period of time, so that a woman can decide whether she will report the matter. The police should be trained to receive these women, so that they feel security. They must have a defender who has come to trial before they go to court. The fact that Kripos does not give priority to electoral cases against adult women, when the Advocate General has indicated that selection is to be given priority next after killing, is alarming. I'm assuming that this is going to be a priority. This is not a single woman's problem, it's a big social problem. During this period, the Judicial Committee has included the Stortinget on a number of measures that will improve the situation of women exposed to violence. I will briefly mention some areas: their penal code, when it applies to electoral law, is extended to include those who threaten to engage in sexual intercourse. The overall definition is expanded in relation to child abuse. Precautionary jurisdiction is a criminal offence. Cookie law has been changed. The offender shall not be held legally responsible for the false nature of the claim. The purchase of sexual services from children under 18 years of age is punishable. Persons convicted of child abuse are banned from work. Any use of pornographic material is punishable. – This is important for court decisions in the future. As I said, for over four years, the Judicial Committee has been busy with the local authorities and that it needs greater attention, both from the police and from the prosecution authorities. There have been changes in the perception of the problem, but it is a long way to go before we can settle down on the fact that the power against children and women is over. I am therefore pleased that the Ministry of Justice will launch a research project aimed at systematically monitoring the victims of the electoral campaign in response to police and prosecution. It's only when we get general knowledge and the government's open talk that this is a social problem that can't be left to women, that we can deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e465	I would like to touch on some areas of the 2001 Justice budget. Our party will conclude that in order for the criminal justice chain to work well, we must ensure a balanced and flexible supply of resources to the police and courts and see all this in context. If this is not reconciled, the supply of resources could lead to a build-up of issues elsewhere. I also refer to the alternative draft budget of the Progress Party, which proposes an increase in the allocation to the courts of a total of 40 million. kr. We believe that in a democracy and in a legal society one depends on well-functioning courts. It is therefore important that the courts have broad confidence in the population and society. Good recruitment to the profession of judge is necessary if the courts are to retain and further develop their role in Norwegian society. At the same time, we would stress that legal certainty for individual citizens is one of the most important basic prerequisites for a stable society. In its 99 courts there are a total of 82 warehouses or premises in other buildings. During 2000, provision is to be made for, inter alia: new Moss City Law premises along with Moss Police District. We will stress the importance of the appropriate premises for the Moss court, and see the benefits of the simultaneous completion of Moss city and Moss police districts, but the overall implementation of the work. In the case of the settlement councils, we would like to further assess the legal certainty surrounding them and show, among other things, that they are not legal. the Court of Justice of the European Communities considers that the professional background of the settlement councils is too poor. The Conciliation Council has the right to dismiss a Judge and has extensive jurisdiction, but the members who are largely appointed politically rarely have any legal or educational competence. That is why we believe that if one is still to have an agency in the Norwegian legal system such as the Conciliation Board, parts of the composition should be changed. We would also like to stress, in the context of criminal justice, that we are interested in the establishment of a prison department that can run a so-called "New Life" programme under the auspices of the Prison Fellowship organisation, like Stiffinder, at Oslo County Prison. This is a programme that helps prisoners to choose a life without drug abuse and crime and has led to a radical reduction in the repetition of criminal offences in other countries. I noticed that the representative Nymo agreed to this in his statement, but that he has not joined it in the comments of the committee. I'm sorry. I would also refer to our proposal regarding the rescue helicopter service. We want to strengthen the chapter and have proposed an increase of 30 million in our alternative budget. kr. It is worth noting the great effort and effort that individuals and non-governmental organisations make to benefit all kinds of marine and land rescue operations in this country. The service is therefore unique in an international context, based on Norwegian traditions and Norwegian infrastructure. We want to expand the resources of the rescue services in the form of adequate personnel on our coastal rescue helicopters. Today it is a threat that they are too badly manned. Finally. When it comes to priorities, as the representative of the Christian People's Party said we did not have, we have concrete evidence that we will give priority. We would like, among other things: reduce the cost of civil guardians by 31.5 million. kr – the entire pot for the administration and servicing of civil guardians is EUR 231 million. kr. This is based on the expected number of applications for military service exemption. It leads to a line of crews waiting for the service of community service. Many of the service assignments go to so-called cultural and peacemaking work. However, as a clear and unambiguous objective, the Progress Party aims to increase the number of personnel in military service and to reduce the cost of civil service expenditure in its alternative budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e489	I think it must be possible to establish a joyous thing on behalf of Norwegian society, and that is that for a number of years there has been a considerable effort to step up the fight against crime. It concerns resources allocated to the police, in terms of the reorganisation of the police, including: by the soon-to-be-function police directorate and new investigation methods. When this happens, I think it is reasonable on behalf of Norwegian citizens to also ask for concrete results of the reorganisation that has taken place. It does not mean that it is not legitimate to hold a debate on resources that is needed, and I think it is a debate that you can always hold. I will not comment on it since; there is a budgetary agreement between the central parties – the Left, the Central Party and the Christian People’s Party – and the Workers’ Party, but I believe that regardless of the resource situation, there should be a potential for getting through what has been introduced, through reorganisation and through new research methods. I commend the police for having for many years run a successful trade union fight to get the salary up – congratulations. I think it is good that through joint efforts and efforts by different governments, the Storting has been able to reorganize, and I think it is good to have been able to agree on research methods, but then you can also expect results. This includes, inter alia: clearly expressed on the part of the Advocate-General, and I, for my part, would just like to underline it from the Chair of the Grand Duchy. With regard to the budgetary position, I am personally very pleased that the budget for 2000 has been followed up in the budget agreement. I then aim to ensure that the salary agreement between the Norwegian Bar Association and the Ministry of Justice has been followed up in the budgetary agreement concluded between the central parties and the Labour Party Government. I think it wasn't good that it wasn't in the budget, because it was an agreement in a matter that had long sunk--literally. And when it was cleaned up in it, it was not good that it was not followed up, but it is all the more joyous that it is now in place through the budget agreement. I am looking at following up this agreement in the same way as I am looking at the addition of legal aid measures among students. It's a handshake to legal certainty. It's a handshake for those who may be the weakest when it comes to accessing legal resources, so you can be sure that they will receive the necessary assistance. On behalf of the Left, I am also pleased that the budget setting indicates that we will have a separate case about the rescue helicopter service during the spring. It would come this year, but when it comes, I would like to stress that one of the most important things is to make sure that something is done about the reaction time, and I would like to encourage the Council of State and the Department to look closely at the experiences that, among other things, is present after the ‘Sleipner’ accident. In the budget position, there are a number of specific areas that have been commented on, and I will carefully comment on two of them. One concerns the relationship between serious and organised crime. Here, I believe it is very important that what has been the subject in several contexts of the Storting, namely the development of protection measures for witnesses, is followed up. I am aiming for witness protection measures both in Norway and in the Nordic context because I am convinced that this is necessary for the malicious crime we are facing. I also see such protection measures in relation to another point mentioned in the budget proposal, which the Committee has highlighted, namely the fight against violence against women – violence in society. I am very pleased that I was in a government that could provide an action plan for this, but I am even happier that in Norway it is that the government that came after felt obliged to take care of it, further develop it and strengthen it in this area. I think it is very important that the police should meet in a realistic way those who are subjected to this kind of violence, so that the police are always aware of what it means to be harassed in this way and so do their utmost to ensure that those who are overlooked in the matter of violence against women should know that they are seen and heard when they address the police. I'm sure the Council of State will follow it up, but I think it's important to underline it from this pulpit. In addition, I am very busy working on developing alarms that can not only be in the individual's home, but which are portable, which can be carried around in open places. I am concerned that there will be an extra safeguard. I also hope that the work that has been done to give the opportunity to change the number of the person will be done, because in this country we will be more easily tracked on the number of the person than on the name. The person number is such an important key in a modern society that it is not possible to change the person number when one is subjected to gross violence, in one way or another, to lose the protection that one should have. I see that the committee has made strong references to this, and I just want to underline it from the left. With these words, I am pleased that the budgetary agreement has strengthened legal aid measures and legal fees, and that there has also been a transfer of money to the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e512	This is the eighth budget for justice that I get to follow. It's been an exciting episode. Major changes have occurred in the justice sector during the 1990s. Unfortunately, the most striking thing about crime is how international gangs organise serious crime across borders. In Norway, too, we are more affected by drug trafficking and human trafficking and the exploitation of children and women in prostitution. Despite a triple financial effort against drugs, it is used as never before. In order to take the backers, we must have international cooperation, and after several years of work, it now appears fortunately that Schengen cooperation will be good. New types of crime also require police to use new methods in extreme cases, as recently opened by the Committee. Furthermore, our efforts are coordinated through the establishment of a Council to combat organised crime. There have been major upheavals, especially in three areas, in the last few years, and they are so big that they can almost be called a silent revolution. First of all, it is in criminal matters. Visiting prisons in 2000 is like visiting a completely different world from what it was just back in 1993. A few years ago, Gest Baardsen’s 200-year-old criticism – institutions were described as criminal schools that provoked crime instead of the reverse – continued to be relevant. The vast majority of employees considered themselves key bearers, but there were some enthusiastic idealists who wanted to do more. Today, most employees are enthusiasts who regard their role as very central to getting it condemned away from a criminal life, and over into a more meaningful everyday life. The paper on criminal care, such as: established the principle of settlement plans and contact officers, has been a late but good contribution to that development. Now it is important that idealistic work is not suffocated by too little money. One of the remaining things is to find good solutions for effective and firm responses in young people aged 12 to 18 who commit criminal acts, as the Government is doing. Secondly, there have been major upheavals in the police case. At the same time, the establishment has been strongly strengthened, including: through more than 3000 new police posts, there has been reorganisation to get more effective police and police out among people. In the future, it is important that the police play an even greater role in prevention. We need to have better organized and closer cooperation between police, school, child protection, psychiatry and social affairs. It has produced good results where it has been implemented, such as: in Sarpsborg. Thirdly, we have had a silent revolution in the view of offended people. The interests of those who have been subjected to criminal activity must also be safeguarded in our police and judicial system. It began with the 1994 report on victims of violence, which has since been followed up by several small and large cases. We're moving towards a society where the trial also belongs to offended people. But it is frustrating that it should be so difficult to get the police, prosecution authorities and courts to use the opportunities provided to strengthen the situation of offended people, it is a visitation ban, expert assistance from Kripos in rape cases, proper reception for victims of rape, expulsion of defendants from the courtroom, the imposition of a professional ban – yes, the list can be made long. We've made a lot of good decisions. The government has many good projects in progress and has largely focused on violence and abuse against women. But it can be frustrating to see how big political truffles are needed to get a police and judicial system permeated by old-fashioned attitudes to take a roof in this area. Today, legal protection is better for men than for women in this country, and personal freedom is greater for men than for women. It is not a civilised, equal legal society worthy. There is something fundamentally wrong when a half-full, obscene man in a nightclub queue who is being shut down experiences better police and court follow-up than a woman who is being beaten down in her own home. The home is statistically the most dangerous place to stay for a woman. Why don't the police take out public charges in more of these cases? A woman is viewed as so stupid that she almost deserves most if she should get into a pirate taxi or go home alone in the evening, while a man who does the same is smart who avoids the taxi queue. In the case of asylum questioning, the man is still the main person. The woman’s history of persecution and rape often does not appear. Also in Norway, we see assaults on women, such as circumcision and forced marriage, and we hear about honorary drap. The government is holding a high pressure on this area. But there's also a need for jam.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e538	Internationally organised crime is one of the greatest challenges we face in the fight against crime. Drug trafficking, exports of stolen cars, trafficking in human beings, financial crime and prostitution are examples of criminal activity across borders. In the last case, prostitution, there's scary numbers out there and going. One makes the bill about 2 million. girls between 5 and 15 years of age each year are placed on the commercial sex market. Every year about 500,000 women are recruited from developing countries and countries in Eastern and Central Europe to the sex industry in Western Europe, and also to Norway. Here we have a huge challenge! The increasing internationalisation of the economy, not least in terms of technological developments, has led to the emergence of new advanced forms of crime and the re-testing of the police. Whether traditional or new forms of crime are involved, strong international police cooperation is required to combat the cross-border criminal activity. In this arena, Norway must be a strong and central participant. From the Norwegian side, both Økokrim, Kripos and the Police Monitoring Service, POT, must be key actors. In St.meld. No 18 for 1999-2000, Norway’s participation in international police cooperation was carefully reviewed in Norway’s participation in existing police cooperation. I do not intend now to mention all the cooperation relations in which the Norwegian police are involved, but will underline the need for the efficiency and coordination of the various types of cooperation. For example, the Interpol European Agency must: be coordinated with the European cooperation bodies we have. The starting point for Norway is that we should channel as far as possible our international work through the international forums for police cooperation. Nevertheless, it was correct and necessary for us to enter into a bilateral agreement with Russia in 1998 on the exchange of information on, inter alia, terrorism, drug crime, financial crime, theft and violation of customs law. The existing crime scene also implies strong Norwegian and Nordic involvement in the Baltic Sea region. This is why, among other things: the work of the Baltic Sea Task Force on Organised Crime, or the BSTF, of great importance. Schengen cooperation, in which we will be fully involved from 25 March next year, will be a very important factor in combating crime. Effective external border control will be of great importance. Interesting is also the other cooperation initiated in the justice and police sector between the cooperating Schengen countries. Europol became operational from 1 July 1999. In dealing with the above-mentioned notification, a single judicial authority indicated that Europol is now the EU Member States’ main measures to prevent and combat serious organised crime. Therefore, Norway must establish a third country agreement with Europol as soon as possible. The crime areas within the Europol mandate are illegal trafficking in nuclear material, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in lost vehicles, trafficking in human beings, terrorism and money laundering — in other words, areas that correspond well to the crime fields I mentioned earlier in the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e559	Reduced crime, improving the efficiency of the justice sector and reducing vulnerability are the main areas of action of the Ministry of Justice in 2001. Work for a safer society and reduced crime must continue. Work on shorter processing times and better flow in the criminal justice chain is a high priority. It is particularly important to capture children and young people in the process of developing a criminal career. This is a major challenge that requires cooperation between several agencies and commitment at both central and local level. The government will follow up the action plan on child and youth crime. In addition, efforts to develop responses to minors committing crimes are important. The reported crime of violence has increased in the last decade. Violence creates insecurity and violates the integrity of the individual. The use of a violent alarm must be extended and the advisory offices and the centre of competence for victim work must be further developed. The status of victims of violence shall be strengthened by the legal establishment of the right to compensation and the maximum amount shall be raised to 1 million. kr. In particular, it must focus on hidden violence, including: by increasing the use of public prosecution. Increased organised cross-border crime must meet with new and effective investigation methods. We need to be more able to take the backers. The new Council for Combating Organised Crime, the ROC, will improve coordination of efforts against this type of crime. We are also working to establish a common national police intelligence register. It will also be a strengthening to have an agreement with Europol, which is likely to be finalised around the turn of the year. The same applies to the implementation of Schengen cooperation. The government will renew and streamline the justice sector. The reorganisation of the Ministry of Justice and External Affairs will improve the management of the sector. Right after New Year's, the government will promote both a news report on the police and a news report and a bill on the courts. After all, this work will have a significant impact on the future structure and organisation of the justice sector. A comprehensive consultation note will be issued in a few days’ time to achieve a better and more effective overall criminal case. A commitment to electronic communications will also support the efforts to speed up criminal proceedings through a faster flow of case information between the different parties. The Government will therefore start work on a so-called electronic motorway in the justice sector. It is important that the courts have broad confidence in the population, regardless of ethnicity and language skills of those attending the courts. All indications suggest that better flow and more rapid criminal proceedings will help to strengthen legal certainty by ensuring evidence, witnesses better remember and insulted to be quickly cleared. As part of this work, it is therefore also provided for by means of the continuation of a new system of procedure in the courts. Forecasts show that there is a need to increase prison capacity. The current situation shows an increase in the use of custody and a certain increase in the number of detentions. This will improve when the shelters that are now undergoing rehabilitation are reopened. However, it is necessary for the Ministry to follow closely the situation in this area in order to ensure maximum use of capacity. The reactions determined by the prosecution authority or by the court shall be carried out as soon as they have been received and no later than two months from the date of receipt. Particular attention is paid to complying with this deadline. Implementation shall be safe, without escapes and with the smallest possible failure or breach of conditions. In the event of a breach of conditions, a rapid response must be required. Proposals for a comprehensive regulatory framework for the implementation of penalties have recently been promoted and are under consideration in the Committee. In 2001, the number of trainees at the educational centre of criminal services will increase from 100 to 150. Programme activities will gradually be further developed, in particular the actions aimed at so-called repeaters and the pilot scheme of pro-mille programmes beyond the current seven counties. The government aims to reduce the vulnerability of society. The Vulnerability Committee's attitude points to the challenges facing modern society. A number of important societal functions depend on high-tech systems, where malfunctions have serious consequences. The government therefore emphasises a rapid and co-ordinated follow-up of the Vulnerability Committee. In addition, the Ministry has started work on a major communication on social security and preparedness. Furthermore, it is important to ensure the proper functioning of the crisis management apparatus. The government has therefore recently set up a panel to critically review its operational rescue and preparedness resources. The challenges are many, society and society are changing at an increasing pace. As a result, legal staff must be more and more resilient and creative. This will be a good time to achieve within the budget adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e589	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e592	At one point in the vote, a unanimous committee is opposed to the proposals of the department, and that is the proposal to close the forest laying in Fyresdal. The Committee says that it does not want this to happen. The reason for this is that the committee has information, both from the ministry and from the geographical area in which the camp belongs, which means that there are not enough arguments for closure. On the contrary, the arguments for maintaining and upgrading the camp in Fyresdal are far stronger, precisely based on the need for open settlements, and not least because we get a new district division from New Year, and open settlements in this district will be few. There will be two others, as I know, in the stavanger area, and this is in Telemark. The Committee says that alternative solutions are needed to respond to the need for satisfactory security for the staff, which will also provide a better professional follow-up to the prisoners. That means, from the Christian People's Party's point of view, that more staff are needed here to be able to care for both the employees and the prisoners. Will the Council of State ensure that this happens, so that you do not go towards closure for a liquidation period?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e601	When the government proposed to lay down the forest desertion in Fyresdal, it was because the government was of the opinion that it was the best way to use the total resources, that there were other ways of using the same resources that provided a better criminal care offer for the inmates who are going to zone. When a unanimous committee thinks otherwise, of course the government will bend to it and facilitate the maintenance of forest degradation in Fyresdal, and then it is obvious that it must be maintained in a way that is safe. It will probably mean that we need to strengthen the crew there something, at least change the tour, in relation to what is happening today, and it is the government set to do to meet the desire of a unanimous committee to maintain the forest relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e608	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a good report, which addresses and acknowledges many of the issues on which the Committee has been involved in the vote. The Council of State well concluded by saying that social conditions are changing rapidly, and that we need to take the consequences of this on the justice sector. And that's true. One of the ways society changes is that we get a tougher and tougher violence out in the street, and it affects ordinary people. But it also affects policemen. One thing that's worried about the police association is that the number of armed missions is increasing a lot. In Oslo, we now expect up to 400 armed missions a year, over one per cent. Today, and that we have as much as 1,200 policemen who can count on having to arm themselves. What is then important to ensure the security of both policemen and – I was saying – by accident is that you are well trained and well trained. This is why the Committee has said that it is important that the Ministry investigates the possibility of getting into an indoor firing range for the Oslo Police, and that it can either be built or long-term rental contracts can be concluded. It is important to assess these different options, including the possibility of co-location with the Hasle Football Hall. I have no doubt that the Minister of Justice will follow up these comments from the Committee, but because it is a little urgent, I have a question as to whether it would have been possible to give feedback to the Committee during the spring, at the latest, in revised form, so that we were sure that we had done our job to realise the opportunities for the Oslo Police for relevant shooting training, so we know that they have more than one mission per. the day when it comes to arming itself. I think everyone will be worthy of that, and I welcome a positive response from the Minister of Justice to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e617	It is not difficult to agree with the chairperson of the Committee that it is important that the police have proper shooting training, not least in view of the number of armed missions. I can also reply confirmatively, in the sense that I can promise that we will provide some form of feedback in connection with the revised national budget. But the content of that feedback I find it difficult to promise anything about now, not least because some of the proposals that have been up and that have been evaluated cost so much money that it is difficult for me here and now to promise something without further notice, also in the light of other wishes that also both government and committee could imagine trying to get to, for example. police helicopters or new Grünerløkka police station, which are also other major, demanding reforms that we all want to achieve at some point. I promise some form of feedback in the revised national budget. I'm busy getting to shooting training, but just how, how well and how fast we can get it to, it's too early to answer right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e624	I would first like to underline the same relationship that the representative Krohn Devold raised. It is clear that in the case of shooting training, it is expensive to build new ones, but renting is not as expensive. It is often in Oslo that things are put to the fore, and the committee has a note of reflection on how to find practical solutions to it. My reflection began a New Year's night into a new millennium, when I almost heard what happened at the ran of a store where there was a weapon. After that, I learned that if you're going to prevent the big panic, prevent populist outbursts, which of course I'll never suspect the Council of State, just to provide good training and training and practical measures is a way to do it. I still took the floor for a different relationship. I noted in my main post that the Committee has taken up violence and action against violence against women. In this context, in a number of cases, we have raised questions about a restraining order and how the restraining order can be enforced by men — especially men — who act in such a way that they ignore it, in other words, that there are stricter rules to ensure that people can actually be held in custody when they go too far. And we know that people do. I want to ask the Council of State where that matter now stands, because I know she has an involvement in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e635	A month ago, the Government put forward proposals to the Grand Duchy for a change in the penal framework for a visit ban, so that there is a proposal in the Committee to change this to allow for arrests and, if appropriate, imprisonment of persons who infringe a restraining order. What I can also inform you is that we are also working to look at the very design of the restraining order, to see if it can be made better and clearer than it is today, and what conditions are needed to impose a restraining order.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e643	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e648	There has been little focus on the relationship between violence in public places and the more widespread domestic violence. We can read in the statistics that there are more killings at home than anywhere else, and the Oslo police survey shows that residence is a frequent crime scene, and that it is most often directed at family members. We're not focusing on this a little bit. We know that there are large numbers of darkness because such cases are not reported, and it still seems that this is a subject that is too much taboo. It doesn't fit into our notions of family and home, and we know that it often meets with some attitudes. We also know that it's usually the girls who are exposed to it. This is one of the areas in which we have a long way to go before we can say we're satisfied with equality, and then we have to dry up and grab it. We have focused little on how we can prevent boys who have been subjected to violence between their parents from adopting such violence patterns. Because here, there's probably an important reason for this violence to happen, guys trained to believe that man solves problems by beating. It's a form of conflict resolution that few men will accept, but in the absence of good role models and little focus on domestic violence, many boys are taught to believe that men beat and use violence. We see it exposed in society too. There's masculinity on the way, and it's as distant from human values as possible. The guys who don't have the right human roles to deal with today are at risk of being confirmed without getting proofs. Because in many ways we have developed a social system in which young people meet only women throughout growth, whether at home, in kindergarten or in primary school. Here we have a great job to do to counter the violence that happens in public places, by giving our boys good roles to learn from. It is one of the most important issues of equality that remains unresolved. Remember, too, that thousands of kids live with this every day! We have to take care of it and not just accept that it is a sub-theme. We need to get an overview of what we're really challenging, even though it still feels like taboo. The signals that we're sending out from here can help do something about it. In addition, some work is being done in the field that can be reinforced, not least to increase the number of people on the job with regard to children and young people’s daily lives, whether at home, in pre-school, in kindergarten or in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e661	I also want to address what has already been the subject of many in this debate, namely violence against women. I do it first because I have been engaged in related issues through many of the issues here in the Storting and Odelstinget where I have been the case rapporteur, and secondly because I think it is important that we as men say something in this matter, because there is no doubt that we are the sinners, we are the perpetrators of these crimes, we are responsible for very much of what is inflicted on the second sex of pain, both physically and mentally. It is a sign in society that violence is being committed against women. I learned when I grew up, that you shouldn't hit the one that's less than yourself, you shouldn't act so that you use physical superiority against the one that's a weakening. I don't want to describe the weak sex in this way, but I want to express a resistance to the human glory that is expressed in too many contexts, where human glory consists in the glory of power, whether it is physical or mental. It's a sign of disease in society because it's an attack on human dignity. Violence against women expresses lack of value anchoring and limitation. Yes, I dare also to claim that it is about the ego community versus the responsibility society. We've done something, but there's a lot left in this area. Violence breeds violence. Kristin Halvorsen said it from this pulpit not long ago. Yeah, that's right. Very many, perhaps as much as 60-70 pst. Of those who experience domestic violence, they themselves become perpetrators of violence. Violence breeds violence, in the private sphere of homes, by the power of the example and by media violence. That is why, in the view of the Christian People's Party, there is a need for a dissemination and awareness-raising that can counteract this. We must have clear and swift criminal responses, but also treatment and relief, both to the perpetrator of the violence and to the perpetrator of the violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e672	More than 10,000 women are treated each year by the health care system for the physical injuries they have suffered from husbands or cohabitants. In addition, all those who do not seek medical attention come in spite of significant damage. The problem is significant, and when you also know that there are children around these women, it's pretty bad to think about how powerless we are as fellow humans. Crisis centres have been the rescue for many women and children over the years. Around 2,500 women and 1,800 children live every year in crisis centres around Norway. Those seeking help in these crisis centres are mentally debilitated, they do not have self-confidence and do not have the opportunity to take the initiative themselves to find institutions that can help them. I am pleased that the Justice Committee has addressed this major social problem in the budget for next year, and among other things. has pointed out that domestic violence affects women and children to a large extent. The Labour Party wants there to be procedures for the reception of violence and rape by all medical officers. Attention needs to be paid to documentation in the event of damage, and the person affected needs to be put in touch with other support agencies, such as crisis centres, child protection and the police. There is a satisfactory supply of crisis centres across the country. These have grown on the initiative of women’s and women’s organisations, and much of the work is based on volunteering. This is positive, but it does not deprive the public of responsibility. Budgetary work is also ongoing in municipalities today. On Saturday I saw in Oppland Arbeiderblad that the municipality of Lunner could cancel the agreement with the crisis centre in Hönefoss. The health and social manager justifies this because the number of users is low in relation to payments. I believe and hope that politicians will look at this differently. It's almost like saying that the fire station should be shut down because there has been no fire. Crisis centres are vulnerable because they rely on appropriations from connected municipalities to receive a correspondingly large state grant. Crisis centres do a good job, and those who work there are prepared to receive women and children who seek there in the time of distress – at all times of the day. They deserve good and stable economic conditions. There should have been a review of the role and situation of crisis centres with a view to finding solutions to meet with a more predictable economy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e683	The representatives of the Christian People's Party have previously mentioned violence against women here in Norway. I want to see it in a more international perspective, because this I have understood is very necessary after having been a delegate to the UN in the fall and heard debates on this very topic. Women are a marginalized group in many places in the world. Violence against women has thus never been a specific issue on the international agenda before perhaps now for the last decade. The focus on human rights in recent years has had good ring-effects, and more and more places in the world are now emerging for women seeking to focus on violence against women as a violation of human rights. It may seem that this is the best way to get international attention, because often violence against women in other parts of the world has been eliminated by the fact that there is a religious or cultural problem and thus an internal issue for countries where these abuses occur. Women who dare to address the problem in international forums are often accused of giving their country poor reputation. It is therefore very important that this category of violence become part of the vocabulary when discussing fundamental human rights in general internationally, and that it is generally recognised that violence against women is a threat to democracy and an obstacle to development. Violence against women has many forms of expression, more than domestic violence – rape, the sale of women and prostitution, violence in war, systematic rape, slavery, adoration, circumcision or prenatal selection of boys. In 1993, the UN General Assembly adopted a Declaration on Violence against Women, which stressed that this is a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination. It is therefore important to have a relevant women’s perspective both in the development debate and in the human rights debate. Violence against women is likely to be linked to the position of women in society in general. It must therefore be an objective that cultural patterns that are clearly infringing human rights must be broken and that women's rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by national laws. In 1994, the UN Commission on Human Rights established a special rapporteur for violence against women. And it was something new when, after the war in Bosnia and Rwanda, men were accused and punished for rape and assault on women – because this is a war crime. An important element is access to education in these countries, and I am pleased that Norway has specifically supported UNICEF’s efforts to educate women. Education gives girls better confidence and knowledge about their own value and rights in society and gives them responsibility in the development of society. Another important way to promote women's rights is to support democratisation development, where women's place in governing bodies is a central element.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e694	It is important to focus more strongly on the responsibilities of crisis centres in Norway in general and the Incest Centre in Westfold in particular. The scheme in Westfold, with an unforeseeable financial situation from year to year, which requires itself to obtain NOK 200000 each year, is unsustainable. The centre in Westfold is the only thing in the country that has 24-hour accommodation in a crisis situation. Here come children, young people and adults when they run away from home to release more sexual and violent abuses. Now, together with the state, we must take greater responsibility for this serious problem. We cannot leave such a large part of this offer to volunteers, where cabotage and begging for money are crucial to the continued operation of this centre. Whereas it is necessary for the Community to provide a stable and secure framework in order to enable those working there to have acceptable working conditions, as others have. I have registered that the Government’s Action Plan ‘Violence against Women’ has many proposals to implement tasks in this area. A cross-ministerial sample could cover a broader field and also follow up the criminal aspects to a greater extent than hitherto. That's good. After a while, the state must take full responsibility for the fact that all states are given their own 24-hour offer. I have also registered the large number of people who are exposed to domestic violence. One of the tools tested since 1 September 1997, which has now become permanent, is a violent alarm. 300 people exposed to serious threats and violence have put this into practice. So finally, in terms of the use of words as weapons to gain power and influence, I would ask that we remember each other about why Corps Lorentz Ring in 1885 gave the painting behind me here to the Stortinget. He was an ambulanceian in the Italian Civil War, and he looked forward to people fighting and using weapons to gain power and influence. He saw the many sufferings and loss of life in this power struggle. He pointed out that Norway had democratic ways of exercising power and influence. The elected representatives were to use words as political weapons to argue and negotiate with their opponents. That's something we adults today need to focus more on and teach our children, so that they can win with their opinions and achieve their goals in a peaceful way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e712	Those of us who have read a lot of history have read about women's experiences in war, and that women and gold were the spoils of the masters of war – when they were supposed to humiliate their enemies in a primitive way by taking their women from them, and by planting their seed in the hands of the enemy's women, exterminating the enemies' inheritances and thus eradicating them as families. If, against assumption, you live in the belief that such primitive acts belong to the past, then it's completely wrong. These atrocities and this war heritage are not just history; it is the history of modern women from the wars and conflicts that are taking place today. The atrocities of history against women are lessons that war planners today also exploit cynically. We've seen this all along. Women have also been subjected to systematic rapes as part of warfare in several of today's conflicts and during the wars in the Balkans. As women, we cannot understand how to imagine such atrocities, nor how to unite war and rape at all. Sickness of rape has been used as an act of violence in war as long as people have waged war, was first recognized as a war crime in 1995. As a result, the international community should now take responsibility for the prosecution of abuses against women and children. Our two temporary criminal courts per year. Today, one for Rwanda and one for former Yugoslavia, dealing with war crimes, must take the stories of women seriously. Those who have committed war crimes have most likely committed crimes of all kinds. What concerns women's history is also important to take with them when going to prison. I also remember the war stories that were told by the first people who came here from the Bosnia-Herzegovina, and I also remember the hopes that didn't work out to be soldiers, who told what they were trained to do to women and children. It is certain that the future permanent war criminal court will be built up in Rome, but before that time these matters should be taken much more seriously than they are today. UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has understood that war crimes against women must be brought to light, it must be condemned in the strongest terms and punished. When I was in the U.N. in the fall, a meeting of the Security Council was dedicated to violence against women and children in war. It was a long day with many strong contributions from women who knew what they were talking about. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, also made a very strong contribution on human rights in the 3rd Committee. There was also a lot of time to stress that it should be a natural human right as a woman to get rid of violence, whether it's at home, out or in war.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e723	Today, when we are discussing the budget position of the Ministry of Justice, I would like to congratulate the Committee on Justice, which has put the fight against violence against women on the agenda to those degrees, when one of its comments says, among other things. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Committee suggests that violence against women is not just a problem for each woman but a social problem. This also applies to domestic violence. Society has a responsibility to respond when women are subjected to such violence. The Committee points out that the police can pursue cases even if women do not report the perpetrator by availing themselves of the possibility of taking public action. This possibility should be used more actively.’ This is a great comment. It is absolutely necessary that domestic violence be lifted out of the private sphere and treated as it is, i.e. a – unfortunately – growing social problem. Domestic violence is not just a matter between mother and father – the adults in the family. The children are always hit hardest. And it's a problem that adults like pattern figures for the kids are creating new adults that beat. It is not the ladies who are the problem, it is the estimated 100 000 men who resort to violence against their wives and cohabitants who are the problem. It is not the victims who should be moved by having to escape to the crisis centres or change their identity. We as society must ensure that the problem, namely the abuser, is thrown out and punished. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has addressed the problems of violence, not least in connection with rape. To date, an impression has been made that adults, full-bodied and quarrelling men who are being knocked down in a cab queue at 0 p.m. 3 a.m., has a stronger legal protection than women being raped on their way home from a party. We must not become indifferent and trivialize violence with statements like: Yes, when she is so stupid. It's actually like that so-called stupid people should have equal rights to legal protection as those who call themselves wise? A bruise will usually be cured after a few days, but the fear of being beaten again and the humiliation will pursue a life out. It cannot be in our legal system that the person who beats and abuses escapes with a few months of punishment, while the person who is beaten, raped and humiliated must feel punishment every day and thus experience that she has received a life sentence. Therefore, as the Minister of Justice is now proposing, it is necessary to amend the penal code in order to ensure better legal protection against menacing and harassing perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e745	Prostitution has become a significant problem in large parts of bordered Finnland. Despite the high level of involvement in the communities concerned, it has not been possible to deal with either the prostitution itself or the accompanying adverse effects. This creates frustration, prejudice against all Russians, rumors around the community, myths of what premises prostitution is happening, and anti-female attitudes. Barncooperation has captured the distress affecting large sections of the population on the other side of the border. Of course, mothers and women are also concerned about the future of their children, which we in Norway must support. In the wake of people in need of shoes, cynical people are concerned with their difficult situation in life. Men in the north who are taking advantage of these women, don't look at themselves as whores. No, they're the great helpers. They take these women into their homes and pay them to be sex slaves, but also to be slaves to them in other ways. They don't have to go to the brothel, and then it's not so negative! Many of the women who come dream of a rich man in Norway who can help them away from misery at home, away from heavy alcohol abuse, away from one who beats. They come here to someone with a nice house, with a car and with a lot of good food – but the man is the same. In addition, he has a sévinist woman's vision, and he doesn't like the one he's gotten rid of, it's just to trade, because there's a busload of women coming across the border every week. What we hear from men who are trying to apologize for this is: the Russian girls are not like the Norwegians, they have a different culture and they like what they do. They're poor, and now they're making money. No, I don't believe this. Most people who come this way are forced into prostitution for economic reasons. Many of them are lone mothers, and they have a job at home that's not enough to keep them alive and the family. Exploitation of women has been a social problem especially in many poor countries, and there is considerable evidence of what this does to the people involved, both sellers and buyers. The buyers talk about prostitution in different ways and help to create attitudes towards people who just break down. But when the prostitutes describe their lives, we hear about an unbearable situation without human dignity. Prostitution is a trade in women and thus violence against them. The women’s deportation generated by this traffic affects many rural communities in Finland. As politicians, we have to join in and state that this cannot be accepted by society. We must have laws that place responsibility and punishment in the hands of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e758	Violence against women is a social problem and a public problem; it is not a private problem. Violence is destructive, and it deprives us of freedom. Combating violence against women is necessary in order to achieve real equality for women, and that was perhaps the reason for the women’s movement when it helped to put public searchlights on ‘housewives’, as it was then called. Something more brutal than violence and assault on one's neighbor is hard to get at. We can't understand or explain this horrible phenomenon, and that's exactly why we feel as powerless and as vulnerable as humans. We politicians can regulate the ‘gut club Grei’ and insider dealing in business, we can regulate the working environment and we can regulate abuse against animals, but when it comes to preventing violence against women and children, we don’t know what we can do. We feel discouraged, and we become helpless. The fact that each of us feels helpless shows that here we have to stand together, across party lines and across sex. We must also bear in mind that families also often feel discouraged in such a situation. We have to do what we can to break the vicious circle that violence represents, and then we have to put away the powerlessness and the worst rascal and not just call for punishment and retribution. Penalties and sanctions must be in place, and they can also be developed to some extent, but I don't think we can deal with the violence just by increasing the penalties; I don't think that helps. When we listen to those who practice violence, we know that many of these themselves have been exposed to it. Very often, violence entered the perpetrator’s own childhood — they have either witnessed or been subjected to violence. Per Isdal and Thore Langfeldt have a lot to say about this. So to say all of their clients have experienced violence as a child, either directly or indirectly by witnessing father's violence against mother. In the last decade, research has made it clear that being a witness has far greater adverse effects than previously thought. Per Isdal, a psychologist and director of the Alternative to Violence Treatment Foundation, has just written the book ‘Meeting With Violence’. What Isdal is taking up here is very thoughtful: Domestic violence affects the growth of many children. 90 pst. of those who are exposed to domestic violence are women. Police working methods must be aimed at detecting and documenting domestic violence, and procedures for recording and reporting need to be improved. At the national meeting, the Labour Party decided to set up a women's violence committee. The aim of this will be to see different instruments and long-term responses to female violence in a holistic perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e784	I know a lot of girls who are afraid to go out alone in the evening. The fear of being raped and other assaults reduces their freedom of movement. We also know that there are many women living in relationships where fear of violence – and often sexualized violence – from the partner causes them to live in more or less constant fear. In some cases, it's so bad that it affects the quality of life. I am therefore pleased that, both earlier this year and not least now, in the context of the budgetary procedure, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is paying extra attention to this problem. The question is what can we as a society do to improve the situation of all the women involved. Of course, the most important thing is to prevent abuse. For every single assault that can be prevented, we spare a woman an offensive, violent or threatening experience. In addition, we must take action after the action has taken place. These include criminal responses and assistance and assistance to the woman who has been subjected to the offence. It is of great importance that society reacts to the attacker and that women be treated in a way that minimises the adverse effects of the attack. The second after killing is the rape of the most serious crime in our society. Rape is a social problem that unfortunately is not of a new date. But for criminal justice, morality matters in the form and extent that we have today are a relatively new subject. If we look at the crime statistics of the Central Bureau of Statistics and the reception of rape at the Oslo Medical Watch, it shows that two out of three reports of rape are being passed. 15 pst. of all notifications ending in a conviction. 24 pst. of the cases of rape brought before the courts, shall end in acquittal. Half of those who come to the rape ward at Oslo Medical Watch report the rape. A Swedish public investigation shows that more than 90 pst. by all rapes are never reported. These figures make me ask myself the question: Do we not have a legal security problem for women who are exposed to such abuses in our country? In recent years, attention has been focused on the ability of police and prosecution authorities to deal with these kinds of cases, and a working group set up by the national lawyer has looked at the quality of investigation in rape cases. The working group dealt with more than 100 individual cases and carried out a check and verification of police investigations into rapes. The working group assessed whether the police and the state attorney’s office are in a position to decide when the choice is between bringing an action and bringing an rape case. The Working Group concluded that quality can improve and has proposed a number of measures to improve research. We are many who attend the follow-up of the Ministry of Justice to the work of working parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e801	Today, many female representatives from the Labour Party are engaged in this debate. We believe that there is now a need for broad mobilization against violence, and that that mobilisation must also take place here in Stortinget. It is a mobilization that does not have to be one-sided about police and longer-term penalties, but which, on the contrary, has to be primarily about prevention. When we're going to prevent, that means we have to look at what's causing people to resort to violence. An important reason is the absence of male role models for boys. Studies in Sweden show that in all the serious violence cases in recent years, the perpetrators had had minimal contact with their fathers in growing up. Instead, these boys had to look elsewhere for male role models and find it through TV, through video games and comics – in a world where men resolve conflicts of violence and aggression. In a everyday life without a father as comfort, in a kindergarten without men sitting down around the dining table, such human figures become easily models. And this is an area where, unfortunately, the world hasn't gone that far in recent years. Last week the newspaper’s online newspaper reported that more than 90 pst. by primary school teachers are women. That means that many boys have an entire upbringing, until they're finished at school, without men with care and guidance tasks. So if we're going to prevent violence, we need men, in kindergartens and in primary school. The teacher team leader, Helga Hjetland, considered that the most important measure of getting more men into school is pay. There we are now doing a boost in the follow-up to the wage settlement in ours, where the government is adding full compensation to the draft government budget. I think pay is important, but that's not enough. Here we have to go to work systematically, along with, among other things. teacher organisations, to find concrete measures to get more men into kindergartens and schools. In addition, the work now being done on amending the Children’s Act will be important. Shared care must be the natural thing. The gender equality debate has been about giving women the same opportunities as men, but today many fathers feel that they are without rights to their children. Now it's time for the gender equality debate to also focus on the fact that we women have to give up some privileges. The goal is a society in which we give all children the opportunity of both male and female role models in their family, in kindergarten and in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e814	It should be a fundamental human right to live a life without fear of power or being subjected to power. Unfortunately, we know that there are many people who don't have it this way. We have no statistics or knowledge that gives a complete picture of what the scope is when we talk about power. Not least, there is great darkness when it comes to power that happens to women in the world. The choice of the world was until recently a topic that was little advanced in the public debate. The creation of crisis centres and emergency telephones for abused women has helped to increase the attention of this type of choice, but we do not solve the problems with power only by creating crisis telephones and crisis centres. The power against women is not and must not be perceived as a private problem, it is a social problem. We all have a responsibility to help prevent violence and abuse, both in the streets, in the workplace and at home. According to the Statistics Central Bureau, the statistics on living conditions from 1997 show that about half of these data are available. 6 pst. by adult women in Norway were exposed to violence or threats. Nothing indicates that this number is going down. For the children, this means that they get involved in the problems and get a childhood and grow up to be affected by the adult’s problems, contrary to what children are entitled to grow up. The central government addressed this difficult but important issue and presented the action plan ‘Violence against women’, with a number of concrete proposals to improve the situation. An effective fight against violence requires targeted and coordinated efforts on the part of society. Different etats and professional environments must work together. There is a need to invest in increased skills among the disciplines involved in the selection process and also to increase understanding of the problem in general in society. It is important that the sitting government follow its initiative, so that we can manage to develop a society with an enhanced quality of life for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e823	The Minister of Justice today mentioned concrete measures in his speech to eliminate violence against women. I'll give my support to her commitment in this field. At present, three central government councils have produced an action plan with 20 measures against women’s elections. This unimaginable plan was surprisingly well received. There was clearly a need for both the visibility of a large but often hidden social problem, and there was a clear need for different measures. That someone cared about a plan actually gave new hope. When the Minister of Justice today stresses both the greater possibility of being heard and also of being replaced, I see it as important steps forward. Optional alarm security is required to provide a higher level of security. From the Center Party's side, we will also ask that the Competence Centre for Selected Work for Victims be raised more clearly. There was a pilot project from 1996 which was finalised last year. I'm glad today's government is now following up. The principal task of the centre of competence is to disseminate knowledge of the chosen and chosen victims in the ordinary auxiliary apparatus. Increased knowledge is crucial, not least in the various educational institutions. Wenche Malmedal made a report in 1998 on the situation in the hospital. It is an example of both the need for sustaining work, legal security, not least for demented people, and work environment measures for health professionals. Torunn Arntsen Sørheim, from 1998 onwards, showed the vulnerability of women with disabilities through 37 interviews, and how important it is that the auxiliaries are more observant precisely to these women and what they may be exposed to in their everyday lives. Finally, I would like to say that I was impressed by the work that the municipality of Oslo had already seen in this area. The training program they have is an example for others too. I expect that the Minister of Justice, as coordinator of various actions, will also follow suit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e836	I have listened to the debate like this a little from the sideline, and I think it is a pleasure that violence against women has been such a big topic here today. Violence against women is an important strategy to keep women down and is therefore a democratic problem, as another speaker said earlier. In the context of the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' budget, SV now proposes that both a women's violence committee be set up – and I understand that at least there we are supported by the Workers' Party – and that we look at measures that make it the abuser being thrown out of the home – that there are no women and children who have to flee – automatic violence alarms and measures that ensure better assistance for women and children. Much of this debate, as I have heard it, has been about violence against women here in Norway. I want to take up violence against women in other countries and what we do with it. The UN Women's Convention also obliges us to help women who are subjected to violence in other countries. This means that we have to work properly in relation to trafficking in women, but it is also important that we look at how we treat women who are subjected to violence in other countries and who seek protection here with us in Norway. They have either fled from rape, or they have fled from violent marriage, and they do not get the protection they need in other countries. In relation to the UN Women's Convention, we commit ourselves to helping these women. Here in Norway, there are few people who have stayed because of gender-based persecution, and the Refugee Council can also tell us about this in its last issue number. I have met many desperate women who have not been allowed to stay. So they have fled from violence, but they are not believed, either because they cannot prove that they have been subjected to violence or risk being subjected to violence when they return home, or because they did not tell the truth from the first moment. And it's not so strange that they've kept such information to themselves, because we know how it's dealt with with guilt and shame. We also know a good deal about this in relation to the work done here in Norway. The MiRA Centre, NOAS and Amnesty all believe that the practice of the Foreign Affairs Act here in Norway means that these women do not receive the protection they need. Today, an Iranian woman sits somewhere in Norway with her children. She has been denied a refusal, despite the fact that everyone who has been with her understands that she speaks the truth when she says that she is afraid to be subjected to violence. This is a disgrace, and I encourage everyone to address this problem, so that we can look at it. It's a commitment for us to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e851	I am pleased with this debate, which focuses on power, and I think it is natural that it is linked to the budget debate in connection with the Ministry of Justice's budget, although it could also be included in other debates. The Committee points out that violence against women is not just a problem for each woman, but a social problem – it should be a belief of course – and that society has a responsibility to react when women are subjected to such power. Yes, I want to say that we all have a responsibility to react, because as friends, relatives and neighbors, we all have a moral duty to intervene and not just passively look at when privacy becomes the dissatisfaction of privacy. It can be for women, children or parents, or for that matter for men, but we have a moral responsibility as individuals in this context. In the public apparatus, we also have people who have a formal responsibility to notice and help if a label that children or adults are exposed to power. There was an entry on TV yesterday that showed a grown lady who had not received it. It turned out that there was still a long way to go before that. teachers and kindergarten staff had the knowledge they should have to be able to reveal problems to young people. The Committee points out that the police can follow up on matters even if women do not report the perpetrator themselves. That seems to me to be a scheme that is too little used. I think we have a piece left to go there. Unfortunately, although I see that it may be difficult to balance when it comes to ensuring that the doubt is good enough, and to believe in the victim and the person who has reported the matter, that we have to work to do this better. This depends on the knowledge of the police action and, of course, on the research capacity, and it depends again on how much a prioritisation to use for these cases. I myself have been in such a situation on behalf of a client when I work in health and social affairs, and report the matter to the police. There was no particularly good experience on the part of the police, and the matter was resolved. It may have been it was right, but it could have been done in another way, so that the victim and her helpers did not feel so suspicious. We talk more and more about shared care in the Workers' Party, and there are some who call me and ask, does it mean that the kids are going to be with these overwhelming fathers, with these fathers who beat them? Of course it's not like that. Child protection law is such that the child’s best interests are focused, and if one is in doubt, if matters are being handled, it is of course necessary for one to be in a position of oversight, for the doubt must therefore benefit the child in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e866	According to the UN Women's Convention, violence is the biggest obstacle to girls' development in the world. One in three women on earth has experienced violence or been forced into sex. In several countries, girls are also forced into marriage and subjected to abuse, at worst atrocities, if they refuse. We have been documented in recent years that this is also happening in Norway. Many of these go into marriage where they experience continuous violence, abuse and downgrading. In a broad mobilization against violence against women, we also need to look at measures against coerciveness. When Stortinget dealt with a Document No. Eight proposals on forced marriage on 30 May this year, there was an employee at a crisis centre who called me in advance and said the following: I have a girl here who has been coerced three times. Do you know what a human being looks like who's gone through something like this? It's like having been subjected to three different rapes. Work to prevent young women from getting married against their will is about fundamental human rights, the inviolable right of individuals to decide for themselves their own lives. Women shall have the same human dignity as men. Forced marriage is unacceptable, as is all other oppression and violence against women. It violates both Norwegian law and human rights conventions to use culture, tradition or religion as the basis for violence against women. Cultural relativism is unacceptable in a human rights context. Norwegian society has developed on the basis of a social democratic value base based on equality, equivalency, solidarity and human rights, with political institutions characterized by humanism and a legal system reflecting these values. Therefore, forced marriage is prohibited in Norway. And we have a responsibility for that ending. In this respect, I would like to mention that in the United Kingdom, we experience that fourth-generation girls from immigrant communities are still being coerced away. That's why it's also important that we do something now. Girls born in Norway or who have come to Norway at the time of family reunification are entitled to Norwegian legal protection in accordance with Norwegian standards and Norwegian laws. If we treat girls with a minority background more disadvantageous than girls with a Norwegian background, it must be said to be both discriminatory and racist. In the autumn of 1999 and in the spring of 2000, I worked with a forced marriage in a group of women's political regimes in the Workers' Party. What we recorded was that this unfortunately has a significantly larger amount than what we've been aware of. [[The President clubs]] That is why I would ask that the Council of State and the Government also intensify the work against forced marriage. And if I'm allowed
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e884	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e887	... I will quote from a letter that a young Muslim woman wrote to her parents, asking: «Do you dare to change the traditions for me and for all the others?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e892	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e906	When I take the word, it is only to make note of a typing error in the setting. On page 2, in the second paragraph of the Committee's observations, the Committee makes reference to the observations contained in the first indent of the budget. S. No 4 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e915	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 916]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e929	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor. There was then a call to voting. [[See page 917]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e948	We're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e1228	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the proposal No. 2, from Kristin Krohn Devold on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party, then alternately between the vote and proposal No. 2, from the right. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: "Frame area 5 [[Justis]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-04.ana.ud1687e4289	There is an aberrant proposal from the Right, proposal No. 2, which reads: "Frame area 5 [[Justis]]
