ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e45	On behalf of President Åse Wisløff Nilssen, I will review the main points of Ot.prp in my article. No 31 on amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. This law and regulations should be subject to continuous evaluation in order to achieve the objective of ensuring that the legislation is as up-to-date and appropriate as possible. The decision of the Bondevik Government to transfer responsibility for the foreign administration to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs takes note of the Committee. In the Committee's view, it is more appropriate to bring together foreign affairs in one department, and we note that the establishment of the Foreign Office is delayed, but that it will start from 1 January 2001. Some of the changes in the Foreign Affairs Act are due to updates in order to obtain proper ministerial membership. The Ministry of Justice has given feedback in its proposal on the reduction of dual citizenship. The matter was discussed in connection with Innst. S. No 109 for 1998-99 and dealt with in the United Kingdom on 13 April 1999. It is the case that those who are granted Norwegian citizenship will not be disbanded from their former citizenship if they do not want it. The Committee and the Ministry wanted to change this, but it has been found that the rules drawn up have not worked in practice. The Ministry has started work on assessing alternative solutions, and there is cooperation with the other Nordic countries that have the same problem. In Section 17, the majority of the Committee supports the proposal that asylum seekers of working age be asked if they want temporary work permits. It is important to give the opportunity to get into work. Furthermore, it will facilitate the process for the Directorate of Foreign Affairs to clarify both the fulfilment of the conditions and the granting of the temporary authorisation in the course of the interview. This is the only point on which the Committee is divided, and the Party of Progress and the Right will, if appropriate, express its views. However, the Committee is united in agreeing to continue the provision that applicants for asylum with a final non-implementation may be granted a temporary authorisation on request. The Committee would point out that the authorisation will only be valid until such time as the refusal is initiated. For both groups, it shall be possible to lay down detailed rules by regulation. The decision-making authority shall remain the Foreign Affairs Directorate, but a new provision is proposed to allow the Directorate to give the police the authority to grant authorisation. The changes in Section 21 are subject to the passport law, as all children must now have their own passport, and this also applies to travel certificates and foreign passports. The granting authority is added to the police by such an application for children under 16 years of age. Paragraph 39 concerns the implementation of decisions on matters other than asylum and protection against persecution. The changes concern the explicit mention of Nordic citizens in the provision that they should not be less disadvantaged than other foreigners, and that provision is applied in practice also to them when they have been in the realm for more than three months. In other words, it's about a little cleanup. In Section 48, there are changes to cover all groups to be treated in the same way. Foreigners are associated with diplomatic or paid consular representations in the kingdom, their spouses – and then there is an addition: ‘or cohabitants’. The king decides which of the rules of the law apply and may give special instructions for this group. The same applies to employees of intergovernmental organisations and personal employees of foreign representatives. And here comes the addendum: ‘contractors for intergovernmental organisations or Convention bodies’. Norway has ratified several binding international agreements requiring derogations from the general rules of the Foreign Service of persons covered by the Agreement. In the future, it may be appropriate to conclude several such agreements, therefore it is most appropriate to obtain a provision now. So this is going to be a new third term. ‘For non-residents who are to reside in the State in the context of the implementation of an intergovernmental cooperation agreement by which Norway is bound, the provisions on checks on entry, passports, visas, residence permits and work permits shall apply, with the exceptions resulting from the agreement.’; I see, of course, that the members of this House will vote in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e80	Only a brief explanation of why the members of the Progress Party are recommended to vote against the last paragraph of Section 17. After taking out the words ‘on request’ from this paragraph, it will mean that it will be more automatic than in the past in offering asylum seekers work as soon as they come to the country. We know that there is only a very small proportion of asylum seekers who are real refugees, and I am thinking of having a system where a person, for example from Romania, can come to Norway, misrepresent himself as a refugee and thus be rewarded with a work permit for a certain period of time, while an honest person from the exact same country who is applying for a visa and permission to come to Norway to work in the ordinary way will be refused his application. In this way, people who lie are rewarded at the expense of — and discriminate — persons who are honest. This is going to be a way to stimulate juxtaposition. We put in place a system where the easiest way to get temporary work permits for a few months in Norway is to come here and say that you are an asylum seeker. On the other hand, it is clear that asylum seekers cannot go ineffective for a long time and be paid by Norwegian taxpayers. So in cases where it takes disproportionately long time to complete the case and get it out of the world and decide on the asylum application, it must nevertheless be possible to grant a work permit to an asylum seeker.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e87	SV joins in the Committee's position, but I need a comment on some of the things that the representative of the Progress Party was up here and took up. The recommendation refers to the fact that some hearing bodies consider that the legal text on the granting of a work permit should have said ‘shall’ and not ‘can’. SV agrees with that intention, but feels that the way the legal text is now means in principle that you should get a work permit, that is, that you should be asked for, and that in that case there must be reasons why you do not get it. I ask the Minister of Justice to clarify how this provision should actually be understood. It has been important in the debate that the Municipal Committee has held, how we are to ensure that several asylum seekers get into action quickly and do not become inactive and destroy their competences, but, on the contrary, can build up and gain greater competence whether they are going to stay in the country or they are going to leave. Therefore, it is important that this provision becomes an active provision that is being used, and that in principle, people should actually be allowed to work. We think that's the best thing for the person in question, and not least for society, because you also get the benefit of this labour force. To the concerns that the representative of the Progress Party was up here and said instead, that there should be a few advantages over others, I would say: if it is a problem that we are too restrictive in terms of increased labour immigration from other countries where work is sought and perhaps also possible residence in Norway, more proposals have been made on this both from the SV and from the SV and the Right together, which had taken on the relationship that the representative of the Progress Party points to, and it would have been a more active and positive approach than to problematize that people sitting on asylum receptions for weeks, months and years, actually now have the opportunity and will be able to both support themselves and contribute to the creation of value in society. I think everyone really thinks that's the best thing to do. It becomes a little difficult to understand that objection on the basis of that reason, because I see it as positive that the Progress Party also sees it not idle for months, but, on the contrary, has the opportunity to work. So if it had been possible for the Minister of Justice to clarify that this provision is actually an active provision that is supposed in principle to give to anyone who wants it, work permit, I would have been very happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e104	I asked for the floor to brief me on something other than the specific changes that have been proposed and that have now been approved, but a question was raised directly to me about the work permit for asylum seekers. The meaning of the provision is to facilitate their obtaining a work permit. Then I would like to go back to what I asked for the floor, because I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to provide some information related to the information given in the motion for a resolution on the time when complaints were raised in foreign matters. The proposal informs that the date of establishment of the Foreign Letter will be 1 January 2001 instead of 1 November 2000, which had previously been notified to the Stortinget. The reason for the postponement was that the Ministry of Justice’s responsibility for Foreign Affairs would be transferred to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on 1 January 2001. However, the current government has decided that the overall professional responsibility for asylum, immigration and integration policy should be brought together in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs as soon as possible. This is planned to happen by promoting a kgl. the resolution that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs will take over the management of matters under foreign and citizenship law from a fixed date in the near future. The Department of Foreign Affairs of the Ministry of Justice will continue to be an administrative department of the Ministry of Justice even after this date and until 1 January 2001, when the budgetary responsibility for the area is transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e111	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 448]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e125	The proposition about rules for the use of personal watercraft and similar is initially a rather narrow case. However, it raises many questions, and it goes straight into what may be a conflict between natural and environmental interests and the desire for recreation, use and use of water and sea. There is no disagreement that noise and high speed can conflict with other interests. However, the question is how far the State should apply rules and prohibitions to mitigate or avoid conflict. There is at this point the disagreement goes in the setting. The Working Party, Centre and SV support the proposal of the Proposition to introduce a general ban on the use of personal watercraft, but with the possibility of a derogation. The right is opposed to bans, but is in favour of greater access to local regulations, while the Progress Party does not want any change to current practices or rules. I expect that the other parties will explain their positions as necessary. When the Right opposes a general ban on personal watercraft, it is for the following reasons: Firstly, noise caused by the use of high-speed small craft can be an equivalent problem to noise caused by the use of personal watercraft. It is therefore problematic to take out and ban one progeny. Secondly, there are considerable differences between municipalities and municipalities along the coast and also between lakes. What can be a problem one place can be quite unproblematic elsewhere. A general prohibition is not taken into account. The right is also a member of the local self-government in this case and has confidence that local politicians will introduce the necessary regulations as necessary. Thirdly, a general ban also leads to difficult demarcations. What is obviously considered to be a personal watercraft today doesn't have to be a personal watercraft tomorrow. We know how fast technology goes in this area and also how fast companies will convert these into no longer looking like watercrafts, but like something else, even though they might be. Fourth, we're of the opinion that motorsport can also be a good recreational activity. We are committed to facilitating both travel and tourism, and we believe that this is not adequately addressed by a general ban. Today’s legislation through the Law on Outdoors, Planning and Buildings and the Law on Ports opens up restrictions on the use of personal watercraft. There are already restrictions or prohibitions on their use in several municipalities. However, the right considers it desirable to have one general provision which, by way of regulation, allows municipalities to prohibit the use of personal watercraft in all or part of the municipality when it threatens natural and environmental quality. That's why the Right presents a separate proposal, which I allow myself to comment on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e146	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e149	By adopting a general ban on personal watercraft and other similar craft, the Left and the majority of the Committee wish to show a leading attitude towards goods. Although the use of personal watercraft is not so extensive for the time being in our country, the number of people is increasing, and more and more people are being plagued by the noise from these. Watercraft are used by private people for pleasure and sport, but their use is not environmentally friendly and is of great concern to the environment. Since these craft can be used in shallow waters, their use could easily affect both animal and plant life. High speed may mean that the use of personal watercraft may constitute an accident risk to bathers and other seafarers. This shows the experience of the United States, where these craft are more common. There is a high risk of serious accidents associated with this sport. It also appears that the Ministry of the Environment has received numerous enquiries about the new craft in recent years. There is particular noise related to recreational activities and natural use that is an increasing problem. The adoption of new rules for stricter regulation of the use of personal watercraft is important before the problem develops and becomes too extensive. It is also worth noting that a large majority of the hearing bodies have given general support to the Ministry's proposals. This suggests that both municipalities and other public authorities are aware of the problems of free movement of these craft. The fact that municipalities are able to make full or partial derogations from the prohibition in demarcated areas by regulation means that the Left considers that the interests of the tourism and tourism industries are adequately safeguarded and that water sports as recreational activities can be ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e162	This proposal to amend the law on recreational craft and small boats for the use of personal watercraft and the like actually initiated Thorbjørn Berntsen's time as Minister for the Environment. Time has passed, and the development of this craft has until now made it even more topical to get this into a law. The pressure exerted by user interests against the municipalities means that a majority of the committee considers it important to have a general ban confirmed, but that the municipalities can nevertheless grant exemptions for defined areas where use does not result in disadvantages for the general public. The majority of the Committee uses the precautionary principle to address, where possible, an increasing environmental problem in some parts of the country. The use of watercraft creates major noise problems and is a major nuisance for bathers, cabin owners and residents, but also for bird and plant life in the beach zone. Now, at the same time, it should be said that with the increasing number of high speed little boats you might want to consider whether noise restrictions are necessary for these too. Watermobile services are of little value and are considered to be leisure activities of the vast majority. Use is increasing, and this is a sport for the young. They go together and rent a watercraft for 1 000–1,500 per person. day and running all day. This occurs particularly in warm, fine summer days when others will only relax and enjoy good weather and Norwegian nature in as much stillness as possible. In fact, watercraft rental has become an industry in some places today. What I can defend is that this sport captures some young people who are looking for speed and excitement, and then it is important that exemptions can be granted that provide water sports as leisure activities, and that provide tourism and travel activities. On the right, it will reflect the bill and open up completely the watercraft drive against the fact that municipalities can by regulation prohibit the use of personal watercraft. This is almost similar to the arrangement that works today. In my opinion, it will mean that there is a constant deficit and that the need for local regulations will only be notified when the problems of use arise or have arisen. It will then be difficult to tighten up at a time when many have acquired a watercraft in good faith to use it almost unlimited, and then the municipality will have to impose a ban for various reasons. I think it is important to bear in mind that the consultation round in this matter gave a very solid welcome to the proposals of the Ministry of the Environment, not least from the municipalities. It is also important to see what Sweden and Denmark have experienced, and what laws our neighbouring countries exercise today. In fact, there is a general ban in both of these countries, and in Sweden, in order to be designated areas for the use of personal watercraft, the municipalities must again give their consent – that is, an even more stringent form than the Danish have and the Nordics now have. Several, including some statesmen, point out that municipal exemption should be further linked to the Law on Planning and Building, so that a regulatory plan is required before the derogations can be granted. Maybe it's the best way to put this into a proper system. Many have called for a law on the use of personal watercraft. Here we go. And hopefully this summer will already give us an answer as to whether the prohibition serves its purpose – namely to limit the use of personal watercraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e188	The amendment we are discussing today is, in the view of the Progress Party, far too rigid, extensive and bureaucratic. However, we agree that the use of personal watercraft can cause noise pollution and cause discomfort to bathers in some areas. However, we cannot participate in a general ban on this use. In today's legislation, individual municipalities have the opportunity to restrict or prohibit use in areas where this is desirable, and that is sufficient in our opinion. It is the individual municipality that knows where the shoe prints, and has the local knowledge that is necessary. It is with amazement one records that the parties who in election-apples and celebrations speak hot for local democracy, once again in practice shows that it is just empty talk. So, in the majority's view, one has to have a general ban. Nevertheless, local authorities shall be able to derogate in whole or in part from the prohibition on restricted areas, where such use does not endanger movement or the general public, nor does it pose a risk of significant damage to animal and/or plant life, as referred to in the legislative text. So here's a general ban on the possibility of exemption under very special conditions. As a liberal party, the Progress Party has the exact opposite starting point. We are generally opposed to unnecessary laws, regulations and bureaucracy. We will therefore have a general opportunity to use, but the possibility of limitation where this is desirable. This can be done in an excellent way with today's legislation. On the basis of this, we will vote against the proposed legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e203	Today we are re-treating a law that, in my opinion, intervenes in the everyday life of people. The reason for proposing a general prohibition is to read in the first paragraph of the setting: ‘Reference is made to the fact that watercraft, jet skis and similar smaller vessels in Norway are used for clean pleasure purposes, in addition to sports and competitions. Business activities are carried out by rental of personal watercraft, without the use of personal watercraft as such being said to have any special utility.’ And it's reinforced by: ‘The general public’s use of personal watercraft and similar devices is limited to pleasure driving and sport and has no other useful function.’ Isn't it useful to be allowed to have a little bit of fun and do some sports? It's amazing that the Storting will decide that we shouldn't be able to have it a bit polite and drive around a little bit for fun. I would like to admit that there may be a problem in the Oslo soil and in the densely populated strata in which we do our best to gather people. It's about making it so hard to live in the districts that people have to move here. I understand that there may be a problem here. But I have to honestly say that northwards on the Helgeland coast and out on the islands, where people soon don't live, there's an infinite good place, and there's no noise problem. I don't think there's any noise problem in the interior of Saltfjord and inward into the Wefsnfjord as well as Ranafjorden and all the big fjords. In the name of propriety, it must be a little sensible to adopt a general ban, if it was a problem – but there is no problem, at least not where I live. I do not understand that we should have a general ban in our area. Rather, it had to be possible to create a differentiated system, such as in the Right's proposal, that the municipalities should decide whether there should be any prohibition or not. We have legislation that punishes people who drive unwisely at sea. We have laws that punish people if they're running full. We have laws that punish people in all sorts of ways by unwise driving both on land and sea. We do not need a new law that limits the use of a general ban in Norway. We have to go back to both the debate on alcohol and the per mille limit on the sea. I do not know if the point comes out well enough, but it is compared to driving a car. You drive a car on the road, but you drive a boat in the ditch, you run in the ditch constantly with a boat – if you want to compare it with a car. That's what's the difference. What's being done here in this room, comparing boating and driving, is completely opposite. It seems that people don't come from Norway when they use such arguments. At least they haven't been near the sea and the sea. Once again, we are about to adopt a law that will make it harder and worse for people. I did something about getting a youth to buy a personal watercraft and get to use it, for example. in Lofoten, in Finnmarken or where it might be – maybe there are a five-six neighbours? So now the municipality is being asked to allow it to run! I have another example of a crazy law that has been passed – excuse my unparliamentary language. I have two guys – at least they were guys once in a while. We have it so on the coast that when they don't want to calm, they have to drive with a suspension motor. The rule was that as soon as they managed to start the engine by hand, they were allowed to drive by boat. You don't have to be more than seven-eight years before you can start a suspension engine, so they've been driving with a trailer engine since they were seven-eight years old. Now Stortinget has decided that it is illegal for these guys to drive a boat – one is twelve and one is fourteen. They're lawbreakers! I'm a criminal because I let my boys ride a boat they've been on for four or five years! There are such laws that are passed here in Stortinget. It's amazing! It's totally unreal to me as a representative who comes from the districts, to be part of this madness.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e226	The President wants to join the representative Bastisen's doubts as to whether it is right to call the laws passed in the Storting, insane. Perhaps you can find other parliamentary expressions. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e236	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e264	The party of progress has notified that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e333	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e341	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e347	During the debate, Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right, has put forward a proposal; it is included in the setting on page 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e393	The party of progress has notified that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e435	Here is a different proposal from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 June 1998 Paragraph 47 on recreational and small craft is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e471	The setting of § 39 is then contested. The Right Party and the Progress Party have notified that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e493	The party of progress here also has notice that they are going against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e522	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The President has understood that the Progress Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-25-lower.ana.ud603e534	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
