ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e44	The called alternates, for the Busherud County of Unni Hennum Lie and for the Rogaland County of Ingrid Fiskaa, have taken the seat. The request for the leave of the representative John Dale from 7 December to 8 December to attend the Baltic Assembly under the auspices of the Nordic Council of Vilnius, Lithuania, has been submitted by the Central Party’s Enlarged Group. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, is currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting on the Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox Other alternates of the county of Hordaland, Magnar Lussand, are invited to meet during the period of leave. 2nd@item: inlistbox Magnar Lussand is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of John Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e86	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The first speaker is Berit Brørby. The President will take the opportunity to congratulate Berit Brørby on the 50th anniversary of today!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e97	Thank you very much, President! The Municipal Committee today presents a budget in line with the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. A broad majority of the municipal committee is in favour of the Government's proposed disposals in the State budget for next year. This is joyous. Finally, we can say that a majority of the municipal committee is in favour of taking a good view of the municipal sector. The budget shows that the vast majority are committed to Community solutions and call for welfare throughout the country. We prioritise well-being and show that we want to upgrade the municipalities as the main service provider we have. The municipal sector is also experiencing an increasing need for services — more, better and more individualised services. It again challenges the municipal organisation. For the Workers' Party, good welfare policies are about good kindergartens and good schools, good public health provision and good public hospitals, child protection for the benefit of children and the provision of an economic safety net in the case of sickness and unemployment. We want as much as possible to benefit from the well-being that public services offer, and we want to protect the well-being of preserving and developing these good systems that are established. We all have opportunities to get the world's best welfare society, and it is reassuring that the vast majority of the Stortinge grant money for this, instead of providing significant tax reliefs in order to buy welfare services on a stock exchange. I really don't think that people most want it, the welfare should be there, right outside the door when you need it. In reality, this is about people's trust in public services, in public governance – and therefore also the confidence of politicians. We must fight against injustice and great differences. We do not go through this with strong central governance, nor by entrusting the welfare of the market with large-scale privatisation. Central governance is no guarantee of equality in supply; on the contrary, central governance weakens the possibility of participation and influence and solutions adapted to the individual environment and individual. Responsibilities and decision-making powers must be moved closer to people and out into the country, to the municipalities. The fact that we have now started to phase out the detailed management of the municipal sector and thereby opened up more municipal autonomy, by including earmarked grants equivalent to SEK 1.1 billion into the municipal income system is a small step in the right direction. Some political forces want to spend more money on budgets than the Norwegian economy can bear. I don't think that's a good idea. For the local government sector too, it is important that a responsible economic policy is pursued that makes the interest move downwards again. It will also give the local government more space for action. Because we should not forget that municipalities also pay debts and interest. There is a cause for concern about the economic situation in the municipal sector. We take responsibility for that by giving more money to the sector. The development of local government debt needs to be considered and the budget agreement ‘ordered’ a review. I don't think the municipalities serve the purpose of locking themselves to certain solutions for any debt cancellation for the municipalities. The Committee notes the imbalance in the finances of the local government sector, an imbalance that needs to be corrected over several years. It must be expected that the municipalities themselves will also contribute to improving the economic situation, through efficiency and innovation. Relying on the development of the economic framework conditions for the welfare society to the right would be a far too risky project. There's a majority on this. We've seen a slight increase in the numbers of the unemployed throughout the autumn, even though there are small numbers compared to the high numbers we had before. What is most worrying about these figures is that we know that the proportion of unemployed among immigrants is much higher than the average in the population. We have to do something about this. I think the tolerance for immigrants would increase if many more of them got work. For the Workers' Party, good refugee and asylum policies are also good employment policies. We have a job to do to get the most out of work. It's no different for these people than for all of us – having a job, living and feeling that one matters to others, and that society needs one. We look forward to the Government’s informed review of refugee and asylum policies addressing this important issue, including any measures to ensure that asylum seekers and refugees are rapidly offered language training and the possibility of paid work. Getting started early in working life and language training is important for a good integration into society. Individual competence is strengthened and one avoids inaction, isolation and inaction. The increasing shortage of labour that we are experiencing now only shows that there are enough problems to solve. But there's a shortage of people. As the Labour Party assesses, labour shortages cannot be solved by labour immigration alone. Too many refugees and asylum seekers remain in reception for too long, even long after they have been resident in the country. This is not easy to defend. Therefore, it is very positive that the Storting will increase the integration grant to municipalities receiving refugees, by over 20 p.m., to NOK 365 000 per year. person. We expect this to contribute to faster and better settlement of refugees. Through this we can say that Stortinget meets the requirements of the municipalities, as such an increase will cover the level of expenditure of the municipalities. The Committee looks forward to the Government coming back more closely with a review of this issue, too, in the notified notification of asylum and refugee policy. We still need active labour market policies. We still have well over 60,000 unemployed. We are only in the beginning of the reform of continuing education. We have a rigid system in relation to combining work and social security. We're very close to having more disabled people than we have industrial workers. Sick leave is high and long-term unemployment is increasing. We need a new labour law to improve working conditions. If we are to reduce sick leave, we must be able to give more room for action for the individual worker. Minor benefits under disease, as requested by the Right Party and the Advance Party, do not resolve sick leave. We also need a more active senior policy to get people to do their job further. We have a shortage of labour in Norway. We need more workers. And by the way, if we had had the same professional activity for women between 55 and 60 years in Norway as in Belgium, 100 000 fewer women had been in work. We have challenges for both professional participation and retirement. For the Workers' Party, mobilising a strong defence for the public sector is a main task. The public sector shall be renewed, renewed to improve, renewed to provide a basis for increased resource use, more and better services and fairer distribution. Here too, we must stand together and contribute together for the renewal of the public sector. Many municipalities are well advanced in the development of good and effective solutions, which meet the needs of their inhabitants. These are good models for other municipalities that have not started so well. The renewal of the public sector, the conversion and new use of labour are also important in relation to the use of financial resources in relation to the local government sector. Public sector renewal is about getting more user-oriented management, simplifying legislation and practices that promote good services to users. We must also dare to ask whether there is a need for the services provided, and what in that case should be done by the public. We must have less state detail management and build up greater local freedom. We need to get responsibility for problem solving and service production to the level that is best able to solve the problems. The Norwegian Municipal Council is to comply with more than 6 000 laws and regulations. This inhibits local self-government. I believe that the future debate on problem solving must not just be about units, sectors and levels of administration. We also need to recognise that the need for cooperation and coordination between levels is so great. The big task of renewing the public sector is not achieved without the involvement of employees – those who have knowledge. We have many challenges in preserving what we like to call Velferds-Norway. We have to make sure that the public offers are so good that they are not called into question. It's security and freedom we all want at the same time. Freedom is also that the public takes care of you when you need it in the different phases of life. We're gonna make sure of that. We can afford that in Norway. Otherwise, I will refer to the setting and make a correction. I want to correct a mistake on page 13, second column. This concerns the note from the Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left to initiate attempts at free-dominant communities. Here, too, Christian People's Party should be involved, so that there will be a majority behind this remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e154	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e157	The availability is increasing," said Brørby. But it could actually get worse, because in its original proposal for the 2001 government budget, the Workers' Party almost overcame itself to be the world champion in increasing taxes and taxes both for private companies and for businesses. However, the center parts came and took some kind of grip. They took command of the budget and were sent some of the Workers' Party's most burdensome tax increases in the workplace to pensioners and employees, which both camps seem to live well with today. Now there was no such short-term charge of 1.5 pst. from the Workers' Party, but they agreed on a business cycle fee of 10 pst. in private non-residential buildings for the next year. The result is almost an abrupt stop in the entry of commercial buildings. And some of the idea behind this was that carpenters should now build houses rather than operate with the construction of commercial buildings. But it's not as simple as that. Because there is a lack of land, there is a lack of regulation plans for housing, and the treatment time for doing this may be a year. So while there are carpenters who build commercial buildings, they are available. It takes time to get this in place. However, the economic cost will certainly put a stop to the construction of new industrial buildings. It will also cause lay-offs and recruitment errors in the construction industry, and it cannot be compensated for by residential construction. What is achieved with the economic cycle tax is to reduce the entire construction industry and to increase the pressure dramatically in 2002, when both the economic cycle tax and the investment tax are eliminated at the same time. Have any of these cyclical charges been recognised at all in the Labour Party, which will lead to permits in the construction industry in 2001 and complete chaos in 2002? Not only is it very bad for the construction industry, but it also affects overall industrial development, and most of the districts. This is very bad district policy. What kind of thinking does the Workers' Party have about this devastating economic cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e166	I thought the representative Andersen – who is also a carpenter, as far as I know – understood that the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties in particular want to use taxes and taxes to finance the Community solutions. If we were to do as the Progress Party – little tax and little tax – we would have had a completely different welfare society than what we have. We can only look at the proposal that the Progress Party has now promoted to cut several billion kroner, among others. in the municipal sector. It would have led to a fury of the Municipality of Norway, and especially in the northernmost counties. I think it is a little strange that Andersen's representative has such a difficult relationship with the short-term tax, when it is true that the Progress Party saved the government Bondevik a few years ago by voting in favour of the cyclical tax that was then proposed by the Bondevik government. The economic cycle tax should have a decreasing effect, but it does not enter into force until 2002. In terms of simplification of the rules, I actually agree with Andersen's representative that there is a lot to pick up in regulatory simplifications in relation to how to get speed in the housing construction in Norway. In any case, I do not think it is worrying that the investment fee falls away from 2002. It could almost sound like this when you heard Andersen's representative that he was worried that the investment fee was falling. On the contrary, I believe that this is a good contribution to speeding up investment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e175	I can congratulate the representative Brørby on a round day! The jubilee pointed to the need for Community solutions. Now she, like me, probably feels that the municipalities contact me and tell me that they have to cut down on the schoolwork, schoolwork and care for the elderly, because the municipalities have problems getting ends to meet. It was difficult last year, and worse it's going to next year, is reversed. And the microeconomy doesn't match the macroeconomy. Now the representative Brørby was sober, but does the representative realize that people out there are frustrated when the government presents the budget that 'everything is going so much better', while the local populace feels the opposite? I registered that the representative was satisfied with the cooperation with the center, and I am happy about that. And I understand that when the center stays in place one and a quarter billion to retirement pensions, 160 million. SEK for housing aid, millions for psychiatry, host municipality grants, drug supply, etc. and not less than 30 million. DKK to the 14 municipalities that were charged a higher EU employer’s fee. And then my question is, is the representative Berit Brørby happy on behalf of the municipalities for the improvements that the centre has received?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e186	The representative, Anita Apelthun Seele, asked if I agreed with her that it is a problem for the municipalities that they now have to cut into grants for schools, etc. Yes, of course I'm worried about that and see that it's a problem for the municipalities. But that's why the Labour Party government now suggested much more to the municipalities than what we had promised in our municipal economic proposition, and not only that, it's actually the best municipal arrangement in many years. Then I think it must be a paradox for the representative Apelthun Sæle that the Bondevik government, which was in the government offices for two and a half years, was not in the vicinity of getting as good a municipality as a majority in the Grand Duchy is now going to adopt. So to the question of whether I'm satisfied with the cooperation with the center. Yes, of course I am. It was just supposed to be missing. The solutions most people want can be found in the centre of Norwegian policy. The Labour Party and the Centre are in fact in agreement, and that is why we are using taxes and taxes to finance Community solutions. With regard to the 14 municipalities and the question of whether I am happy that they are compensated for the employer's fee, the answer is yes, but I see that it is part of the municipalities that have such good advice that they could have done without this money. I think that's right. But of course, I am happy that they get money, and I also expect them to be very happy that they get that money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e195	Let me put myself in the line of congratulations in connection with the 50th anniversary of the committee leader! I must nevertheless be allowed to say that I am not sure if today's anniversary has complete grassroots contact with the people. If you think that the tax policy under consideration is at the heart of the policy that the people of Norway want, that people around now are doing the wave of the increase in the electricity charge or the lack of reductions in the alcohol charge or the increase in the car tax or the introduced cyclical tax, I think you will need a little better ground contact. The representative, Brørby, said that they were pleased that they had now come on the right track to liquidate ear-marked products. I have found that at the first crossroads there is a slight retreat, namely that the budgetary agreement actually introduces more earmarked funds, and that it is not possible to take the small, tough ceilings that must be taken over by special interest groups, including internally within the Workers' Group, linked to earmarked funds. It will be much harder to take when we go further into the list of earmarked funds to be removed, with strong interest groups. Then you should be able to stand upright and take the changes that are needed, even at the first crossroads. I point out that it is suggested not to include the whole grant for camp schools anyway, but that a change has been made. We agree with the Labour Party that there is a need for strong innovation in the public sector, but so far we have not seen the results of these innovations. I have one specific question for the committee leader. Now that the government has decided to take over the health sector, but the National Labour Party meeting has nevertheless said that it wants to maintain a third level of government in Norway, how is it to ensure that there is no duplication of work? For just all the tasks that have been discussed in terms of regional policy in order to provide the third level of government with a view to strengthening it, there will be duplication of tasks in relation to the primary tasks of municipalities, such as: on regional development, spatial planning. What it looks like is that you add up to getting more double work instead of making it easier, for example. removing large parts of the currently existing planning instrument that the evaluations show are not working.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e206	Just one observation: the level of taxes and charges is about the same level as we had years before. There are only slightly different elements in the level of taxation. So the production that the tax and tax levels have a steep curve up is not right. If people really got a sense of what it was like to choose a service by lowering taxes a lot and buying that service on the street, and you really faced such a choice, I think you would choose the Community solutions and pay taxes and have the security that there are offers that are there when you need it, right outside the door saying. The representative Erna Solberg is concerned with the earmarked funds and that it will be a difficult struggle to get them out. I fully agree with that. I think that's going to be difficult for anyone, and there's going to be powerful lobby groups that think that the exact thing that the ear-marked grant has to pass, we can't touch it, because it has it and that device and that and that function. Therefore, I can only admit that I was not very pleased that the camp schools in the budget agreement were reinstated as earmarked grants. It's not something that I've been irritating for, for my part, at least. With regard to the renewal of the public sector, which I think is all in agreement that we need, Erna Solberg refers to the Workers' Party's decision at our national meeting to maintain a third level of government. It is not unknown that I have thought that we should have looked at that more closely and perhaps phased out. But the decision is there, and I believe that this is the basis for a review of the division of tasks that is to be done now – with which the government has already started, but which comes in full width after Christmas – even if we are to maintain a third level of government. My intention is that we need to allocate more to the municipalities and, of course, also look at the double work that is being done, and also the regional state of the county has to undergo the same assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e217	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e221	I have to say that it's a little pathetic to right the line change between the budget buddies where they owe each other because the municipalities are so bad. There are some of us who have tried to tell us that this budget option is not something special, either for municipalities, for private businesses or for Norway. Because here in Norway one makes the exact opposite of what one does in the vast majority of countries we can compare with when it's up to increasing taxes and charges and charges for most people. It prevents creativity, it prevents growth, it prevents initiative, etc. That's why it wasn't so obvious that today's anniversary – I have to be allowed to count on congratulations to the committee leader – didn't answer the question in the reply from Torbjørn Andersen. The municipal arrangements of the Progress Party will increase the freedom of action of the municipalities. It will also provide an overall better economic policy, which will boost employment and increase value creation – this because one will have a dynamic effect of providing tax reductions. One will lower prices and thus create the need for new jobs, create opportunities for growth in business. Our scheme that the companies get the opportunity to fund money is also a significant change that should perhaps be a reflection of a number of other parties. But the vast majority of other parties want to have nutrition funds, where a bloodsick business and businesses out in the surplus district, to drag it in and then distribute it out again, such a find it for good, actually without considering whether the companies have the ability to survive, have the product that they can sell, and have the ability to drive product development. No, then the politicians are here in this house and distribute these funds where they think they have the most possible votes to pick up. It makes the companies unfree. This means that the companies are not able to meet on their own when things go a bit counter-clockwise. It will again say that the companies are not able to meet this on their own. Then a tying must be for public support. Imagine if companies could be allowed to set aside surplus funds, which would give them the opportunity to meet difficult times with their own money, money that they had saved. I'm overconfident that this would lead to the money that one would spend – which is, to the extent, the same money, it's just that one has had the opportunity to save themselves – that one would spend in a much better and more sensible way than when one spends money as one gets distributed because one finds it too well, according to the mood we politicians are going to distribute them are in the different cases. We've got a government council that, if he can't renew Norway, will go off and be snitched again – he put here in the hall for an instant. I have to say that when we see the renewal rate that's now happening, and when we're in the Labour Party, and also when we're talking about the budget agreement, I don't have the big expectations that it's going to be the big renewal in the municipality sector in Norway in the near future. Because here's one of the things that comes out of the back when you're trying something new. One is not willing to see the potential, for example. to stimulate competition in municipal services. And it's not about privatizing Grandma. It's not about privatising; it's about, it's about, the state having financial responsibility for health, care and education, and we can somehow get this price funded. What is supposed to be the community's work is to verify that the money is spent wisely, that we get a qualitatively good supply for those who want it. I'm surprised that the budget buddies then put up with who produces these services. I have to say, to me, it is entirely uninteresting whether the service of the older sheep that is qualitatively good is produced by a public authority or by a private enterprise. It doesn't matter. The most important thing is that these people get a supply that is worthy of this state. I don't understand. It is possible that I can get an explanation of this during this debate. I don't mind the fact that the public wins in competition with the private -- like it. That's not the point. I think some public hospitals in competition would be able to knock out private hospitals. Nice! For me, not the most important thing – to use the SV term – is ‘to put Grandma on the offer’, the most important thing is that her grandmother gets well. For me, it's not the main thing, as it is for SV, that it's the public that's going to produce the service, and then it's not that close to how Grandma does it. For me, the most important thing is that her grandmother gets well. Then it doesn't matter to me who it is that has produced those services. For me, the most important thing is that students in school receive a high-quality education. If teachers are added to a private school or in a public school, it doesn't matter. When we know that those who have tried this actually see that there is a saving potential of between 5 pst. And 20 pst., I also don't realize that one isn't willing to go into these systems. It is also strange to note the interesting struggle that takes place in the Labour Party between the leader of the Committee and the municipal and regional ministers when it relates to the intermediate part of public administration, namely the county. The councils have apparently now begun to slide and will no longer go in for five regions, but have the impression that one should perhaps have nine, while the committee leader said here that she wanted to remove the county municipality. We'll again say welcome after. Once again, the Progress Party has provided a premise for a political solution to things where we understand it is not a good solution, simply to have the county municipality as a political and administrative body. For my part, I hope and believe that it will be the committee leader who wins the Labour Party, not the Council of State. So at the end, I also have to comment a little on this arrangement with the budget work in Stortinget. I thought the Presidency should go on its own and discuss whether this is a sensible arrangement. I think the work that is now being done in the committees on this proposal is completely uninteresting, completely wasted time, because here we are going to be using a three-four-hour debate on a budget that the Committee on Budgets has put down. For it is stated in paragraph 5 that during the examination of the technical budget ‘on those points where no change has been agreed, the parties undertake to vote in favour of the Government’s proposal’. I want to say right away: I'm not mad that we can't be in this budget line. I'm almost happy that we're not part of this arrangement, I just have to say. But when even its members are in fact equally frustrated, and not only in the municipal committee, but also in other committees, then I think it should be a reflection. It's hopeless; when the budget agreement leads to the whole agreement being locked down in the mail, there's not much we can do. At that time, it would be much more sensible to spend time on other policy issues in the Municipal Committee and leave the entire budget item to the Finance Committee. So I just want to bring up the suggestions where the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e249	Lodve Solholm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e254	The Progress Party has programmed that most, perhaps all, positive instruments for North Norway should be removed. We have major challenges in North Norway, and if the positive instruments are removed, it would be impossible, at least very difficult, to achieve a good development within, for example. aquaculture and fisheries. My question is therefore: What does the representative, Lodve Solholm, think should replace the tools that the Progress Party will remove? Will we have a liquidation, or will there be a development with the proposals of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e259	I tried to say it in my post. But it's clear, as an old learner, I know that there's not always one that's closed in its educational assignment, easy to explain to the audience something of a mine. To repeat that, when we remove the tools, the state transfers to North Norway, we will put in another tool, that is to say, the values will stay where they are created. And then when we know that Coast Norway probably stands for between 60 and 70 pst. of the value creation in this country, it is said that the districts will be left with the values. Then we don't have to suck them through big taxes and taxes and take the money back into Oslo, and then distribute them back into regional additions, ski jumps, North Norway flashes, etc. etc. Businesses will then spend the money on their own bank account for good times, save money and meet difficult times with their own money, and will be able to spend their own money on product development and marketing. Then I'm overestimated that the money is spent much more sensibly than when one spends another's money – as in this case. I'm overindulging that if one gets such a hold that values remain in the districts where they are created, we don't need so much of other district policy tools, except that the state and the public are responsible for road construction and the public services in health, care and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e266	The representative, Lodve Solholm, said the most important thing was that Granny was well cared for. Like the previous replicator, I wonder if this applies to the whole country. With regard to just the grants Solholm had in mind, North Norway grants and regional grants, the Progress Party said in its comments: ‘These members disagree in principle with the reasons for these items, the purpose of which is to create different financial assumptions in the municipalities. Popularly called district policy. These are measures that favour some municipalities at the expense of others and create major inequalities in the municipality of Norway.’ I wonder if it is such that the Progress Party has not actually discovered that there are initially major differences in Norway. Is that why it goes so wrong in the Progress Party that they intend to remove practical, sensible instruments – they have not discovered this and have seen that one of the prerequisites of our entire income system, where we have many criteria and weigh them differently, is that Municipality-Norway across the country should be given an opportunity to create good care, among other things. for grandma? Doesn't the Progress Party realize that the difference that is requires that we have tools so that municipalities can have equivalent conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e278	I notice that it's North Norway against the Progress Party, and that's understandable after the last Gallup in North Norway. Well, I understand, but that's the exact opposite that happens. If you look at the tables in the setting, you will see the difference in money allocated to similar municipalities, Loppa and Aremark, which are located on the outskirts. And I don't hear anything other than that the municipality of Aremark has the same difficulty and the same faith as the municipality of Loppa, but Loppa is left with 46 million. kr in relation to Aremark, which has 23 million. NOK, i.e. half, via these tools. The system we want is to finance the price of health and care, where the state has the financial responsibility and it's not random municipal economy that is guiding whether you can create an old-age care service there or there. By implementing such a system of state financial responsibility, one could have the same offer to her grandmother regardless of geography, regardless of the municipal economy and regardless of random priorities in a municipal sector where this hall thinks that the most important, task no. One is the care of the elderly. A big deal was that it should be; in 1997 we made a decision in this house to put the care of the elderly as case no. 1st@item: inlistbox Then we'll have an offer. To the representative of Østberg and others, I would like to refer to the table showing discrimination between municipalities. And I just want to show you my answer to Einar Johansen about how this can be smoothed out through tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e287	It is probably not only North Norway against the Progress Party, it is also SV against the Progress Party in this matter as in most. SV is concerned with the quality and quantity of public services. Elder care and schools should be so good that they meet the needs and requirements of the population. And what's the problem now is that there's not enough money in the system, so that the standard difference in what we have privately, and what we get from public services, becomes so big that people don't accept it. The Progress Party and SV have completely different solutions to this. SV is opposed to outsourcing because we cannot understand why taxpayers' money should go to profits in private enterprises. Why in the world couldn't we spend that money on better care for the elderly and better schools? And when the Progress Party shows that they have done this in other countries, it is then that the Progress Party is not aware that both Denmark and Sweden have a higher share of public consumption in the total economy than in Norway, and that these services, for example. in the case of elderly care, where those who have put out tenders and received savings are still above Norwegian public services in price? That means that we actually don't have the savings potential that the Progress Party thinks is there, and so in addition, someone has to have a profit on it. It's incomprehensible to SV. But I think it would have been okay if the Progress Party had soon told the Norwegian people how much of the taxpayers' money they think should go back as a profit to these businesses, and that in that way should be taken away from the elderly and nursing, or schoolchildren, who need better school construction and better learning material.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e296	SV revealed itself a little now: against competitive outsourcing and thus yes to quantity and no to quality. That's the SV policy, absolutely obvious. It's a little strange, because if a private company might tend to do the production of health services – that there will be a few dollars left, it's a good thing – then the municipality still thinks about it. And our point is that we get quality. Look at the public hospital service we now have. Is SV so terribly proud that today there are probably 200,000 people in a health queue because one should insist that nothing should be put out of competition, that one should not buy services from private people, that one should not buy healthcare from abroad when needed? And then one talks about the progress party being hearty and cynical. Yes, if the representative Karin Andersen had run a private hospital and put a few dollars on it, and if I was sure her company would create a better offer for those who would get the service at Hospital Andersen, I would like to have Andersen pay a few dollars if we were guaranteed that the quality was better than in the public sector. And I'm overestimated that competition creates quality, it creates quality in public as well. This means that the public can also save so that we get even more money to spend. And just to have said that in the end, the Progress Party always has proposals to increase efforts in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e303	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e306	On Sunday I read about a woman in Bergen who offered in a van, she was exhausted and had no opportunity to own a dwelling on her own. And because she was without a home, she didn't get to be with her children either -- she was infinitely sad, and not acceptable in a welfare society. So this budget is not just about technical sizes, interest rates and economic effects, it's about welfare. It's about people in the local environment who unfortunately don't always get the help they need. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we are able to keep the housing arrangement at 160 million. kr for the minimum pension list attached to layers. Cutting the system with the help of light and heat for our minimum pensioners with expensive building costs had been very unsocial. For the Christian People's Party it was necessary to get that order back in place. Blast means a lot to many of the older people who have the least. It's about welfare, it's about respect. It's too hard to throw those who have toiled a whole life into a situation where they can't get the end to meet. The support system is highly accurate. Many municipalities work hard with new tasks, and many of them are not fully funded. Greater demands and, not least, wage increases have caused many people to suffer from operating deficits. Of course, everyone is happy that the budget agreement gave DKK 1.25 billion more. Now we do not do well to cover pension contracts. Too many people, it means a lot of money, for example, for Bergen. approx. 200 million. kr, which they did not have. It's better that they concentrate on helping a woman like me. Local authorities always complain – they always need more, some say. Well, this year, the municipalities and the state actually agree on what is needed – it's $11 billion, and it hasn't got the municipalities, and it's got consequences. It's going to go to school, to care for the elderly and to protect the child. It's the feedback I get from small municipalities with an overview of all of their inhabitants. The central association of municipalities and the government have agreed on what one is missing. One has the facts. But the center also understands that it's hard to find a financial basis to allow more. That's why we tried to find another twist: what about indebtedness? Even on TV, people put up with knowledge tests to clear up a little debt. It might be better to cut debt than to spend more money on it. Of course, it needs to be done in a fairly fair way, and KS has mentioned the possibility of using the criteria used in the income system. New funds have also been tied up in new measures this year. Indebtedness recovery might help municipalities for many years with much more free means – that means strong local self-government. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that when the Government now commits itself to a review of the debt situation in the municipalities, debt restructuring could be an instrument for a better local economy in the future. In our municipal economics proposition, the center had more areas that we wanted to assess in more detail. This applies to the regional advantage, with a very steep threshold of 3,000 inhabitants, it applies to the capital and not least to the regional advantage, which we should think should be considered as separate schemes without shifts in the urban advantage of all municipalities. In cooperation with the Labour Party, there are now multiples for such reviews. It is clear to the Christian People's Party, and to me as a hordelding, that cooperation has also caused the 14 municipalities that received a higher employer's fee due to EEA requirements and that were promised compensation, now get full compensation, over 30 million. kr on sharing. It's very happy too because it's a very locked arrangement we get from the finance committee, but it can therefore negotiate new solutions at committee level. Nine of these municipalities are located in Hordaland, and they have a difficult adaptation process as well as the tight frames. I can promise you it was a thrill at many municipal houses this weekend. So cooperation gives us very good results. Other plural numbers were also formed. I am very pleased that a broad number of people are asking for drugs and social conditions to be tried to incorporate as a criterion into the income system. Russ with the following chosen and damage works is such a big problem, especially in cities, that it should be reflected in the income system. An error has occurred in the configuration of the late night hours. Berit Brørby did fine. The Christian People's Party is involved in asking the Government to proceed with the free-dominant attempt. I hope that several of the municipalities that have been selected will take a trip to Denmark and visit them, for example. Farum municipality. The Christian People's Party believes that Kommune-Noreg has a lot to learn by turning the tile and doing things in a new way, by setting up some of the local authorities' responsibilities – and not least by simplifying them. A simpler Norway must be created at municipal level. And a simpler Norway is a better Norway to live in. It's agonizing for municipalities, for businesses and for people most to stick to a bunch of laws, rules and regulations. One of the difficult points in this budget for the Christian People's Party is Aetat. We're worried that today's organization of services against payment creates unclear lines. Cross-subsidy is a nearby problem when the same person can offer both payment services and traditional Aetat free services. We were tempted to ask the Government to implement the Ot.prp intentions immediately. No 70 for 1998-1999, by the Bondevik government, which had as its mandate that payment services should be organised through a limited liability company. However, on the basis of the scandals that have been in Aetat, and the review that the establishment must have at all times, we find it reasonable that final organisation will be postponed to our own cause, or to the revised national budget. We believe, along with the majority, that the organisational model chosen must ensure a level playing field and ensure that cross-subsidisation and stability problems are avoided. The Competition Authority is, in our opinion, the body for such assessments. The budget that the municipalities have to deal with next year is far better than what was the starting point of the Stoltenberg government. But there are certainly many challenges that the municipalities have to struggle with next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e332	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e336	The contradictions between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are in the area we are dealing with today, not the very big ones. This relates to housing aid, and to municipal economy. It's kind of weird when the Christian People's Party is going to try to rematch things that they've already lost, and that we know there's a majority for here in the Storting. In the setting one tries again to change the municipal income system, which was adopted in the spring in the treatment of the municipal economic proposition. Proposals are made for a thorough review of the impact of the changes. My question to the representative Apelthun Seele is then: Is it the liquidation of the loss compensation it aims at? Is it the hordal municipalities that get too much money? What is the Christian People's Party really going to have a new thorough review of? I have also noticed that the Christian People's Party in its comments says that the budgetary agreement led to increased appropriations in relation to district policy. I think that's taking it really hard. The Labour Party has always believed that it is important to pursue an active regional and district policy, and that is what we also put up in the budget this time. We actually added so much money that even SND was reasonably satisfied. But it was before the budget agreement. If I do not remember completely incorrectly, SND's funds were cut by approx. Twenty-five million. kr in relation to the government provided. It's not very good district policy, is it? What does the representative Apelthun Seele think?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e347	Rematches are not to be despised if they result in something good for municipalities. And there have been some rematches when it comes to this budget as well, not least for the 14 municipalities that were supposed to have compensation, and that didn't get it in the budget, but that have now received full compensation, which they need. One also has to review the income system, which is negotiated with alternating plurals, both in terms of the area of waste, the thresholds and several other fields where we have multiples in this budget, but where we did not have multiples when it broke the municipal economic proposition in our budget. So rematches are not to be despised if it leads to something good. We want a broader review of the entire income system, because we think the macro and the micro don't match. Many municipalities are so weak and have so many problems that we have to see if the transmission system turns out very wrong. That's what we want to do. When it comes to district policy, the Christian People's Party has a great sense of SND and that the regional policy instruments we have must be taken care of. Nevertheless, the budget that was presented posed posed major challenges in relation to our business, which are just in the districts, and which we must take care of if we are to have the means to create a good municipality of Norway for years to come. Therefore, we had to give priority to and strengthen our business situation. This probably led to some unfortunate results, but nevertheless we believe that when Business Norway can function, and when business has reasonable conditions, we also have the possibility to build Norway further. And that's most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e358	The representative Anita Apelthun Seele made a post where she said that the Christian People's Party is for simplification and conversion. That's promising. Now it is that the Christian People's Party wants to profile itself as a party for the districts, and that fights to turn the movement flow from the towns into the cities again. Until now they have failed with it. Among the most important pillars of Norwegian district policy to help ensure settlement throughout the country are the income system for municipalities, differentiated employer’s fees and agricultural policy. That's what this is all about. With regard to the role of agricultural policy in rural policy, it is interesting to note that a researcher at Norway's agricultural high school at Ås, Olaf Holm, recently published a book in which he concluded that housing on farm has fallen, and that it is hampering the rural and innovation both in the districts and in agriculture. So there are more disadvantages than there are benefits. That the nobility and concession system is no advantage to District Norway, several of us have known for a long time, but some still consistently refuse to realize this fact. My question is: how nuanced is the Christian People's Party in the view of the role of agriculture in district policy? Does the Christian People's Party see it as important to maintain today's legislation in the field of housing and compulsory employment, or can a person consider an embellishment in this area? And does not the Christian People's Party see that the noble and concession laws do not work, that the villages are slowly depopulated, and that there is a need for innovation, simplification and conversion – as the representative Apelthun Seele mentioned at the outset – as regards the role of agriculture in rural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e371	Simplification and conversion, a simpler Norway, was one of the most important projects that the Government of Bondevik took on. We got far. We did a lot, but there was a lot, a lot left. It still does, and it's a challenge for the Progress Party as well as for the Christian People's Party and the other parties here in the Stortinget. As other representatives have said from this pulpit before, it is strenuous for business, for most people and for the municipalities to align themselves with a number of laws, regulations and regulations that may to some extent also counteract each other. We'll work on that. Then to the moving current. While the government put Bondevik, for the first time, could record that the moving current stopped, that people might once again think to live in the district, that centralization didn't have the same speed as before. Perhaps it had to do with farming where the farmers and the state were some, to do. A given that both parties could live with, a given for agriculture that has so far prevented Norway from being haunted by both jealousy and other madness, that is to say, an agricultural business that allows us to take care of pure food and living areas. When it comes to the obligation to obey, the law of no part and the law of concession, these are complicated laws. We actually had some softening, and one was looking at the nobles' legislation and at least under obligation. I almost thought it was bold of the Progress Party to ask questions to the Center and the Christian People's Party about precisely agriculture. The same party has a policy that would upset whole agriculture, which is very little future in relation to what we see in Europe exactly in that area. Agriculture in Norway, as a clean, district-friendly small-scale agriculture, I believe I have a future for myself in absolutely every way. Maybe we'll be the biggest exporter of agricultural products in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e380	Let me start with something that may have been mentioned earlier in the budget debate, namely that the government's proposal for a government budget was extremely tax-intensive for business, and thus correspondingly gloomy for District Norway. Some improvements have been made through the conciliation, but in the Financial Newspaper yesterday we still see that the business community is raging against lower depreciation rates. Lower depreciation rates are the largest tax tightening within the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Centre, it is claimed. The low depreciation rates involve a tax tightening of over DKK 2.6 billion. We're very worried, says the NHO. It is quite terrible, and for many companies, this has far more negative consequences than the cyclical tax contained in the Labour Party's draft budget. If we look back a few years, the strupping of the write-off options has been stronger in District Norway than in central areas, and my question to the Christian People's Party representative is whether you are particularly pleased with this very grip in the conciliation, when you see what kind of effects this will have for possible future initial investments and the travel of business buildings in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e389	I am pleased that the representative from the Right can now admit that there were some improvements in the economy after the conciliation. I'm glad. There were absolutely necessary changes the center required for Norway to grow and thrive. And then the question is whether one is satisfied with lower depreciation rates. No, I can't say that, that's for companies that live. The business cycle would be completely flat, both red-digit companies and companies with important employment effects where they were located. Maybe it would hit the legs of many of the businesses that we know have red numbers and almost red numbers in District Norway. It was important for the center to get rid of this cyclical charge, which would affect the whole of our business life. Similarly, if it were to pay VAT, it would have been almost 'active death aid' for the tourism industry in Norway. It's an industry that can hardly take higher prices. It would be devastating for an industry that we believe is growing in District Norway. We can sell Norway as a clean country with experience tourism, and the industry could get a shot for the bow if we hadn't got a 0-VAT. When you get some sweet drops, you often also have to swallow some bitter pills, and I think of the depreciation bets as a bit of a bitter pill, but as it is possible to live with a year's time. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e400	Anita Apelthun's seal has taken up the suggestion to which she referred. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e405	The situation with regard to the depreciation rules, which were just concerned, is that during two budgetary procedures, 4 psts have been lost. For 1 pst. in depreciation for commercial buildings in District Norway. It's pretty radical. This means that there is no provision for initial investment into District Norway through the accounts. We have asked a question to the department that we have not yet received an answer to, but we expect the answer to be yes. They have in 10 days not been able to answer what the consequence of this will be, for example. key district policy areas such as business areas and incubator activities. All these are enterprises that are largely located in commercial buildings to be built and for which radically worse depreciation rates have now been granted, combined with a business cycle charge on the same commercial buildings, which in practice will mean that what is not contracted for now is not going to be contracted for the next year. This hits mainly District Norway, because the margins are at least there. That's what makes it so serious that you use it. So in sum, the centre and the Workers' Party have now made major changes in two years. But it is possible that it is so overheating in District Norway that there is a need to cool down in terms of setting up and developing new jobs. It may also be appropriate to consider why incentives should be available in other parts of the budget. This is the fourth budgetary position issued by the Municipal Committee during this period — the fourth budgetary position under the new budgetary system, and in my view the least intriguing budgetary procedure in the Municipal Committee during this period. Over the other three years, the majority have made changes to the sizes and re-priorities of the budget. The majority constellation has not done so today. There has been a unanimous ‘compulsory’ on the part of the majority parties, despite this small piece of compensation for the 14 municipalities. So they're not adding money, but it's given an instruction to the government from a unanimous committee. So long as the majority agreement would prevent this from happening before you were able to get a unanimous committee, even though I don't think the centre parties could say that there is a reconciliation that has made this possible – that is, as long as the conciliation would make it impossible. I'm glad that didn't make the conclusion. The centre parties have been basted and bound by the Workers' Party in order not to make any changes. They have also had no alternative budget, so it has really been impossible to see what the centre parties have wanted to do within these budgets this year. Not even such an important theme as strengthening the work of minors, single asylum seekers and ensuring closer follow-up and strengthening measures, has it been possible to get the majority on because numbers have been locked up. Box 6 has a total expenditure frame of 16,5 billion kroner. A few million to some of the perhaps weakest in our society, therefore, it has not been possible to do so, and I find that sad – sad because, despite the fact that in a few weeks there has been a big message about asylum, immigration and integration policies, there has been a need for immediate action. Through a clear marshy now we could get a better everyday life for the minor asylum seekers and made it easier for them to follow through in their own proceedings, and we could get a chance to follow them up even if they moved outside the receptions. When the Storting has completed the treatment of the Storing Message, it is likely that at least three months have passed, if not more. In its proposal for the disposal of Framework 6, the right had also, in its primary draft budget, prioritised an increase in support measures for the 9 million single asylum seekers. kr. Within this, we wanted to strengthen receptions when it came to child-care competence and to establish a better organization of the work – a mechanism we see to be extended in relation to today’s system, with a combination of the watchkeeping functions and support contact functions. This would provide a better and closer follow-up both of the minor asylum seekers who disappear, and of those who are in private, with friends and acquaintances. So we didn't do this because it wasn't possible to re-prioritize 9 million. kr within a total framework of 16,5 billion kroner. Everything else was higher priority from the majority. In addition to an increase in support measures for minor asylum seekers, it was essential for the right to maintain the original function of the housing aid scheme for minimum pensioners. The housing aid was to be a targeted income supplement for those among the pensioners who had the most difficult and who had the highest boute fees. In our principal draft budget, where there was no increase in the electricity charge, we therefore proposed to maintain the so-called stencil, or the grant of light and heat, in the housing aid scheme. I am pleased that the middle parties helped the Workers' Party to maintain this arrangement for the next year. But the real value of it will drop, because the same batches make sure that the electricity charge increases by 2.5 cents. We have therefore chosen to add compensation in the template for the increased price increase in our redeployment of the framework 6, so that the minimum pensioners who receive housing benefit do not have a real income drop, but an opportunity to be shielded from the electricity tax increase that the majority of people apply to them. We think that's the right distribution policy. Then we use the targeted instruments we have to ensure that an irresponsible charging policy does not affect the weak, the retired or others. Nevertheless, they must live with the increases in fees which the majority have so generously paid in addition to the families with children and pensioners in their ordinary budget. The situation with regard to the proceedings of the Foreign Affairs Directorate, UDI, has since assumed dimensions which make it highly necessary to make fundamental changes to the legislation. Document No In addition to generally liberalising labour immigration, 8 proposals that have been promoted by the Right, on labour immigration, also focus on facilitating the processing of work permits. If the Right’s policy had been implemented, therefore, the resource access provided by the UDI in this budget would lead to a far greater possibility of prioritising asylum seekers and other matters, thus reducing the time taken to deal with them. I don't think it's possible today to just keep popping up with resources to the UDI to reduce the processing time. I think we need to do something more basic about the UDI process. I see that the Council of State has started the work, and I have expectations that we can get something into the processing of the forthcoming big message. In the vote and in previous debates here in Stortinget, I have said – and I say that – that I am embarrassed when it comes to dealing with individual cases – for example. Visitability to Norway from countries subject to visa obligations — now almost over one year. It is difficult to defend that we have had conditions that remind us of how the Eastern European countries worked before the fall of the wall. Last year, the Municipal Committee was unanimous in its concern that both the bottleneck of asylum treatment and the settlement policy and the compensation system for municipalities should be reviewed. Unfortunately, in the period during which this work has been carried out and investigated, both parts have become worse. Although the number of residents stays up, the need is increased because there are more people who have been in reception for a long time. We're going to get a little bit on the way with the increase in the housing allowance. Then the municipalities should not use the economy as an argument for not receiving refugees. For the right, it is also important that, through the labour market and the policies we have in the various welfare areas, we mobilise domestic resources through other types of measures. We believe that Aetat should be a much more qualified site instead of spending time and forces on, for example, the environment. payment services. We have therefore made other proposals relating to changes in labour market policy. Some of them are located in the border country of what is already being done today. However, we often feel that some good measures are between two chairs because they do not fit fully into the schematic labour market approach design, so we lose out on good measures that could help. I am not in favour of the Committee requiring large public agencies to implement many individual measures. But the majority have done that, and they've done it repeatedly, with one clear reason: these are measures they think work well, and the reports they've seen show that they work well. But they don't fit into the quadrilateral that's within the different systems. Therefore, it has been difficult for Aetat to prioritize them or to give them money. Sometimes you don't want to. The budget ceiling for the local government sector set by the Right, which has been dealt with through the financial position, is largely in line with the arrangements that we agreed with the Labour Party on when it came to the arrangement and size of the local economy for next year in the context of the municipal economic proposition. There's still a couple of things related to this I could imagine taking up. It is primarily the fact that the introduction of VAT on services results in new major problems relating to public sector innovation projects in municipalities. There is a need to follow this up with VAT on services, which a majority has introduced, so that municipalities can have neutrality over whether they have services on their own or whether they buy services. This means that the system of compensation for VAT needs to be extended. I'm not quite sure if we have any independent suggestions. I think the Progress Party took up the proposals we have in common with them. If we have some of our own suggestions, I'll take them up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e439	The President also has the impression that the proposals have been taken up by the Progress Party, but for sure we should check it. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e444	I prefer to take a line on the right. I could actually also do it on the Christian People's Party, because it's a common remark. Aetat has been the bearer of a very successful fight against unemployment in Norway. Although we lack people in many industries, we now have up to 70,000 unemployed. It can only be solved through good labour market services and can only be implemented by a strong Aetat. Aetat was allowed to run a temporary agency from 1 July this year to allow users of AMO services to get a job through a temporary agency run by Aetat. This offer will not allow private temporary employment agencies to take care of it. I am therefore surprised at the majority’s comment on payment services that are in the suspension. This is one of the main things for the Right. The services provided by Aetat in return for payment by the employer shall be complementary to the ongoing services provided by the establishment and contribute to the promotion of the objectives set for the activities of Aetat. Core Aetat services shall continue to be provided free of charge to jobseekers and employers, including private employment agencies and private employment services. The centre of gravity of the establishment's efforts shall continue to be directed towards the servicing of ordinary job-impaired jobseekers and the sale of business services shall not adversely affect the use of resources for free services. No payment shall be made by jobseekers and the sale of business services can be offered throughout the country. My question to the Right is: have we forgotten the unemployed in the fight against private temporary employment agencies from entering and providing services that they will not be able to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e455	I don't think the representative Leif Lund should be surprised at what's coming from the majority of the caste, because this case we've been dealing with sometimes in the last few years. The right-hand position has been reasonably clear. We therefore believe that Aetat should be primarily a body engaged in qualification work for those who really have problems in the labour market over a long period of time. That's why we have a stronger social profile on what Aetat should do, than the Workers' Party has chosen in its comments before, and we still have. We've been through a process where we've also looked into whether Aetat will be able to bring something into a market of temporary employment services, which we've been concerned about really being able to achieve, because it's an important part of welfare policy in the future to have a flexible labour market. But we've figured out that we don't think it's possible to neutralize this competition. So we don't think it's right to organise the work by Aetat running it on his own. If you go back and look at Ot.prp's settings. No 70 for 1998-99, which the Committee issued last year, we said that the option to do so is to conclude partnership agreements with the existing private employment agencies, so that they can take care of the disadvantaged in the labour market and help them to go through normal temporary employment agencies into working life, i.e. to use them more as a social instrument rather than direct action by the State and the Aetat. It is an alternative to the form of organisation in which the state is to do so. I think that's a better option. We have also promoted a document No. 8 proposals on some of the same thing, namely that the instruments for disabled people and other disabled people who are currently on re-employment can follow them, for example. through private intermediaries or through a temporary agency which has the type of services. It's a system that the disability association itself wants, which came out in statements to us when we dealt with Ot.prp. No 70 for 1998-99. If it's true that the organizations of those who have the most problems actually want other means than those you offer, then you should listen to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e469	On the right was the cross-political agreement, which adopted an action plan for better care for the elderly in the spring of 1997. Status after two years shows that costs were higher than expected. However, the size of the provision is such that very few municipalities, if any, would not strengthen the care of the elderly during this period. Higher property than calculated by means of either larger borrowings or cuts in other areas. When the Centre Party has called for partial debt cancellation for the municipalities, it is precisely because we see that both the old-age reform and the basic school reform are underfunded. We can now see that the Right is also concerned about the situation in the municipalities. We are also looking forward to the Right getting involved in the follow-up to the review and discussion of the debt situation in the municipalities that the Government is now going to conduct. You already know that the Right is not the most prominent barricades for growing frames in the local government sector. So we argued that when they're worried about the debt situation, they're going to follow up in another way. I'm not going to ask Erna Solberg to advance in what way she'll follow up, just express the joy that Right now shares our turmoil in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e483	We have agreed on the action plan for better care for the elderly, and we are, of course, also concerned about the increase in debt in municipalities. We're particularly concerned about one thing, and that's the huge imbalance we've gotten in terms of the actual level of activity and revenue, that is, not just a debt increase based on investment. It would be natural when we have the care package, we have the psychiatry campaign, and we have Reform 97, that is, a series of bets that have a lot of building mass attached to them. Thus, the investment debt will increase, and I know that in many municipalities there are high treatment requirements related to sewage emissions, which also contribute to an overall increase in the debt burden in the municipal sector. What I'm actually most concerned about is that you seem to have a level of activity in terms of operations that is higher than your income. In terms of debt cancellation, I would like to say straight away that I will never recommend the Right to go into a debt restructuring package for the municipalities, simply because the municipalities also have some equity, because some municipalities already have debt. My hometown, Bergen, for example. Reorganized quite a lot of debt, half of it, a few years ago by selling Bergen Lysverker to Bergen municipal power company. So they've put a ceiling on their debt to do something. Other municipalities also have the potential to do something on the owner's side to reduce their debt. If we had a really objective income system, I would therefore think it would be better to increase the allocations through that system if you were to do it first. However, we have also said that one of the most important things we can do to improve the municipal economy is to ensure that the municipalities lower costs, so that as a country we also get lower costs – that we get more of the money that the municipalities actually have at their disposal. So we get a larger service offer, and we get that by not increasing the fees, not increasing the price increase, and by not laying the groundwork for high wages, as the majority does through their budget line. They start the spiral every year, and then the money you get in the municipal sector will be less.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e492	First, I want to pay tribute to the right for their commitment to asylum seekers, and especially to the lonely, minor asylum seekers. I fully agree with what was said here. But I have two questions for the Right, and one goes into business. The right is very concerned with the business environment, and an important part of it in Norway is the differentiated employer’s fee, which is large and heavy. It means a lot to both businesses and districts. There has been a very high level of commitment for the 14 municipalities that have changed the employer zone, a very high level of commitment. SV has shared it, but we have thought that it may have been a bit out of the ordinary, when one knows that the whole system of the rest of the regional policy instrument may be in decline as early as 2003. We are very surprised that the Right, which is concerned about what kind of fees business is going to pay, is not more concerned with knowing how it is actually going to go with this charge in the future, and that the Government is making a good arrangement, so that you can ensure good framework conditions for the businesses in the districts in the future. I could therefore like to ask Erna Solberg why they do not share SV's concern about this. Then there's another thing where SV and Right have been very much in line, and that's when it comes to improving the pay and working conditions of teachers. But there are a lot of groups in the public sector that need pay and working conditions that make it possible to recruit and keep people. That is why SV in this year's position has made a proposal that we want a similar recruitment message for the municipal sector, i.e. a cooperation where the state and the municipalities make a recruitment message to ensure that we actually manage the reforms we agree on. I could imagine inviting the Right to be a co-player in this case too, because the recruitment message for teachers was successful, because here you saw that it was a method to do it on to get there. Could the Right also consider this with regard to the other important positions in the local government sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e503	It's true that if we say you have to give priority to an area, that means you give priority to this area. So we were giving priority to recruiting teachers. Then we are concerned with labour supply in the Norwegian labour market in general. We do not believe that it is a particular state responsibility to be involved in accessing municipal labour, but we are concerned with accessing the labour market, so that the work to be done in the public sector and in the labour force of the private sector is done in order to maintain and further develop the enterprises that are. In this way, we have not felt the need to make any specific notice for the municipal sector, but we have a great deal of commitment to doing something about access to labour in general. We have done so through several Document Nos. 8 proposals, inter alia: on labour immigration and on other types of labour market measures. In the financial situation, we have called for a number of other measures, including: agree with what the Workers' Party believes, and which I believe SV also believes, namely what goes on with pay subsidies. The scheme must be used to make a better transition from being on social security to getting back to work. With regard to the issue of the ESA decision on a differentiated employer’s fee, we expect the Government – without instructions from us – to address the issue of the employer’s fee in the district policy communication that comes to spring. And it's alerted. We do not need to specifically impose on them an instruction on precisely the differentiated employer fee, but the reason why we have a special commitment to the 14 municipalities is that we believe that the central government has done a very poor job, especially in relation to some of them, in terms of lighting the transport costs. It's okay that once you've got a bridge, that means that the transport costs are reduced. But they don't get any less until the bridge is paid down, and it was one of the considerations that the central government didn't take with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e512	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e515	That's $1,250 million. kr more to the municipalities as a result of the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The government must provide the Stortinget with a review and discussion of the local government's debt situation. The center party is very satisfied with both of these points of agreement. We're also happy that we got a very unsolvable cut – the 160 million. NOK until the stands that the Government had proposed to remove are in place again. We are not satisfied that the loss compensation, the so-called loss compensation for the Rattsø-taparanes, will be reduced from 2002 to 2 billion kroner in income. It consists of 210 municipalities and has a special impact on some of the smallest and most widely used municipalities. $1,250 million. kr – the amount is the same as the funds the municipalities have to allocate next year to child and survivor pensions. When local people choose to use their own resources for this assignment, they can avoid hard cuts. A school may pass, a support contact facility may continue, a volunteer centre may continue. Cuts can be avoided in home and night shifts, in prevention and repair measures before the drug field. The Labour Party shall submit its draft budget to the Government as ‘the greatest pledge of the times’. Yes, it is a good boost in crowns compared to last year – no doubt about it. When KS initially asked for an additional 2 billion kroner to keep the current operating level up to 550 million. kr more in the one-off allowance for pensions and also showed that the municipalities did not cover running expenditure on pensions for several hundred million kroner, unfortunately the fasitium is still a reduction in the service provision. The center part would like to have contributed to the extra funds, but is happy for the $1,250 million. kr. Let me also remind you that more resources for psychiatry, for training institutions, for the drug field, for the church, for the host municipalities of PU clients, for local cultural buildings, for transportation, for compensation for employers' fees and, in fact, for voluntary organisations, make the total increase. The central party puts the debt situation in the municipalities on the agenda in spring. The consultation arrangements between the Government and KS, initiated by the central government, showed a common understanding of a total debt of DKK 95 billion. When the net debt is SEK 67 billion and the basic school reform and the elderly bet is refunded with a total of between NOK 12 and 13 billion, there is really reason to look at this question. Elder effort is in its fourth year in 2001. It is well known that the municipalities that follow the action plan for the care of the elderly have either had to raise additional loans or have had to reduce other provisions to obtain an asset, which is often higher than expected: a supplement of NOK 740,000 per year. care facilities, NOK 830 000 for a health care centre — later it showed that the costs for many municipalities are up to a double. The Technical Calculation Committee for Municipal and Municipal Economy, in October 2000, states the following: ‘There is a more worrying trend that operating performance is significantly impaired, and in particular that, overall, the county authorities had negative net operating performance in 1999. Operating profit or loss is not affected by the current investment activity, but the current high level of investment and debt generation may make it difficult to significantly improve net operating surplus over the years to come. This is because the initial investment will require increased operating costs and because the higher cost level than foreseen does not mean that the increased cost of interest and repayment will not be fully compensated.» The surest and fairest way to inject funds is through increased free revenues. The centre party takes joint responsibility for the situation that has now arisen in Kommune-Noreg. We took note of the fact that there was a lack of political plurality regarding the situation and worked on other options. We asked KS for advice on a fair model – a debt cancellation should not be a premium on anyone else. KS recommends distribution through the income system criteria. One can achieve desired objectivity, debt can be paid down where needed. Pre-investment municipalities may set aside funds and use them as an asset in future investments. The central party believes that a partial debt cancellation can be compared to the cancellation of debt that the Storting, on a proposal from the Government, caused in the spring of the Gardermoban. The government argued that there could not be an increase in the pressure in the economy. We think the same can be said when it relates to the local government sector: the alternative is the reduction of activity in a very large number of municipalities. The Ministry of Finance has done a calculation when it relates to the distribution of a one-off set-off on liabilities corresponding to two Gardermobane excesses. There can be no doubt that such a provision will cause too many individuals to suffer in our country. The answer is that while Rogaland County will be able to set of 245 million. kr, is the number e.g. for Ringsake 86 million. NOK 42 million for Nittedal. kr, for Dönna – which the Committee has visited – 6 million. kr and for Arendal – which the Committee has also visited – 105 million. kr. We are pleased that the whole committee is now expressing concern for the debt situation and looks forward to the Government's review of the spring. A number of other challenges in this setting are directly related to the financial situation of municipalities. When so many minors remain in the reception of asylum, it is likely to have to do with just a concern for new economic obligations, which is unacceptable. During its examination of the Committee, proposals to make more use of the fosterheim system have been discussed. The Council of State shall know that it has the support of the Centre Party to take new initiatives there. Let me also remind you of the importance of a qualification allowance for newly arrived immigrants and also of a new supplementary benefit as an alternative to social assistance for people who do not have full social security rights. When so few municipalities commit themselves to increasing housing and the particular supply of housing for the most disadvantaged, it is also likely to have to do with just municipal property. Otherwise let me express the expectation in relation to the review that the government is now going to have of Aetat. There is a need for stronger cooperation between Aetate and other activities; there is a need for simplification, and there is a need for a pooling of tasks so that more workers can benefit from the labour reserve that many of them have. The centre will ensure good growth conditions for children and young people. Good social networks have a lot to say for both the young and the elderly. Society must therefore be organised on the basis of the community as the basic unit of both the community and the city. In this way, people will be able to take care of each other and take care of each other more easily. We are frustrated that the Government does not follow up on the district and regional initiative of the central government. We know that through local food funds and other strengthening, new jobs were created and thus new optimism in many smaller communities. We say rental that the Labour Party does not have the same view when it comes to this interaction, the distribution of jobs that are needed to ensure a good growth environment both in the city and in the countryside. It is alarming that they are actually going so far as to reduce regional and regional measures to find resources for IT fornebu. Many now seem to take our welfare arrangements as something of course. I'm afraid they're not. An ever-increasing call for tax relief and privatisation of public care services can undermine welfare schemes built up over a long period of time. The result may be poorer services and greater insecurity for groups that do not have a private economy for the purchase of services. Municipalities and county councils are responsible for the basic daily supply of most people. It is therefore the view of the Centre that they must also be secured by the necessary means in the future. It is important to work towards greater consistency than today between tasks and means. Finally, the centre party is the co-rapporteur for the proposal No. 2, 4, 6 and 7, which I'm now taking up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e554	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e559	In the setting, there is a note from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, where reference is made to the fact that these parties want to grant additional 55 million. SEK for housing grants on the current year’s budget – despite the fact that there was still money left that was unused in the post. In the 2001 budget, the government increased the housing grant by 152 million. kr. That's an increase of 30 pst. The amount that now remains after the center agreement is the exact same amount. Then my question becomes to the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa: can I draw the conclusion that the representative is more satisfied with the government's budget for 2001 than she was with the government's Bondevik proposal for the current year's budget, because that was the current year's budget she wanted to add 55 million. Do you really want to delete this item? So to the local economy: the representative has put a lot of emphasis on municipalities having a lot of debt in his contribution. We know that part of the deal is that we're going to look at this debt situation in the context of the municipal economic proposition of spring. But it's a little strange that that concern has become so big now after the party left the government building, because it's a fact that the debt also increased while the government Bondevik sat by the rudder. In Nord-Trøndelag we have even been aware of this for so long that the county has produced a separate report. I ask you, wasn't the Minister of State from the Central Party aware of the developments? And was that the reason why the government Bondevik did not propose measures? Or was it that it was only when the consultation arrangements with the KS were put in place that one became aware of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e568	The center party believes that there is a force needed to ensure more housing-free shelters on a more permanent basis than today. As Minister of Social Affairs, I had contact with several organisations, including The Salvation Army, as with, for example, The municipality of Oslo took a roof when it was winter, to secure temporary dwellings. A number of other advances were also made towards the municipalities, and the most important thing was the cooperation that is now established, as a result of the Equalization Notice, between the Government and the four-five largest municipalities – it follows Sylvia Brustad now. We're still worried because the municipalities don't take their share of responsibility here. We think it might have, among other things. with the municipal property to do. It was a fact when we were going to check at the end of the year, that there were funds left. It was also a fact that there were enough plans and measures, not least with the voluntary organisations, which, if the Labour Party had been involved, could have secured more permanent housing already in a few short weeks now. When it applies to the local government sector, I understand that it is painful for the Labour Party to focus on it now. We take responsibility for the past. It is clear from the documents that the debt situation is more serious than that of Enoxsen who produced it. Now we are concerned about the future, and we hope that the Labour Party will help improve the financial situation for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e577	Instead, I was told from the Christian People's Party that they are positive for simplification and conversion. I hope there's no big split in the center of that vision. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have a common note in the vote stating that the Planning and Building Act should be simplified with regulations. Today's planning and building law, with regulations, represents a bureaucracy and a form that is actually unparalleled. Municipalities charge high fees for processing according to the law, and there are great demands on those who are going to do the jobs. The result is that many today avoid the whole law in some areas. Thus, the law works contrary to what was intended to improve the quality of the construction work through increased requirements for the contractor. The new Law on Planning and Building provides absolutely no better guarantee for increased quality of the work done, but it is therefore cost-effective and demanding both for the municipality, responsible and action-holder. It might cost you a house of $100,000 -- that's the fact. As the situation is, there is a clear need for simplification of this comprehensive legislation in carrying out construction work. And then I'd like to ask: why doesn't the Senterpartiet want to be involved in a remark that the law on planning and building should be simplified? So, in the Central Party, do you not see any problems at all with this law that has produced a public bureaucracy and a form field almost unparalleled? It might be interesting to hear the views of the Center Party on exactly what I mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e587	Let me first calm the Progress Party with regard to the Center Party's view of simplification and conversion. We were part of the government that started the project ‘Simplifying Norway’, which consisted of over a hundred subprojects. I am pleased to note that many of them are being followed up, and that the current government is following them up. Then there was a person in the Senate in Rome named Cato d.e. He concluded all his contributions by saying, 'Otherwise, I believe that Carthage should be destroyed'. At this point I actually experience the comment about the planning and building law in much the same way. We take it as a self-evident thing that in connection with the work that has been done, you will come up with proposals for simplification. But we don't need to say in advance anything we think is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e594	SV is also very concerned about the debt situation in municipalities. One of its starting points is that reforms are underfunded, i.e. that there is actually not enough financial resources to implement what is to be done. One of the issues still at issue is the implementation of Reform 97. There is a conflict between some municipalities and the department if you have actually covered all the expenses, and there is a proposal in the vote today from the Progress Party, Right and SV on this. I am a little surprised why the Central Party is not involved in this proposal, because this is at the heart of the problem, namely why such imbalances and debt situations arise. I could imagine getting the Central Party's explanation of why they don't agree with it. And then I could also imagine challenging the Center Party. I've been through the Center Party's new program, and I feel like there's a lot of similarities between SV and the Center Party. SV also wants a modern and solidarity-based welfare state, more equitable distribution both nationally and internationally, and we want a public and forward-looking environmental policy. All of this therefore requires increased political governance, a political governance that actually has the power and the majority to implement the policies that are under way. Then I'm a little surprised that the Center Party, which has such strong opinions in these areas, is focusing on a strategy where they're still committed to a center option that could be equally promising to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party in the next majority period that they are now. It was precisely during this period, when the representative Meltveit Kleppa was up here and said instead, that the imbalance in the municipal sector was getting worse. Was it because the central government wanted it, or was it because you had to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party that it did? Is that why it was not possible to achieve a proper reversal of environmental policy? If you are passionate about these things, how can you put yourself on such a risky strategy and risk having to cooperate with the enemy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e603	Here were two questions. Let me first confirm what is involved in the under-funding of the basic school reform. The reason why the Central Party is not involved in this comment is that we have been informed that the reform should now be financed as far as it can be made from conventional instruments. Now what's left is individual municipalities and actually a clarification in court. And then I got a question about the longer lines. I have to pink Karin Andersen, who at this point has come further than me: she has already read the Central Party's draft for a new programming program. That's not how far I've come. I understand that I have to do it quite quickly, and I will have better time for that now when the budgetary process is over. I don't see the great dangers that Karin Andersen here paints on the wall in relation to still being stuck at the center. Based on the experience gained by the Center Party so far with this option, a government has been set up, run for two years and five months and helped many people want this government again, I want the Center Party, both in terms of policy and in terms of the country, to stick to the center option.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e617	That's when the line change was over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e620	I want to address the remaining suggestions that SV has alone or together with others. When I turned on the radio this morning early, I was told that we had received NOK 12 billion more in tax a wait here in the country. It's mainly because Norwegian companies are doing well, and because we're doing a lot more. So the question is not whether we're going to spend a lot of money, the question is what we're going to spend the money for, because we're actually spending a lot of money. The choice is whether we should have modern schools, kindergartens for everyone and cheap homes for those with bad advice, or whether we should spend the money for more private consumption. Then we get to ask ourselves the question of what's most important. For SV, it is not difficult to answer. There is no need in Norwegian municipalities, but compared to the wealth of the majority in private, the municipal standard becomes different in many places – and the physical maturity is great. People have a lot of trouble realizing that it may be necessary to have it so boisterous in schools and hospitals when we have such good advice. Most people also react very strongly when they hear that social clients have to live at 30–50 kroner a day in many places. That's actually the reality, and that's where many of the 70,000 poor kids exist. This is one of the explanations that it is that kids in shame lie to themselves some excuse to not ask their parents for money for school trips, while we others have money, more money than we ever had before. The problem is not that we are poor, but the richer we get, the more greedy we become on behalf of those who are poor, and it is those who suffer from poor local economy, in the absence of cheap housing and opportunities to get help to obtain education and work. Norway is rocky, so municipal poverty becomes glaring, visible and incomprehensible. People don't accept their kids going to a late school without modern tools and education. If we don't realize that school is future and that's why it's important, then parents understand it. They don't understand that the school should be behind low petrol prices in the range of good purposes. Then parents will choose private schools. They are not waiting for public advice, they can afford it themselves, but only for their own. They don't understand, for example. must be thrown like a tiger to get home health care to the grandmother who does not get out of bed by her own help, or to get something as simple as a scooter when you are old, dizzy and shivering. This is discussed in serious terms in Norwegian homes and in Norwegian local government because we are allegedly unable to afford it. It's totally incomprehensible. This is also not about moving small heads here and there, or whether or not we should put off competition. This is about setting clear quality and quantity requirements, and putting what is most important first. In the case of dwellings, SV has been very concerned about it for a long time, because it is unacceptable that the situation on the housing market is as it is. In the vote, we are promoting a proposal that goes beyond what we have proposed before, and it is about establishing a state housing investment company. We now believe that this is necessary because it is too slow. Yes, so slowly it goes that there is actually money on these items that is not being used, even though the distress is great. Then we believe that the state must participate as a joint owner and play a concrete role in housing projects, together with municipalities, housing laws or non-profit foundations in order to get these started, because this is very important. It can't wait, because people have just nowhere to live, and many are in danger of losing their homes. It can't be like that. SV has also proposed that a recruitment message be drawn up for the municipal sector. The recruitment message for teachers was a success. Now the state and the municipalities must together make a similar message for other employees, because it is filled with exciting, well-paid and less vulnerable jobs elsewhere. Kosmo State Council has told us to convert. Yeah, we're going to convert, but to what? There must be career paths for people, so that they do not have to leave school, away from kindergarten or away from the patient in order to advance in pay. We need to create thoughtful systems that will enable us to achieve our goals. In SAS and the restaurant industry, nurses and child-responsive workers are making it, and there will be more if we don't catch up quickly and make a plan. Then SV has submitted proposals for an employment package to help get more people working. Aetat now has to change its policy. They need to focus more on the quality of their work, so that they don't send people into insecure, insecure jobs that just end up with new personal defeats, and that make people completely lose their courage. I will come back to it in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e637	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e642	SVs Karin Andersen has shown great impatience in relation to housing investment, in my opinion so much impatience that it almost borders on the unrealistic. I can then refer to the proposal to grant 55 million. kr more on the current year's budget. Suffering if there is money left unused, as the representative criticises, she will now in addition allocate 55 million. kr more, and then it becomes something of a question for me how in the world the representative Karin Andersen has intended to spend that money in a month so that it makes sense to use it. A little flattered to say, but sometimes it almost seems to me that it was the money you were supposed to build with, and that it does not depend on which projects are ready for realization, but fails to finance. In a row during the financial debate, Kristin Halvorsen criticized the reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the Centre because there was 11 pst. dividend dividends and not 14 pst. Is the representative of Karin Andersen in agreement with the 14 pst. is a good grip, while 11 pst. Is an immaterial grip? In the general notes SV have in the setting, it's almost just about money and want a lot more money. My question is: doesn't SV see that there can be action in terms of renewal in the municipal sector, which means that we can actually save money? And then I want to refer to a good municipality, Eidskog in Hedmark, which, in my opinion, and also someone else's opinion, has done a good job of doing something about this. So a little bit relative to small municipalities. SV is a strong defender of small municipalities. But does SV not see that some municipalities are actually getting so small that there is not a good enough offer for the inhabitants, among other things. in relation to their ability to employ qualified people in their positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e653	The last thing I'm going to do is I'm going to answer quickly. I don't know where Aud Gaundal has it from that SV is against municipalities joining if they want to. We're not at all. So we're impatient and unrealistic. No, it's not unrealistic at all to want to give more money. There are clear actors who will help both the Government and the municipalities to get started, and they can do so in the day. The proposal was promoted early in the autumn, but it has been chosen to spend so long on it because it is not seen to be so important – it was not urgent, no, unfortunately. I am sorry that it has taken a long time, but it is clear to actors, and I am absolutely sure that if one had engaged in direct dialogue with the actors mentioned, for example. HERO, the Salvation Army, and the Church's City Mission, had found solutions that could have helped people better than today, and that's what it's all about. So you're so incredibly slow to deal with these problems that concern those who lack the most elementary, that's a home to live in. In terms of the renewal of the public sector: Well, I know the municipality of Eidskog, because it is my municipality of residence, and the person who has carried out parts of the conversion there was actually the head of Hedmark SV before me. So for SV, it's not an unknown matter that we want to convert and renew in the public sector, but we don't think it should be done by the cold suffocation method – that you should be so poor that you don't see your poor advice, then you have to put something down, and then we think it's going well. If we want quality, it costs. We have to set quality standards, and then we have to say that we are willing to fund them and not systematically underfinance the things we are asking for all the time. There has to be a trust relationship between us here on the Stortinget and the municipalities in order for this to work, because this is difficult in many municipalities when, for example, they do. shall deal with the issue of whether or not to give old people a scooter, and may wonder whether they have money for it. So to the question of 11 pst. is nothing and 14 pst. is heavenly. Of course, 11 is better than 14. Our criticism was that the Workers' Party gave away its important symbolic things and did not stand firm on the matters that were most important. It was our main criticism of the Workers' Party, because in terms of fair distribution, the Workers' Party is a little bit better than the Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e664	SV is a party that often talks about public solutions, about state, municipality, state and bureaucracy. More rarely from that edge we hear talk about the individual. In my opinion, the biggest challenge of the Municipality of Norway is to be just for the inhabitants and the small individual. I am concerned about the population and the status of the individual in a situation where they have to contact the municipality and ask for services. And on that occasion, I hope SV agrees that the old-fashioned term ‘client’ should not be used against people who are in contact with public services. The term we often use today is ‘user’, in terms of the designation of a person using municipal services. However, one of the most modern concepts is ‘customer’ when referring to a person as a consumer of municipal services. While this client concept is stigmatizing and, to the extent of a burdensome concept, the user concept is of course somewhat better. In my opinion, however, it is only when we use the customer concept that the legal status is described. How does SV view the status of citizens in relation to the use of municipal services? Are they clients, are they users, or are those customers who should have clear rights that are specifically regulated as much as possible and enshrined in the law? And are statutory rights to municipal services important for the SV, or is it such that local policy priorities are better suited to ensure an equivalent offer from the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e673	If you get into SV's policy, you'll see that it has a very strong individual focus. We have always been concerned with individual human rights, individual rights and the rule of law. That's where SV held the tab a very high one. In practical policy, we also have daily, for example. in school policy, being concerned that we need to have such a good school that it takes into account each student and each individual, and provides an appropriate education. Similarly, we want it in labour market policy. We want a liberal labour market policy that can adapt actions and help to each one. We also believe that it should be in immigration policy. We cannot treat people as a group, or as if they are all quite alike, as I see the Progress Party often takes up the issue at least in terms of immigrants – then just like everyone is to be put in a bag and get one's stamp. No, on the contrary, it's all about seeing each individual human being and giving each human being the opportunity and power to do the best he can. That is what the welfare state is all about. A good welfare state can be a dance floor that is so that each of us can choose the dance we want to dance, but then it must actually be good. If not, there'll be someone who doesn't have room and this outside, or someone who stumbles because it's not even and well enough. So that's really important to us. We as individuals are different, and in order for the welfare state to be good, we must therefore add up to a system that is such that it actually gives everyone equal opportunities. That's what this whole argument is about. Then there will be little time for the question of the terms client, user and customer, but SV is concerned with the user concept. The customer concept removes solidarity throughout the system, and that is the solidarity we are concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e685	First an explanation: I can't have it undisputed when Karin Andersen presents it as if the Christian People's Party and the Left stop the Center Party from allowing the municipalities funds. This can be done, for example. from the 2000 budget proposal that a debt of DKK 3,4 billion, which was subsequently considered, as a result of both the consultation arrangements and other circumstances, actually amounted to DKK 10 billion. So Karin Andersen and SV's situation. Kristin Halvorsen recently had an outburst in the Evening Post under the heading «Difficult in SV». I thought that the post to Karin Andersen and her reply rounds here today might help to underline something of the same strain. I'm actually surprised that she here makes the central government as a government that didn't take the initiative in environmental policy. After all, it was the central government that stood firm in relation to a large-scale majority on a very decisive test. It was the central government that put forward the Equalization message, a very important initiative in distribution issues, and the central government also strengthened our international solidarity. I had actually expected that Karin Andersen was also pleased that the centre of this budget agreement has drawn the Workers' Party further towards matters that SV is also concerned about when it applies both to distribution and to the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e692	It is true that the central government took good initiatives in environmental policy. The problem is, you don't get through. During this big period, there is a majority in this room for a better environmental policy that you don't choose to use, and it's a majority for a better distribution policy, if you want to use it. The question is whether to continue on such a risky strategy, where one can risk resolving not only the budget but also all the individual issues of the Progress Party and the Right, which governs in a completely different direction from what the Center Party now says they want to go. The question to be asked in the future is: do you want to secure a majority to ensure that these matters are managed, or is the best way out? SV doesn't believe that slums are a good method, for all of these areas that we're engaged in, require a secure majority that can be firm, and that can also be tied up in those issues where you can have a slightly different opinion. Then there is a question of why SV is not cheering more for the agreement. With regard to the local economy, some areas have improved, including: it concerns the settlement of pensions. What we have been critical of is that we have not chosen to press the Workers' Party for a better environmental policy, and then we have chosen to press the Workers' Party where the Workers' Party has had a better distribution policy than the Centre has. For example, tax policies have been pushed into a worse distribution profile. Rather, it has wanted to reduce the food tax, but it is very doubtful whether it will benefit consumers. And then the government has been pressured to reduce the tax on dividends. [[The President clubs.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e703	Time's up. The cord shift is also over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e708	The left is satisfied that, through the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties, the municipalities have added 1 250 million. kr. All of us who have a past in local politics know that it comes well into a municipal everyday life where the clamp is still turned on, and the gap between expectations and economic gambling grows for every day that goes. One of the reasons for the gap is that too many in this room too often create expectations that it is up to our colleagues in the municipalities to meet, without the resources being included at the same time. Kommune-Norge would have been better off today if Stortinget had more often held his fingers off the barrel and not assumed responsibility which should of course be local. I think it is positive that the Workers' Party is now apparently concerned with strengthening local self-government and reducing state detail management. It is touching how much beautiful is said about the local self-government of the working party team this fall. The question is whether this new self-governing façade does not hide the same quackles of the construction works as before. I'm excited about the further development. The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research recently presented a comprehensive study of the Stortinget as a local political actor, which should be mandatory for both politicians, journalists and state bureaucrats. The conclusion of that study is as follows: There has been an increasing trend, not least in the last ten years, for the Storting to regulate the details of municipal activities. Bit by bit are the municipal services subject to state control, and bit by bit is the freedom of action reduced by state laws, regulations and designation. This has led to an increase in forms fields, an increase in the need for reporting to different agencies, including the state as an inspector, and has resulted in the administration of municipalities spending an incredible amount of time filling out forms and complying with reporting systems. Trust in municipal autonomy seems to have been replaced by distrust. And who has been the tone of this development? Yeah, it's just the Working Party. The NIBR study states that the representatives of the Workers' Party only very little emphasise local self-government as a value in themselves, and that the Workers' Party much more often refers to the consideration of national equality and problems related to local inequalities than to the desire for real local government and warnings that local democracy is being undermined. The study also shows that in this area is the Workers' Party and the Left Counter-Police. The left stands out as the clearly most consistent defender of local self-government. For one thing, these little symbolic things that the Workers' Party is constantly struggling with, about what great progress it is when, with bragging and bram, one removes earmarks for smooth driving, bookbuses and the culture boat «Innvik». Something quite different is the willingness to do the big structural grips that really matter: a freer municipal tax system, to end the centralist health and old age plans that outperform local concerns, and to spread local choices so that national politicians do not overshadow local issues. A minimum requirement if the Labour Party is serious about its fine words should be that they support the Left's proposal to legislate on local self-government, as both Sweden, Denmark and Finland have done for the longest time. There would be a clear signal that the local level has a distinct value in a democratic society beyond being an appropriate initiator of national decisions. The last year's debate on county council and the ownership of hospitals is a typical example of the Workers' Party's lack of interest in local self-government. The left agrees that reforms are needed at the regional level, but I totally disagree with the Labour Party in its approach angle, which in short text seems to be centralizing the ownership of hospitals, and then let it scour the rest of the regional tasks. A bit of bit-policy that no one has earned, least of all the inhabitants. According to the head of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, the future of the County Municipality is addressed to the Bergen Official Journal on 22 August, a «technical question». That's a strange statement. The left has a clear premise that reforms should provide more, not less popular governance of regional tasks. It's for the Left a value choice, not a technical question. Finally, the big question is whether the county office should not be built down in favour of the regional population-led level.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e734	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e737	What I want to ask the representative, Kongshaug, about what he said about local taxes. I would like to hear how the Left intends to implement it, and how we are going to get the common good that society requires today. I would like to know how much tax you have to pay on the left's model in small municipalities away in the West. Then I would also like to hear why the Left did not manage to do anything with these 6,000 laws and regulations when they were in government and had a government council that was president of the Left. Now that we're trying to modernise the public sector and place great emphasis on local self-government, Left says we don't. But that's exactly what we're doing. I would like to hear about how the tax is being removed in Bergen with the model that you pick up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e746	There have been different public spending on this issue. I can refer to the distribution of a cross-politically complex sample to look at the future of the county council, among others. in relation to the county and the regional division of functions. There was a central theme – and that was the cross-political agreement – that within certain borders municipalities should have the opportunity to increase the taxpayer, and the county municipalities should also have it within certain limits. If there were special tasks in a municipality that the residents would like to have done, it was going to go out to the voters and say that it is a task that is so important to our municipality that we have to do something with it. This could then be a choice. Are you willing to join in raising the taxpayer in order to get that done? It would be a real elected self-government. That's not how it works today. This is also about trust in local politicians. I don't think it would have been that in some municipalities, as the representative suggested in his question, the municipal taxpayer would have set up so much that this went beyond all borders. In my opinion, with confidence in local politicians, this could have worked in an excellent way within certain limits set by the state. As regards the reporting system and the form field, it is clear that it is a goal for everyone to be reduced. But it is the designation of government, the state designation, that leads to the form field. And before we do anything about the designation, we don't limit the form field and the reporting system. So here it's important to grab hold of the right end from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e755	I hope it is then a cross of ideas for the representative of Kongshaug that he voted last week for a municipal arrangement that increased the designation of the people in relation to the scheme put forward by the Government, which was a follow-up to what had been treated in connection with the municipal economic proposition. In fact, he has also twice voted against proposals to start work on simplifying, before the central government itself was willing to start a simplification work with the municipalities. So it took a year from the Right to promote the proposal and got a majority in the Storting, until the central government was willing to start a job, and admitted that there was a need for simplification with regard to the law and regulation of the municipalities. But that's really not what I was going to do. I was going to take a line on the question of free taxpayers and the question of having a separate section on municipal autonomy into the Constitution. I'm very much in favour of increased municipal autonomy, but there are some problematic aspects of both of these conditions. First of all, no one has yet been able to define for me, if you're going to have a paragraph on the so-called municipal autonomy into the Constitution, what that constitutional paragraph is really going to mean, and what constitutional change it will mean. Does this mean that we are becoming more federalist? So, what real substance, other than being a pendulum, does it have to have? The second part is the fact that we have a pretty detailed transmission system for the municipalities. If we introduce free taxpayers, even if it's within a certain limit, we have the small problem that those who can most easily reduce the tax are those who have 80 pst. of their income in the form of transfers from the rest of the country. Those who can most easily do something positive to reduce the tax are those who have most of their income directly from tax. We have a different income system at the bottom, which makes it more difficult to introduce free taxpayers and say that it becomes a purely local priority. In addition, we have one tax system that is a purely local priority, namely property tax, but the centre parties and the Workers' Party will not take into account that there should be municipal autonomy in this regard, because they will remove other transfers if no property tax is imposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e768	The difference between the Left and the Right in this period is that the Left has been in position and has had the opportunity to promote its proposals there, and so have we in terms of simplification. In the case of individual proposals promoted in this Chamber, about a vote for or against them, it is perhaps of secondary importance when one is in government and has the opportunity to promote what one really wants in that context. As for the taxpayer and the size of it, I was not talking about a free taxpayer, but about a freer taxpayer. And in the line and the question there, it becomes clear that we here in this room believe that earmarking and governance from here leads to similarities around Norway's country. However, there are several reports that suggest that precisely the designation and detailed management from it leads to major inequalities around the municipalities. This is because municipalities initially have different assumptions regarding the financing of equity. It is those municipalities that have the best finances, which can most easily participate in the different schemes and make the best use of the designated schemes that exist. So it's not like we often think ear tagging from here leads to greater similarities. In fact, it often leads to major inequalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e775	Of course, for municipalities it is important to create jobs, to create a business base. The left, at least for some time, tried to present itself as the leading spokesperson of industry and small and medium-sized enterprises. Now it is probably not that much left of it, but looks at the business conditions in Norwegian districts in particular, with the large distance charges that are there – i.e. transport costs for fuel and other transport equipment – there is a major obstacle to the development of the districts in Norway that there is so much transport costs in terms of obtaining goods and in bringing people back and forth to work, commuting, so that they can do their job. I would like to hear from the Left, which is an environmental party in this context, and which says that we must have the highest possible tax on petrol and diesel, on everything that pollutes, how taxes on fuel, i.e. taxes at a distance, can harmonize with the objective of active, good district municipalities to live in, which can provide a business and jobs that provide a good basis for the districts, when these businesses are hampered by large transport costs? Isn't it a logical flaw here that the Left should have a significant problem explaining people living in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e782	I want to point out that the left is still concerned with the small businesses and innovation around, it's both in District Norway and other places. We are also aware that a well-functioning business is precisely the basis of the welfare society that we have. So over to transport costs. I agree with the representative Torbjørn Andersen that transport costs are a competitive disadvantage the further from the market, and the districts are often at a certain distance from the market – that is in the meaning of the word. With regard to the concrete agreement in the state budget, it was after a push from the left that we had an amount of 8 million. kr, such as would reduce ferry tariffs. Had left got what we wanted, it could have led to a significant reduction in transport costs, which we wanted to give priority to. We did not fully implement this, but it made an impact on a reduction in fares in terms of ferry costs. So the question of fuel and high charges. It is not the case that the left will have the highest possible fees, as was said. But I think there's too much focus on the gas price for the time being, even when you see it in relation to the revenue that each of us has, compared to many other unsolved and more valuable tasks that we should be looking at in society. Otherwise, in a special note on 17 December 1998, the Progress Party opposed joining the petrol freight balancing system and compared a petrol freight balancing system with the same as subsidising the ‘shoot and tie’ for those living in key areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e796	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e799	A majority of the municipal committee emphasises the position we are discussing here today, the positive fact that Norway has become a multicultural society. The fact that we have become a multicultural society demands mutual tolerance and respect. This is very positive and a good sign to achieve the goal of a better society for all. Good refugee and asylum policies are for the Workers' Party about solidarity and respect for international human rights, and budgeting is a step in the right direction. The majority of the Committee is concerned about and points in particular to the major problems of immigrants and refugees in the labour market. Their competence is not valued and used. It is important that refugees who come to Norway get to work as quickly as possible. In view of the great need we have for labour, it is a paradox that working life does not value the competence of immigrants in fact. We can no longer accept that the unemployment rate is so high among immigrants, and now everyone has to think again. Strengthening individual competence and avoiding inaction and isolation are good integration policies and good employment policies. Work shall pay off, and language training, work training and employment services are all important components here. This is also important in order to achieve the objective of staying at reception must be as short as possible. We are now increasing the integration grant to municipalities receiving refugees, by over 20 p.m., to NOK 365 000 per year. person. This I expect will contribute to faster and better settlement of refugees. I am pleased that the Government now announces a big message that means that refugees will have increased influence over where they will live. One problem we see is that our new countrymen have problems in the housing market, and here there are many prejudices going on. We politicians have an important job to do when it comes to fighting these. The Committee believes that in recent years the asylum and refugee policy in Norway has been characterised by a long stay in reception for asylum seekers and refugees. This is mainly due to the fact that the processing of asylum applications takes longer than foreseen and that it has taken disproportionately long time to have refugees settled in the municipalities. To this end, the Committee will give priority to measures to reduce the duration of proceedings. The majority support the Government's proposal to contribute to a faster settlement. We cannot accept that stays in reception facilities are particularly longer than six months after a residence or work permit has been granted. The need for a rapid settlement concerns children in particular, and I am pleased that there are proposals in the budget to contribute to the faster integration of children. It is very positive that the integration grant to municipalities has increased by over 20 pst. This will mean that they will be able to settle refugees faster and better. At the same time, I would like to point out that in 1999 there were 6,700 refugees living in the municipalities, which is the largest number since 1994. However, I would point out that about 1,500 more refugees should have been resident in the municipalities in 1999. The majority are concerned that, in 2000, municipalities do not seem to have the 10,000 refugees who are the target either. I otherwise welcome the big message about asylum and immigration policy, which the Government will present in December. It will address all important problems of refugee and asylum policy in Norway. Then Stortinget will again have the opportunity to focus on asylum and refugee policy. I expect the Government in the notified notification to address the problems related to work, residence, language training and single minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e818	However, at the risk of extending the financial debate unnecessarily, I would like to remind myself that the Norwegian people will once again be charged even more unnecessary taxes and charges. From next year, the Norwegian people will be served one of the most extensive tax increases of time, with increased VAT, increased housing tax, increased electricity tax, increased dividend tax, increased passport fee, reduced depreciation opportunities for business and 10 pst. cyclical taxes on industrial buildings, which thus affect the construction industry and the districts quite unfairly. Budgetary negotiations between the Labour Party and the Centre have become too many, at least outside, as a race between the parties involved in the budgetary agreement on who could propose to increase taxes and charges the most. Of course, the result of the budgetary conciliation was that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre cooked together a solid tax and tax meal, which they are to serve in New Year's press for the Norwegian people. While taxes are now lowered in other countries, they are increasing in Norway — and for no good reason at all. The budgetary agreement will help to further build on the protection of the public sector at the expense of the private value-creating sector. In Norway, work is currently in progress. Seventy-five thousand people in the public sector, and so it's going to be more. Is it really sensible policy to increase the number of employees in one already large public sector, which is characterised by the fact that most of what is happening there is protected from almost any competition? The absence of competition leads to higher costs and poor quality. A positive element for the Norwegian economy would have been to increase productivity and improve quality in the protected public sector. In this respect, it is also the best way to increase productivity and focus on quality, to introduce extensive use of competition in the private sector in all key areas of public service production, which are currently protected as public monopoly areas and excluding competition. From other countries, and also from Norway, we see that there is effective competition for example. providing older people with better quality of service, while creating a more stimulating working environment for their employees. In addition, it may have the effect of reducing costs. I am sure that we need to look into the fact that a substantial renewal and modernisation of the entire heavy public sector will not be successful if we are not willing to apply the competitive element in the areas where work is currently being done by public employees in an at least approximate monopoly position. The municipal and county sectors currently provide the bulk of public welfare services, such as school, health care and care for the elderly. But despite large resources, it fails in several areas in a way that is not worthy of a country that has financial resources to solve the problems. All batches now appear to be genuinely committed to ensuring the country’s citizens an equivalent and good offer in these key areas of public welfare schemes. But we all see that it is becoming increasingly difficult to achieve the desired political goals that have been set for the scale, level and quality of public welfare services, although, as I said, the money is there. They float like never before. So once again, the question is, what are we going to do? Will we continue to defend the sovereign right of public opinion to both deliver and carry out welfare production? Or are we going to open up more markets and competition, and get rid of private solutions on a much larger scale than what has been the case up to today? I firmly believe that we must allow maximum free competition between private and public actors to offer all basic welfare services to the citizens, and that such a stimulating competitive environment will create solutions that are in the best interests of both customers, users and employees. As a by-product, we may get that services can be carried out more reasonably, and that benefits taxpayers. I certainly believe that this is the way to go. I hope that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are increasingly positive about this over time, otherwise I think they can actually forget the whole talk about the renewal and modernisation of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e835	Except for the 160 million. In the case of housing grants that were returned, the government's housing policy plans for the next year have been fully phased out. It's not for no reason, because it's a good budget for housing. In particular, the increase in the framework of the House Bank of 2 billion kroner is an important part, but also that the level of activity of housing grants is increased by 152 million. kr for next year. Both parts are very good. This increase alone will provide room for commitments for grants to 750 – 1000 more dwellings next year. That's an increase of 30 pst. in relation to the current year. Good housing policy is good labour party policy. That's why this is a priority part of the government's bet area. An excessive proportion of the housing stock is currently not available to disabled people. The house bank has said what is required of a dwelling that should have a standard of living. However, only every twentieth dwelling meets these requirements shows the 1997 living conditions survey. At the same time, it is an objective that older people with reduced mobility should be able to live as far as possible in their own homes. Older people with disabilities are by far the largest group of people with disabilities. Therefore, it is correct, as the Government has said, that one needs to improve the availability by prioritising the installation of a lift in existing housing stock. We've talked a lot about the homeless and the problems young people have in the housing market. No one has said that they disagree with the Government in the job that is now done in collaboration with the five largest city councils, especially because we know that 65 pst. of the homeless are there. Increased investment in social housing can also be seen as a good in several contexts, including: compared to the fact that municipalities also see the benefits of building rental dwellings. Having reasonable rental homes for young people who can imagine moving home after completion of education is an instrument that can prevent relocation. Most of the young people today are offered land, but building houses for well over 1 million. When you are unsure about whether you are working, in many ways you are not an alternative for young people. I see that the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV in a note point out that the municipalities cannot afford this investment. The question is whether they can afford not to. I believe that the biggest effort on the part of municipalities must be to contribute land. It is a right housing policy that the House Bank should finance good and nudity housing in the cities, especially in the Oslo area. The construction of several student homes will help to ease the pressure on the rental market. In the press areas today the prices of dwellings are falling. Nevertheless, only more dwellings on the market can contribute to a further fall in prices. The claim that my generation has dragged up the ladder afterwards is correct. I believe that the government's commitment contributes to more people having access to housing, especially young people. They're the ones who need it the most. So to another theme we in the Labour Party are putting high on the agenda: public sector conversion. And if there is any comfort to the representative Torbjørn Andersen, who made the previous posts, we are not interested in the way the Progress Party will go. We're aware that you don't just get good friends by starting to implement this. We need digestion and drag help in the renewal work, and we need the trade movement as a good and constructive supporter. A strong public sector shall be able to convert and renew continuously. It is necessary to keep pace with changes in society. We must go critically through the structures and systems we have built up, and change them in relation to the needs and challenges we face. And in the focus of everything we do, first of all, the users should be standing. If we fail to renew as needs change, the public sector will easily become discredited by most people. If this process is to succeed, it must be done properly, and there must be thoughtful proposals. The renewal can also be aimed not only at the system as such, but also at better exploitation and development of human resources. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important that employees and their organisations become a central part of this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e867	From 28 October to 4 November, I had the pleasure of joining the delegation at the official visit of Grand President Kolle Grondahl to Malawi. Malawi was designated co-operative country on the initiative of the Stortinget following the introduction of multi-party regimes there. It was an interesting and instructive visit, and we who were there experienced a lot. Among other things, we had: the joy of attending a school where Norway had contributed through UNICEF. There were over 500 students, and there were five teachers and three temporarily added. The principal at the school, who was responsible for the first grade, had 150 students. Malawi, a small country in southern Africa with 10 million. people, had a government budget of about 5 billion kroner. We spend over 100 times as much on a population that's half as large, or between 200 and 250 times as much. The World Bank representative pointed out in a conversation with, among others, He was in the situation Malawi was in. Because the oil price was so high, Malawi had to cut its school and health budgets. This is one of the pastimes I experience when we discuss municipal budgets and budgets in Norway. Part of the debate has been how much of the oil money – and so high oil prices go beyond the poor in Malawi – we're not going to spend on ourselves; we have to spend it on ourselves first and solve the problems here at home. Today, we have had a debate where terms such as ‘my next’, ‘my next’ or ‘citizen’ are replaced by ‘buying and selling’. Here we are users and customers. The Christian People's Party and I want a society of solidarity, where we are concerned with our fellow human beings and our neighbor and not primarily with our right as a customer. These are different ideologies. These are different ideologies. We're infinitely good shape in Norway, but we're about to have a culture of greed. Then we have 70 000 poor children, and they will benefit from reduced food tax. Then we have institutions that work abroad, for example. SIVA's East Division – in that connection, before the summer, I was concerned that the Pomor bakery in Murmansk would be allowed to continue baking bread. ‘SIVA international’ should be something for which the Council of State should fight, with a corridor from Murmansk to Moscow. Some have been concerned in the debate that the Christian People's Party is concerned with district policy. Yes, we are. The framework conditions and instruments for District Norway are important. It is important that increased appropriations for transport, reduced ferry tariffs, travel VAT are gone, that we reject the proposal for an increased electricity charge for industry. One of the most important industrial companies in my own state, Finnfjord melting plant, would probably have gone doll if we hadn't done this. I am very pleased with the agreement, the agreement that the central parties have reached with the Workers' Party. It helps to strengthen the belief in District Norway, the belief in Coast Norway in the future. We will continue to fight in the Christian People's Party for the weakest, also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e889	I am pleased that the Labour Party and the Centre Parties have agreed on a budgetary agreement that ensures the three main objectives of the Government with the budget: more commitment to our common welfare arrangements, security of the welfare society and fairer distribution. It is also reflected in the budget position of the Municipal Committee. One of the major challenges facing Norway today is the lack of housing for some groups. We are all aware that some groups, especially young people in the start-up phase, are struggling on the housing market because of high prices. Since 1991, housing prices in Norway have increased by approx. 60 pst. – in Oslo with approx. 150 pst. Through the next year’s draft government budget, the Government has given direction and created room for a more active housing policy. I am pleased that there is a majority for this, and that next year the loan framework in the House Bank is thus increased by NOK 2 billion. This will lead to our being able to have more housing under the direction of the Husbank, especially in the press areas get a significantly increased loan measure for each individual dwelling increasing the number of start-up loans from approx. 8 000 to approx. 12,000, which means an increase of almost 50 pst. have a significant increase in the number of student housing that can be financed by the Husbank We don't know a certain number, but there are 6,000-7000 homeless in Norway today. It is an unacceptable situation, as many people have been involved in today's debate. In view of that, I think it is very gratifying that there is a broad uprising in the Stortingen to strengthen the efforts of the homeless. The money is in the House Bank, now we have to get local plans from the municipalities, who are responsible for this. With next year's government budget, there will be many more rental homes for young and disadvantaged people. We have proposed, and joined, an increase in the housing allowance that will provide room for building 750 to 1000 more rental homes next year. It's about a doubling of the effort in recent years. Sick if most people want to own their own homes in the long term, it will be right for some people to rent housing, especially for young people and others in a difficult economic situation. Then we also have to provide the House Bank with loans and grants for several small dwellings. For many young people, 30-40 m2 will be enough in a phase of life. Another group in our society who is also waiting for a place to live is many of our refugees who are currently in asylum. There are now about 3 100 people with a residence permit decision in Norway who have not been given a municipality to live in. Extra evil I think it's that there's a lot of lonely minors among these. Some municipalities do a good job in this area, but there are too many who do not do the job they should do. The result is that too many people stay in reception for too long. It's an unfortunate situation, and it's something that everyone loses on in the long run. The way things are today, I think the settlement system is going to be a blackmail game. It can't go on like that. I believe today's system has demonstrated that it is in no way good enough. The municipalities told us when we got into the government position – they probably told the former governments too – that they have too little money to do the job of settling refugees. It took the Government seriously by proposing the increase in the integration grant to which the Storting will join, from 300000 kroner to 365000 kroner. I also expect the municipalities that so far have not taken the responsibility they should take to settle refugees to take responsibility, so that we can get them out of reception and integrated and settled in the municipalities as quickly as possible. This is particularly important for the children who sit around in reception. We also want to propose, as the committee is familiar with, a new housing model, which is that each state is allocated x the number of refugees, and then the municipalities in the county must agree on the distribution of the refugees. We will also have a good opportunity to discuss this further in connection with the message that will be sent in less than a very long time. I would also like to say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. I believe that, in general, we have given municipalities a big boost for the next year, which will give municipalities the opportunity to give their citizens a better welfare offer than they have today. So I'm very well aware, as others have also pointed out, that there are still some municipalities in a difficult situation, and so does the Government. But the municipal structure adopted next year is a good arrangement for the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e923	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e926	I must say that I am a little disappointed that the Council of State did not in a single word mention one of the important matters to be decided at the national meeting of the Labour Party, namely this with future to the County Council. Now was probably the reason why the council didn't mention it, that she had so little speaking time that it was difficult to bring everything with her. In this way, I'm going to give her two minutes to respond to this line, about the nuance difference that we now heard when it relates to the county council. While the leader of the municipal committee, the representative Berit Brørby, today argued that she was concerned that the county municipality should be laid down as a political and administrative body, we have heard that at one time the Council of State was talking about four or five major regions, which would take over the role of the county council – in its present form – in the future. Now I've seen in the newspapers that the Council of State has increased that number to nine, but it might be interesting to get right what is now going to be the result, and if the Council of State shares the opinion of the leader of the committee, that the county council should perhaps be closed down. Or is the government not entirely in agreement with the leader of the municipal committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e931	Now the representative Solholm doesn't have to add anything more to it that I didn't mention the division of tasks between the different levels of government in my post, than that it was limited to time, and that it didn't have much to do with this budget. This does not mean that I am not very concerned about that issue, and that is well known to the representative. We also get plenty of opportunity to discuss it when the government comes with the message in March-April next year. So I just want to say that there is no basis for creating a conflict between the head of the municipal committee and signed on this issue. Of course – as the chairman of the municipal committee said – we are behind the decision that the national meeting has now taken, namely that there should be a regionally elected level between the municipalities and the state. It is also clear that the Government wants to decentralise tasks to the primary municipalities and to this new level of the region. What it is, and what tasks it is about, we will come back to in connection with the message I have been talking about. With regard to the question of whether the new regions should be as they are today, the answer to that is no. There will be changes in relation to what the county authorities look like today. What changes it will be, how extensive, how large, how many, etc., we will come back to in the near future, but there is also, of course, a clear objective and a maritime argument in this process – in addition to giving more power to where people live – to free resources from administration to direct services, and that we should avoid that which is of double work in relation to the situation at some levels per. today. Of course, we will also go through the role of the state, to see if there are things we can make simpler and less governing than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e940	Governments were concerned both with the housing situation of those who had difficulty finding housing, and not least with the fact that minor asylum seekers remained in reception for too long. Like the Council of State, I am pleased that we are increasing the integration grant from 300,000 to 365 000 kroner. But at the same time, the Council of State indicated that there were municipalities that had difficulty. In addition to both recognising that this is not good enough in relation to minor asylum seekers, and that municipalities have difficulties, does the Council believe that the increase from 300 000 to 365 000 DKK will be enough in relation to having minor asylum seekers settled? As the situation is now, it is not worthy of us. The second thing I could imagine asking for is the regrettable fact that, despite the fact that both financial and human resources have been made available, UDI seems to spend longer time in proceedings than we had at least hoped. What concrete action will the Council of State take to reduce UDI time? And finally, I've asked questions before in this room about what the Council of State was going to do in relation to the climatic conditions that we're experiencing. The climate has played a kiss in the time after too, but last winter it was snowmobiles, and in the proposition, Finnmark and Nordland are referred to as the snowmobiles. I assume it's a forgetfulness when Troms isn't there. That's where most of the accidents and fatal accidents have happened, and where most of the steps have gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e950	I am – as many have said here today – very concerned about the situation of lone minors, who were also concerned about the representative of Østberg. There, the government has done several things to the municipalities. Firstly, we have had settlement conferences all around the country, where all the municipalities of the country have been represented. And some of what we focused a lot on there was just that we needed to settle the lonely minors much faster. We have – also I personally – had contact with the Municipal Councils in several rounds and tried to appeal and encourage the municipalities to do their job. The answer I have then received is that the municipalities have too little money. We have taken this seriously through the integration grant. And on direct questions from the representative of Østberg if that's enough, I can say that's what the municipalities have asked for, and then I expect that's enough, and then I expect the municipalities to do. The other thing the municipalities have pointed out to me is that there has been too little money to build homes for, including for this group. I believe that the Government has taken seriously, and that the Storting will join in an increased grant in the House Bank. I would also like to come back to even more measures in connection with the message that is being submitted in a very short time, because I believe it is totally unacceptable that we leave kids sitting in reception for months and years. I'm set to do everything in my power to prevent it from going on like this, and that's what's behind us proposing a new housing model. All the experience shows, and this is no new phenomenon now, that if we don't do anything more radical in this area, these kids will still be sitting there for months and years. I'm not willing to accept that, and I hope a majority here in the house can agree with the Government on when we're going to deal with it. In the case of the UDI procedure, like the representative, Mr Østberg, I am very concerned that it takes too much time. That was the reason why I asked for a report from the Foreign Affairs Directorate to suggest what could be done to reduce the processing time. I have now got it on the table. I will promise that I will go through it very quickly and come back with proposals for action in the very near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e959	I agree with the Council of State that there is an urgent need to do something about UDI. There are several areas within the UDI that I think there would be a need to have an independent review of, among other things. to find the actual location of the bottlenecks, the simplification of the legislation. But there are also some other areas, such as the predictability of the receivers, the signals sent. We have one issue that we have raised in the budget with the Council of State in the form of letters, namely the new reception of transit, the problems associated with where it actually stands, and when you get started. The Council of State has been very clear that it will begin to work in the spring. All the signals we have from those who are in the field say that it is quite impossible to get to, but I hope that the letters that the Council of State has sent us, where she says it will, are what is going to be the current policy, and that will be realized. For the time being, as far as I know, there is not even an agreement with the Air Force on the use of the area. I want to address a matter that has been raised in a minority proposal from the Right, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, and there are questions about getting an orientation on the status of Reform 97. In a letter to the Council of State, I have addressed the question of whether you think you are finally done, and I have been told that you think you are finally done reporting – also about compensation – in this case. I have understood from other parties that attention has been paid to the fact that the control committee should also have dealt with the matter. But what the inspection committee said in the course of the examination was that the department itself has shown that it has given the Norwegian Research Council the task of evaluating the work on Reform 97, including the economic issues. I think it is somewhat surprising that one has finished a case and will not report to the Stortinget, which the Stortinget has supposed to do, when there is still a research project related to it, and on which we should really get a case back.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e966	Let me first say a few words about the UDI and the trial period, as the representative Solberg also mentioned it. I guess we all, no matter what parties we represent, have to go a little bit in our sails when we oblige the UDI to prioritize everything at once, at least very much, whether it's Kosovo Albanians, criminals or it's lonely minors. There are a lot of things we've ordered them to give priority, and then at least it's very important to recognize that it means that there are people who have to do that job, and that it also costs some money. But I think we need to have a very open position and look at all possible measures to reduce the length of proceedings. Maybe it could also be that there might be something that can be lifted out of the UDI, that others can take care of. But we're going to get back to that in a very short time. With regard to the issue of reform 97, as the representative Solberg said, we have had an exchange of letters on it. There it is, as I have also briefed in the letter, that investment compensation has always been based on objective data and computational assumptions, and it has never been suggested that investment compensation should be a reimbursement scheme. The size also has to do with the treatment of St.prp. No 39 for 1995-96 and on several later occasions joined this way of compensating municipalities. The Ministry of Local Government laid down in St.prp. No 60 for 1997-98, on the local economy 1999 etc., put forward its proposal to follow up on the position of the Cost Calculation Committee, to which the Stortinget also joined. The follow-up led directly to the work of the Cost Calculation Committee and, in view of this, the investment frame was the basis for investment compensation in the context of Reform 97. The size also agreed on this occasion to the principle of using objective data and computational technical assumptions for the investment frame. It is based on the fact that the Government does not intend to resubmit the matter to the Stortinget. However, if new information should come up against assumption, it is clear that we will deal with it, but so far there is no evidence of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e973	The central party is pleased that the Government, in the same way as the previous government, strengthened the budget with increased frames to the House Bank. We're also naked with extra bumps. We want housing for the homeless to be more prominent. We have expectations of the cooperation established between the ministry and the five largest cities, but we are concerned that it will still take time before it becomes housing. Let me do an example. Stavanger Aftenblad on November 7 reads that the Stavanger municipality had for 2001 about housing for 57 women who were heavily under stress, now put on ice. These are women without a permanent dwelling, with shelter and other temporary solutions as an alternative. Stavanger Municipality makes difficult decisions for many of its weakest and most postponed groups these days. I do not know well enough the background for the down-priority of this concrete measure. It's close to believing that, among other things. may have to do with the municipal property. There's a cross of thought that there's 13 million unused left this year, while there's needy who don't have the prospect of a permanent place to live. I don't expect the government to comment on this particular example, but I'll ask her to investigate it any further. I also want to ask her to look at how she can even better inform about what means are available, and I also want her to consider what kind of asset she can contribute within the resources we have at our disposal, so that the funds are really used in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e980	As I have said, I fully share the concern that there are too many in Norway who do not have a place to live, and I can assure you that the Government has a lot of attention about it, and that I will also contribute to that from our side, along with the Storting, we will do what we can with this situation, which is of course necessary. It's an unacceptable situation. I will check up on the matter that the representative raised, and can not say anything more about it now. But in general, in the case of grants to the homeless, the first priority is given to the schemes we have per year. today. That's enough money. It is also true that if there are any municipalities that want to get money this year, they will get a commitment this year. The problem is that in many places there is a lack of ideas and concrete proposals on how to solve this. And there we have, as the representative of Kleppa also pointed out, a dialogue with the largest cities in this country, because of course that is where the problem is greatest. I can assure you that personally I will also continue to follow with great care so that we can get together to take action on this matter, because neither government nor big business can build these dwellings. This must be done by the municipalities, together with housing units. Then we have to provide money and that the legislation is the way it should be. And I will, along with the Storting, make sure that it is, and at the same time make sure that the dialogue and information are the way it should be to those municipalities that have the greatest challenges in this area. Otherwise, I would just like to inform you that in July I sent a letter to all the municipalities of the country where I attached the document on a more solid housing policy, where the homeless is one of the points. So all the municipalities in the country have been encouraged, and there have been special meetings with the five big cities. But this is a work that I'm of course going to continue, because I share the concerns of this group and will do what's in my power to contribute in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e989	The Council of State says that we, and the Government as well, are going to contribute to what we can, in terms of finding housing. Then the SV's question is, "Yes, do we?" Are we helping with everything we can? Can't we do more than what we do today? SV believes that we need to be able to do something more, because this is too small. The Council of State correctly points to legislation, money, etc., and that it is mainly the municipalities that are responsible. But how long are we going to wait for the municipalities to take this responsibility that some of them are trying to do, but they're not doing it because they don't know their poor advice, and others are reluctant because they don't think this is a priority enough. This is one of the reasons why SV has now made a proposal that the State should also go into the owner's side, because the Council of State says that there are no ideas, there is no initiative to get these things going. It's money, but there's no initiative. Wouldn't it have been right then that the state had agreed to also on the owner's side to contribute both ideas and initiative to get this done faster? I don't understand how long we're going to wait; the defects are big and it's going too small. Such an initiative could also contribute more to building housing for many of the asylum seekers whom we want to get out of asylum recipients faster than today. Finally, I would like to ask about something that nobody has been talking about today, but that is actually part of the local economy, and that is public transport. In fact, the subsidies to school kissing, to the cloud system for disabled people and ordinary public transport are there. The problem is that the Municipal Committee and the Stortinget don't get any information either in the budget or in the municipal economics proposition about what kind of quality we get for the money, how much we get for the money we spend, or at all how things are going with the public transport. It has been terribly verbally treated, and then it is also expensive and bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e999	When it comes to questions about the homeless, I show to the extent that I gave the answer to the representative Meltveit Kleppa. I do not agree with the representative Karin Andersen that Regeringa has done a little. It's obviously so that we can all probably do more, but in this area I actually feel, and believe, very strongly that the government has done a lot in a short time. Within a few months, we have presented a separate action plan to do something about this, in particular to this group. We have put money on the table, which is something that a majority of the Stortingen joins – I am very happy about that. We have also taken the initiative to amend laws and regulations, and there have been meetings with many municipalities, especially the large urban municipalities, with which we have a close cooperation to do something special to this group. So what we need is that more municipalities get on the track with plans and ideas. And so money is not a problem with this, we have enough of that, but it's important that we get speed on the other, and I'm going to promise from the Government that we're going to follow up. I do not think there is any good solution that the government is going into the owner's side in relation to building or owning dwellings, nor to this group. I think it is important that we make sure that the money is there, that the legislation is in order, and that we do the other things that we have to do, but that it is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility for this, hopefully in interaction with the housing laws, which can also play a very important role in this area. Otherwise, the representative Andersen is very well aware that the government is reviewing the properties and dwellings and plots owned by the state – which Kosmo is at the head of the state council – to see if there are any of them that can be changed especially in relation to young people. We've already made some concrete proposals there, and we're working on it. When it comes to the last question that Andersen's representative raised, in relation to disabled people and school kissing and quality, I get to take those points of view further, and then we get to get closer to it on another occasion, as my time is now out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1010	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1013	We are on the way into the last financial year of the Great Depression, and in this context, some general reflections and certain minor reflections may be possible. For the responsibilities of the Municipal Committee, as elsewhere, most of the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre is established. Nevertheless, the last two government constellations express themselves verbally differently. I am thinking here of the perfection of the income system and the other framework conditions for the economy of the municipalities and district Norway. It is improperly progressing when the Workers' Party as a government party writes about an equivalent service offer in this country, unlike the centre, which has consistently argued that we needed a qualitatively better service offer in some parts of the country to rule people's homes politically. Often we have also phased in loss compensation over five years, which was the unexplored part of the income system on which Rattsø put the first hand. We now have the chance to phase out the loss compensation, under the partial condition of compensation for loss of compensation. In the name of objectivity, the Government shall also establish criteria for drug use and social conditions in the income system. This we believe is important. We also recall that the majority have previously asked for a review of regional grants, capital grants and North Norway grants in the 2002 municipal economicproposition. The threshold effects of the regional grant have been a review theme in this type of debate for several years. However, district policy is much more than the public sector. The framework conditions for private business are absolutely essential for a viable District Norway. For a number of years, the right has been focussing on accessibility through proposals for increased road investment – equal resources for research and education and improved framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. A profitable business is the foundation of all other societal developments, and this is not least the case in District Norway. On the other hand, the main impression of the agreement is the strangulation of business framework conditions through short-term business tax and depreciation rules, among other things, and such a management of labour away from competitive business and in favour of an estimated public sector need. Finally, a comment on a very special part of the public-private sector interface, namely the development of the payment service in the labour market by Aetat. From our perspective, Aetat should leave this activity to private. But in the setting, we see the drag fight about the organisational form of this business that Aetat is building up. If this activity is not separated from Aetat, it will have a competitive and viable relationship with the activity, and the majority point out that cross-subsidy is a nearby problem. A majority therefore believe that it is natural to return to final organisation in a case in 2001 or in the context of the revised national budget for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1028	I am pleased that the Stortinge is mainly in line with the Government's approach to the 2001 labour market policy, including the arrangements for measures and efforts towards people with disabilities. Fortunately, the situation on the labour market is far better than what many have done just a short time ago. Due to a sharp decline in investment, especially in oil-related industries, and lower activity in the yard industry, last year there was concern for job reduction and that the increase in unemployment would decrease. It hasn't been like that. In the last year, employment has increased by 12,000 persons, and never has more participation in the labour market than in the third quarter of this year. In particular, good development in large parts of the service sector has resulted in a very good labour market for young people in particular. However, let me not underestimate that there are still major challenges in labour market policy and that we have high ambitions to reach even further. The statistics of the Labour Market Act show that more than 60,000 people are unemployed. There are some more than at the same time last year. The increase has taken place largely within parts of industry, and in particular the South-West has been affected. I am glad that by far the majority of the unemployed are relatively quick to return to work, and that the number of long-term unemployed is still low and stable. However, we still have a job to do in mobilising labour resources, among the long-term unemployed, immigrants and disabled people. In the national budget, the Government assumes that unemployment will not increase in 2001, and that is in line with the opportunities most forecasters suggest. As far as the petroleum-related supply industry is concerned, we will ensure that action is taken when necessary to ensure competence at a time of low activity and to convert groups of employees into new tasks. At the same time, we need to have an eye to make use of the total number of areas of action for which the appropriations are available in order to reach the overall labour market measures and the priorities of both growth and government. In some parts of the labour market, there is actually a shortage of labour. This is particularly true in parts of the construction sector and in the health and care sectors. This situation takes the government very seriously. The government shall follow up the Sandman Committee’s proposals on how to reduce the growth of sick leave and disability. The government will also assess simplifications in the labour immigration legislation. Together, the follow-up to these cases shall improve labour supply in specific areas. The Committee has been concerned that people with difficulty in reading and writing should receive a good offer for transition to regular work. I agree with this. The Ministry will, in its own letter to the Directorate-General for Labour, address questions related to Aetat’s efforts for people with reading and writing difficulties — both on the basis of the inter-pelling debate earlier this autumn and on the basis of the budget position and what the Committee has said here. However, as regards the reference of the majority committee to ‘formal requirements for, for example: presence at fixed time’ should not prevent the use of measures, I have to allow myself a very small comment. I assume that the number of committees with this did not mean that there would be no requirement for the participants to ensure that they would benefit from the courses. I remind you that we all have to adapt to meet-up requirements at a specified time. This must also apply in the course of preparation for work. The need to be flexible in relation to individuals does not mean that one should relax the requirements of those who are very well able to meet the requirements set out. I would like to add that the Government will come back to the question of support for work trips for disabled people. This will provide an additional basis for ensuring the participation of people with disabilities in the labour market and thus also provide a subsidy to reduce the labour shortage. I have noticed that, like the Ministry, the Committee is concerned that the provision of services by the Labour Market Act against payment by the employer is to be done within a clear framework. The Ministry recommends that these services be provided from its own entities in the Aetat Enterprise, which are to carry out the production, sale and marketing of the services themselves. We will come back later this winter, hopefully in the spring, with proposals for the reorganisation of the entire labour market seat, how the final organisation of the Aetat Business should be. I would just like to end by stressing that, for me, however, it is essential that Aetat Enterprise and the temporary employment service should be part of the overall labour market measures, and not a commercial activity in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1049	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1053	The working party would not or might not be allowed to join the following comment: ‘The majority indicate that today’s organisation implies the need to look at competitive and viable conditions in the establishment. Today, the Labour Market Act provides both intermediary services and services in return for payments in line with private rental companies, while the Labour Directorate acts as a supervisor of the provisions on rental and private employment services. The majority would point out that cross-subsidisation is a nearby problem when the same person can offer both payment services and traditional free services from Aetat. The majority consider that there is a need for an assessment...’» – and on the other hand, the majority believes that the Competition Authority should look more closely at this. Does the Council of State think that cross-subsidy is not a problem in this context? Does the Council further believe that there is no problem that one and the same person is the controller and the seller of services to control himself? Does the Council of State think that the Competition Authority should not look at this problem, or will the Council of State follow the majority of the Committee, which wants this to be looked upon by the Competition Authority, and that we should get feedback on this during the spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1065	I have noted the comment of the majority of the committee. It is neither better nor any worse than the remark made by the Workers' Party's fraction. They have the same intention that we have to make sure that we have an organization of the business that is so that we don't have unfortunate cross-subsidies. There should be no basis for the representative of Solholm to ask me that, because I have communicated to the committee so many times that there should be no unfortunate cross-subsidy. I am, of course, committed to using the Competition Authority as an important instrument to ensure that this is not done. At the same time, I have also made it clear to the Committee in the past that the control role should be cleared up. It is not acceptable that the establishment operating in the same area as many do in the private market should check those in the private market. We're going to get back to this, and I'm going to aim to put things right before 1 January 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1072	I also have to ask a little about Aetat, because the majority are concerned that today's system in Aetat is going to lead to cross-subsidisation and stability problems. It is quite clear that when the same person can offer both free services and paid services, it becomes easily connected. The main organisation of the trade and service industries believes that today’s system does not achieve international goals – in short, Norway will lose in a possible ESA case. Therefore, the majority have requested that the Competition Authority assess conditions of competition and sustainability issues. Sees the council that his organization of the Aetat may be doubtful, and that a scheme in line with Ot.prp. No 70 for 1998-99 from the Bondevik government would have cleaned up in grey and interrelationship? A simpler Norway – to tackle it as well – and the fight against the form field was a project prepared by the Bondevik government, but not completed. I know a carpenter who is good at building houses, but he's not good at filling out forms. His small business certainly does not have the capacity or the economy to fill out the piles of forms required by the regulations. What can and will the State Council and Government do to prevent the form field from drowning municipalities, technical establishments and, as a result, my friend, the carpenter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1083	Of course, the ambition is that we should not offer the carpenter additional adult training courses to fill out forms, but that we should try to make this so simple that it should be possible for everyone to be responsible, both in relation to the product to be supplied and to the person to receive the product, and in relation to the usual general rules to be followed in the construction industry in Norway. We're on it. And I've said that a thousand times – those parts of the project ‘Simplify Norway’ that the former government put in place, which has reason in itself, we're going to follow up. That doesn't mean that everything is going to be followed up, but large parts of it. Then I have to say that I would have waited with the liberalisation of the labour market for the year 2000-2001 because I should have all this in place. But it was the bulk of the population who pushed through a solution that would definitely have done this per year. 1 July. That is why in some areas we have had some difficulty in setting up the organisation that the Labour Market Act should have in order to operate these activities in the general labour market measures, which are also so clearly distributed that there are no accusations or suspicions of cross-subsidies. In fact, I believe that the model we have chosen by separating this into an Aetat Business – which is to share on the rent with the rest of the business, which is to keep a separate account, where it clearly states the resources used – has such a device that there is no possibility of unfortunate cross-subsidisation. If there is any suspicion, we have the Competition Authority, which can go in and look at this. And I feel absolutely confident that this should be much better and better organised in than many EU countries have in their labour market businesses. So I feel completely safe about ESA as well. It might have been an advantage to wait until the end of the year – but we're in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1090	On a slightly different theme: In the newspaper a week ago, the Council of State has visited the LO State cartel conference on Gol, and it was stated in the paper that there should be 80,000 for many who work in the municipalities, and that the Municipality of Norway should be brought to an end. If the Council of State is correctly quoted, he said: ‘If people are not satisfied with public services, people will choose private solutions. Fifty percent can afford it. The other 50 percent will lose.» Can the Council of State comment on this with private solutions? Is this the case of organised private solutions ordered by the public through the outsourcing of competition, or is there any other private, free initiative in this context? And maybe it's possible to bring in an additional theme: we know that the Municipal Committee and the Stortinget have also invested efficiency potential through a structural wish in Kommune-Norway, where not only through ten years of promises of basic grants, but also through regional grants, one should be able to catalyze an association process. Does this Council of State, in consultation with other Councils of State, if appropriate, see the need for additional instruments to improve the effectiveness of a structural issue in Kommune-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1102	I think it's great that the Storting is impatient with the renewal process. The prerequisite for the success of the renewal process is that landfilling, government, department, directorates are willing to stop detailed management of Commune-Norway, external state agencies – I had almost also said individual individuals in Norway. And when Stortingen is impatient and wants to end this detailed management, I feel quite confident that we will succeed. And then I'm going to repeat what I said on Gol. So there are 700,000 employees in the state and municipality. Let's move 5 pst. of those resources from administration and bureaucracy to service production, there are 35,000 people, and that is a real boost. Of course, we can't do that in a couple of years, but we can do that over time if we do the right things. I believe that if in a country with 4.5 million people we are unable in health, care and school to offer good community solutions, then we will have lost. Because at the moment that people are not satisfied with the Community solutions that we are so heavily dependent on to avoid the distinction between the books of money for people, those who have the most will buy services either here in the country or abroad. And then you use resources that we would like to be able to distribute to those who need it the most. That is why, in this renewal process, we are also committed to maintaining the Community solutions that we need in order to distribute in a proper and sensible way. Therefore, there is no renewed talk of competitive outsourcing and privatisation. Renewal is about putting in place the tools that allow us to gain greater freedom, greater flexibility, to make the most important choices in the service industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1109	Kosmo County Council has taken on an exciting and demanding work, one of which is a review of Aetat with the aim of making it an even more likely hub for employing more people. For me, the suspension of the municipal committee during the last few months has allowed me to listen to the experience of different companies for the disabled. I'm impressed by the efforts being made over a long period of time, and also by the supplements made by different job creation projects. A softer workline was one of the strategies in the dithering message. the possibility for others to combine work and social security and thus have a link with the labour market. I note that the Council of State wants greater variation in the use of the funds at its disposal. I think that's right. At the same time, we in the Central Party want to stress that we believe it is necessary to give more people opportunities, both through ASVO companies, through work on aid and through salary subsidies. We expect him to follow it up as a plurality in the committee wants to last when it concerns both the job creation center and Revita. I want to give him the opportunity to say whether he will also consider expanding the possibility of purchasing jobs for the unemployed in more ordinary enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1120	When 50,000 people with disabilities say that what they want the most is to get to work, we have to be busy trying to get it to, on the one hand, because we so intensely need their workforce, both now and in the future, and on the other hand because we can then join and give them as people a better everyday life. Then there are a number of things we have to succeed in getting to. I want to have an offer that is so flexible that it should be possible to give the right offer to the individual, whichever is the individual's ability to get back to work, and we should not be locked in a rigid code that limits us. But I have got an upper frame of the Storting for how much money I am allowed to spend on this, while Stortinget has said that we are going to keep the activity in the labour market enterprises going. Then there is little opportunity to swallow very much, because I can't go beyond the frame. Clearly, labour market enterprises are important. But for many people, perhaps the right path back to working life will be wage subsidies directly linked to a single enterprise, often combined with a training course of competence, and perhaps also a course of work training in parts of the time you are working, i.e. a combination of work and follow-up. I wish we had more resources, so we could experiment more with different flexible choices aimed specifically at the individual. But it's coming, I'm convinced of that. For the moment, we have to deal with the rules and external frameworks laid down for this type of activity. But I have to say, we all have to be better off getting to the budget and measures that are more flexible towards the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1131	I will address what the Council of State concluded with: the measures should be more flexible and targeted at the individual. That's exactly why the committee has written the remark about attendance, which I heard the council found a little strange. Some of the measures are aimed at people with reading and writing difficulties, people who have really met the wall in the general school system, and who need to adapt their arrangements. The reality of these schemes is that people actually get through, they get through so well that they get to the university. And they come to work. Then we can't sit down and say, "Because you don't come to the course at 0 p.m. 7.30 every morning, you shouldn't be allowed to get through. That's how Aetat has been sitting and steering this up until now. It's gonna be bad. The Council of State said that unemployment should not increase. Isn't it supposed to go down? That's why we're doing these things. It's going down, isn't it? I want the Council of State to confirm that the objective is that it should be below what it is today. I could imagine getting the State Council's comment on the SV's proposal for a recruitment message for the municipal sector. We believe that this is actually necessary to bring about the necessary transformation and modernisation of the public sector. I read in the evening post on 30 November that the Council of State had met state employees, and there he confirmed that thousands of employees had to change jobs. They need to get closer to the patient, closer to the student, i.e. closer to the user. Does this change mean that employees will then fall into pay, or does the Council of State think that career paths may have to be taken in the more efficient professions? In that case, how are you going to be able to recruit and keep all of these people, if everyone is going to stay on the foundation path through life? We want several of them to work in these professions. That's the starting point for SV's proposal, because we see that this is absolutely necessary. When we got a recruitment message for the teachers, it worked. We have to get it for the municipal sector as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1144	Of course, we need to work intensively to reduce unemployment, particularly among the long-term unemployed and among immigrant groups who are not entering the labour market today, but we are very low in the European context. We have to be prepared for major fluctuations in industrial employment, so it's not only important to bring unemployment down, it's also important to bring it down in those areas where we have the greatest challenges. Then I want to say that I agree with the representative Karin Andersen when she points out that with the tariff systems we have today, you have to change jobs in order to have career development. It is not particularly good in terms of ensuring the preservation of competences and the development of individual professions. It is quite obvious that in the public sector as a whole, both the municipality and the state, we need to work with the tariff systems that allow us to actually lock development opportunities in many ways in some jobs so that we empty the workplace of competence. We have to get better there. I think we should not try to promote so many messages for Stortinget, but as employers take our responsibility seriously and go into the various negotiations just with the ambition of working with employees' organisations to try to build up the tariff systems that we have. Clearly, this is more of a tariff question than a question of making a big deal about recruitment. Then I agree that for some it would be wrong to make too strong demands for attendance, while for others it would be hopeless not to make demands for attendance. That's why I said in my post that although someone needs us to be a little flexible, it doesn't have to be that way that we don't maintain the requirements for stringency for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1153	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1157	I want to take from the situation in Inner Finnmark with very high unemployment and problems in the reindeer industry. Inner Finnmark has a very one-sided business, where reindeer operations are the largest workplace. When overgrazing and predatory pests cause major problems in reindeer management, it is difficult to master in a small municipality. The availability of youth is high. The girls usually take school while the boys stay. And since there's no room for more people in reindeer operations, the boys often get out of work, or at best participate in seasonal work. Therefore, Inner Finnmark requires special attention. The Committee has also said that the authorities need to monitor developments closely. But often it is that there are good projects that are missing, and not just money. Therefore, further development of the business life of Inner Finnmark must take place in close cooperation between the municipality and the public. District municipalities usually have a larger task and a greater responsibility in relation to industrial development and infrastructure than municipalities in the more central districts of the country. This is a long tradition for the Workers' Party to take into account, and we will continue to do so. Fishing and farming are areas to be further developed in District Norway. Granting concessions to the underprivileged areas is a cheap district policy, but it is now the largest and fastest settlement. But then it is important to facilitate such development by putting in place a good infrastructure. In order to transport fresh products from the outermost regions, the road network must both be built for heavy transport and be built in such a way as to ensure a smooth supply to the market. We have areas in Finnmark that could be at risk of being isolated for a week in the sling, because we still have road sections that don't have all year round road standards. To get the full count of the fishery and aquaculture industry, we need to get rid of the main bottlenecks on the road network. In order to achieve the desired nutritional development in District Norway, there are a number of instruments that we need to maintain and preferably expand. SND has and should continue to play a central role in industrial development in districts. That's why it's worth noting that the Progress Party's goal is to put down positive instruments in North Norway to create room for its tax promises. Such a policy will only exacerbate the situation, and then my claim is that the Progress Party is sacrificing District Norway in favour of the more central strata. Some prominent leading party leaders in Finnmark are right to say that the policy of the Progress Party in this area should not apply in Finnmark. If we are to take this in the best possible sense – and that is what we should do – we are to believe that they want a better district policy. One of the same leaders said to Dagbladet here in Oslo in the autumn in response to some unpleasant questions about district policy that he referred to our great father in the south, the leader of the Progress Party. Now the events of the last days in the Progress Party show that at least there is a part in the South that does not have the same limitless trust in the leader of the Advance Party. But whether the district policy of the Progress Party is improved for that reason, or whether it leads to other things, remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1181	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1184	The local economy is an important part of this debate, although it has already been adopted in the context of the financial situation. Never before have the municipalities received as much money as they will get to the next year – DKK 5 billion in increase, in addition to DKK 3.4 billion to cover increased teacher pay and extended vacations, and then another DKK 1.25 billion to provisions for child and survivors' pensions – the last as a result of the reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. Such a lifting for the municipalities believes that the Workers' Party had to take after several lean years. I noticed that the representatives from the centre parties today talked about the community economy with stars in their eyes. And that's not so strange, because after several years of cooperation with the right parties, the revenues of the municipal sector didn't go so well. However, it is worrying that the debt of the local government sector will increase by DKK 30 billion in the years 1999-2001, although 10 billion of these are attributable to investments in the elderly and primary school reform. The central parties sat with the government for two of these three years and had more opportunities to do something in the past. They didn't. That's why it's not going to be credible that the will now has become so infinite in terms of indebtedness in the billions class. The forwarding party's tax arrangements for the local economy are also interesting reading. The Party's tax arrangements contain a number of facilitations that largely affect the tax revenue of the local government sector. The proposals of the Progress Party for the taxation of persons, together with the fact that the party is taxing dividends and proposing a lot of other tax reliefs, mean for given taxpayers that the total tax revenue of the local government sector would be reduced by approximately NOK 6 billion. How, then, would welfare services for sick people, for the elderly, for children and young people be in the municipalities? Then I don't think it would have helped with never so much outsourcing – and it can't happen overnight either. No, I do not think the rapporteur in Os himself would have accepted that. He would probably also put up and protested on such a budget. Now I see that the Progress Party also provides some examples of differences between municipalities. That's the way it is, and that's the way it has to be to some extent. But with the arrangement of the Progress Party, all the municipalities would get less in transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1199	The government, together with the trade union movement, has fought to reduce long-term unemployment, among other things. long-term unemployed have been particularly priority in the case of labour market measures. Work life is marked by major changes and a high pace. The efficiency and yield requirements are increasing. More and more people are sickened and ill-adapted, unfortunately. I am pleased that the Government has so clearly stated that the sickness pay scheme should not be weakened. The working party cannot help weakening schemes to help those who are ill. People should be aware that the proposals of the Progress Party for cuts in the health pay scheme will mean a reduction of NOK 60 000 per year. year for one who earns NOK 300000 per year. In the years to come, there will be a need for more people with competence in care and health. Free hands can apply for education or take courses of shorter duration to train for the available jobs. I have always been concerned about those who have been most unemployed, and who have lost their job innocently. I have previously stated that the People's Security Act § 4-6 should be amended so that persons undergoing education or training do not lose their daily allowances over a certain period of time. I realize, of course, that this has to be limited to the group that needs it the most, that has gone free for a longer period and that is in a special age group, but it is wasted with human resources that these people are not given the opportunity to use their abilities. A solution should be found to enable adult people who have become unemployed unincorporated to be able to learn to work without having to go to the social office. This applies primarily to those we used to call Section 20 students, who are now called practical candidates. I hope the Minister of Labour and Administration can look at such a scheme. In Hedmark County, we have the project ready, but it assumes that it is allowed to think flexibly, creatively and across the floors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1214	To follow up where Eirin Faldet left off, I can say that there is now a unanimous committee in favour of Aetat also cooperating with other agencies in such projects – not only strategically but also with its instruments. It's actually an opening size now given, so it's up to the council to realize it. And we hope he does. Now I might have hoped that the representative of the Fallet, who is in the Committee on Transport, had talked about local economy and public transport, because the grants for public transport are within the county's framework appropriations. And I'm going to keep going on with what I'm talking about instead. The problem is that we don't get any feedback, neither in St.prp. No 1 or in the community economic proposition, on how much we get for public transport, how much it costs, whether prices go up or down – that is: do people get a better offer or a worse offer for the money we put in here? So there's no feedback at all. And that's a problem, because the majority say they want to strengthen public transport, and then we should get a little bit more idea of how the money we put in, actually comes out in terms of services. Now we know that the prices of public transport are increasing in most places, that offers are being put down, and that they are getting worse. And then people choose the private car, with all the disadvantages it brings. So here we have to take some new steps, and then we have to first of all have knowledge. So finally, one last remark about housing. Money is not a problem, says the Council of State – it is enough money to build cheap dwellings. There is money there, but the Swedish doubt that there is in fact enough money to make the housing cheap enough, so that those who have poor advice can afford to rent or buy them, and that the municipalities can afford to go into the projects and do not have to pay too much for it. The current grant measure is too small. So it's a little striking, we think, that the government and the majority of the population choose to go into the owner's side of a company called IT Fornebu, which should have done well. And if they hadn't, it wouldn't have done anything, because they should have life's right on their own. But in the case of those who we know are not doing well on their own legs, where the state does not go into the owner's side when you see that it goes both winter and spring and year after year before anything positive happens. It is absolutely incomprehensible to SV that it should be so rigid in the areas where the individual is fully admitted that the public actually does his job, while in the case of the commercial projects that should be able to stand on its own bones, which are the State with, both with money and on the owner's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1227	I guess I wasn't a very good teacher any more, but when I haven't tried twice to explain to the representative Einar Johansen that we don't use a math like what he says, and that our district policy means that the values are going to be where they are created, I think it's the recipient who has a problem, and not the sender. But you get to find out for yourself. Then Signe's eyes were on the front that there'll be so much worse with our policies. It's worth $6 billion, etc. I have to say, as a teacher, I'm also not particularly impressed with the math skills of the representative signe eye. For example, our scheme would reduce the price increase by 5 pst. When the municipalities spend 250 billion dollars a year, and 70 pst. Of it's wages, then probably a price increase of 5 pst. lower than the ordinary, the increase in wages can also be reduced by 2-3 pst., and then simple – I stress simply – the main calculation will show that this will lead to an improved purchasing power for municipalities between 4 and 5 billion kroner. But I have the impression that simple mathematics, at least what we learned in the Labour Party Universities School, is not what is practiced in the Labour Party's big group in calculating the benefits and the backs of their own policies. It's the same thing that Eirin Fallet's representative was in on sick pay. She said that our arrangement would lead to the loss of NOK 60000 on one that is expected to cost NOK 300000. Yes, this suggests that you are using all possible and probable owner messages and sick messages. It says in our arrangement that we should screen the chroniclers, but we assume that we are basically healthy and working. What we're looking for is taking the short-term absence, which costs the public a lot of money. It will also strengthen the local economy if one has the ability to take in a few days or two. I'd like to think that most people don't have anything particularly bad about it as long as you can protect the chroniclers. I thought that the Labour Party would also understand, even though, as I said, the mathematics from the Oneness Ball is clearly forgotten in the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1236	The representative Signe Eye claimed that the representatives of the center parties today have spoken with stars in their eyes. Yeah, if we've done that, it's not that nice, because we've done a historic move. Nearly 22 billion kroner have been moved on, while in this debate we have expressed that we have also swallowed some bitter pills. The head of the committee said that she was pleased with the agreement that has been established, for the center of gravity was between the center and the Workers ’ Party. So we're probably more people who've had stars in their eyes. But I'm kind of startled by Signe Eyes' storywriting and her short perspective backwards. The Bondevik government took over after an ultimatum of 36,9 p.m. – you couldn’t control anymore because the center was so irresponsible. We had contributed to the municipalities getting a big boost, and we had promised that the minimum pensioners would get NOK 1000 more per month. We took over in a situation where interest rates went up and oil prices went down, and we had to take responsibility for a reduction of NOK 9 billion. But we mastered that problem, and after we had managed for a while, interest fell, and we got the economy done. When you're going to tell stories, you have to take the whole story and not just break it. We're proud of what we've done, and we should like to steer further. I have no doubt that it would also have been very good budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1245	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 954]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1259	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 966]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1273	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 967]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1287	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1296	This document proposes that the Committee be annexed to the minutes. The background is that there is a lot of consistency in the document with the views expressed both in St.meld. No 49, About housing for young and disadvantaged people and in the setting of this message. In the Annual Report on the Activities of the House Bank 1996-97, St.meld. No 14 for 1998-99, it is stated that the Husbank must be able to provide funding for new constructions in major cities and press areas. The letter from Brustad State Council to the Committee emphasises this by saying that it is in favour of the House Bank being «freer in its cost assessments and that loan and grant measures are then adapted so that the requirements for equity become affordable.» The Council of State further states that the Ministry of the East Bank should have the task of working closely with the municipalities and the builders of this region. Therefore, like the Council of State, the Committee opposes the creation of a separate department of the Husbank only for Oslo. Building this up, among other things. by means of its own legislation, the majority of the Committee does not consider it appropriate either. What is important to underline, and which is also the intention of the proposers, is that the role of the House Bank in Oslo should be strengthened. The Committee also points out that a proposal has been put forward by Jan Petersen, Sverre J. Hoddevik and Erna Solberg to turn the House Bank into a bank for the first time. The second proposal addressed by this document is the question of a long-term plan for the construction of at least 2000 cheap dwellings per year. Year of youth in the next ten years. Here the Committee points out that the Housing Committee, as appointed by the Government of Bondevik, will look at the long-term perspectives. It is necessary to do something in relation to youth housing, but such a 10-year plan suggests that the Committee should be able to be developed once the Housing Committee has completed its work during 2001 and we have received a separate growth report on housing policy in a longer perspective. The letter from Brustad State Council also shows that the Government has a clear goal of getting more than 2000 reasonable dwellings to young people per year. years. The proposal has many good intentions that the Government has already announced. Not least, it became visible through ‘A solidarity housing policy’, as the Brustad State Council presented this summer. Here the challenges of both the state and the local authorities are discussed in detail. The state's responsibilities include: several student housing, several rental homes, special measures for the homeless and more active use of the Husbanken’s instruments in Oslo. A number of people need to be granted a start-up loan, and we need to make better use of existing housing stock. But the municipalities also have a responsibility: there must be more municipal organisation for increased housing in the press areas, and a more active planning policy is the key, not just plots at the highest price, but a conscious policy to place plots for the development of young and disadvantaged people at a lower land cost. In Document No: 8:68 for 1999-2000 it is noted that public authorities, contractors and financial institutions need to cooperate more closely. We fully agree with this, as local private actors have a significant impact on the housing market in each municipality. Therefore, they must be involved in housing policy work in the municipalities. As I said, this proposal considers that the Committee should not be rejected, but attached to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1322	I am, of course, pleased to see that it is a broad desire to obtain cheap housing. I would like to have come further now, but I take note that the work of the Housing Committee is awaited. I will therefore carefully link two comments to the setting that exists. One comment is that I think you should take very seriously and very carefully what are the special administrative and administrative measures for the Husbanken to function effectively in a municipality like Oslo. Once the proposal is formulated as it has been done by my and May Britt Vihovde's side, it is built on quite a long experience. And it's not always that the looks you have, seen from the state, and like from a state council position, are always the same thing as what's right when you're trying to get the solutions from below, like this. The Council of State has called for this. So the mark that lies in the proposal to find arrangements for the House Bank in the metropolitan area of Oslo that actually captures the life situation here is our main concern, and I hope that the main issue can bear longer than the positive support we have received from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, which, on behalf of the centre, stands for these points of view in the committee's position, because I think it is well worth having it evaluated. It doesn't help to have good intentions if you don't see what's the very special and in some context for many people dramatic challenges on the housing market in the capital. My second comment is simply from this speaker's point of view to inform the case that in the urban council agreement that is now negotiated between the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right in Oslo, there is an obligation that the quarter of new production of dwellings in Oslo should be rental properties. This means that there is an obligation in the capital to ensure that people who need rental housing can get it. And it goes without saying that to achieve this requires cooperation between the municipality, the state, financial institutions like the House Bank, builders and many, many others. Therefore, I assume that the information I now provide will be included in the final work of the Housing Committee. It is important that what is now happening in the capital, and for which municipal policy has been laid, is also matched when the House Bank's arrangements are to be made to enable this to be done. Even I see it as politically important and as a pretty strong signal that the constellation between the Right and the Two Centre Parties takes on this commitment. This is not the traditional social housing structure, but it is cheap housing for people who are either in an establishment phase, in a particularly difficult life situation where income is low, or simply newly separated or separated, as many in Norway are, to have a chance. So it's simply to take advantage of market opportunities, take advantage of the situation that exists when many entrepreneurs will contribute. But it requires the House Bank to set up. With these points of view, which I think will be important for the final work of the Committee on Housing, I would like to put this forward in the Chamber. I also believe that it should be seen by the Council of State as a return receipt from people who bear political responsibility in the capital, that one is willing to take a thank-you and stand up. It should also be a positive example for other parts of the country, where I know that it happens a lot. But here it's a concrete commitment to a measure. I am pleased that such a development has taken place, and sees it in the context of what the rapporteur has also said from the Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1335	I just want to make a few comments related to the proposal. It is such that in relation to the two proposals as Document No. The 8 proposal from the two representatives of the Left includes also lists a number of measures that you think should be implemented. It is enough that very many of the measures outlined have been outlined in practice in the past and have been included in other documents, including from the former central government, from the current minister of her housing initiative and from other parties in the Grand Duchy in connection with the various processing of the documents. In total, we've dealt with these questions a number of times during this magnification period, and there are many things that are under work, among other things. has been a main step not to wait for the Housing Committee, but actually to place responsibility for the regulation and development of housing in Norway where it is to be located, namely in Municipality-Norway, where they, among others, are located. are required, or have been requested, to establish action plans and are intended to be supported. In this sense, I do not believe that the initiative taken from the Right and the centre parties in Oslo should wait until the Committee on Housing is finished. In fact, it is quite in line with the current policy adopted in Stortinget, namely that the municipalities that have established action plans and have projects should also be able to receive support. This sample will come with more long-term plans than that. For us, some of these measures are problematic, because in some areas we have e.g.: issues raised in relation to the Law on Planning and Buildings relating to simplifications. We have a slightly different approach to some of the questions, because we believe that the role of the House Bank is different from what it is today. So it's not exactly 100 pst. We believe that the House Bank will no longer be involved in building loans in the traditional form – entry loans – but that, on the other hand, it will be a top finance bank for first-time start-ups through agreements between the banking sector and the Husbank. We have also promoted this in a separate document No. Eight proposals. It also implies that the part of what goes on in owner-occupied or first-time dwellings for ownership for young people should no longer be a municipal responsibility to contribute to. It will also facilitate administrative resources in municipalities and it will be manageable through applications to the normal banking system. It also means that we do not, in itself, agree to establish our own offices for Oslo, and we have an independent justification for that. We want to set up the House Bank differently in the future, and we have felt the need to just point it out, since we are now involved in some remarks in the setting that may conceal that we want a slightly larger system shift compared to how the House Bank should work towards youth and towards initial start-ups. This does not mean that we do not mean that other areas, such as: the housing allowance, still to be an important part, but we want a reindeer bank for the first time start-ups and the disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1346	The left has taken a commendable initiative. They have been conducting close-up studies in the field in the capital city and are asking for the House Bank to have a separate department there. They think there's a ten-year plan to build cheap dwellings. The Central Party will request that the organisation of the House Bank towards Oslo be given special attention to in the Housing Selection, a selection to complete its work during 2001. We also have a sense of a plan over ten years, but we think it is the most sensible thing that it will also be assessed in the Bustadsvället's work. However, let me stress that the Centre Party is inexhaustible in relation to getting more housing. We have been in government for several years and have increased the size of the House Bank. We believe that the House Bank plays a very important role in the involvement of housing companies in the housing market. We're going to get back to a closer discussion of it when we deal with Right's Document No. Eight proposals. Then I would like to stress that there is a need to inform even more about the housing arrangement. We believe in greater use of the property in relation to non-contained dwellings, i.e. dwellings where the property is left standing at a change of ownership. We have faith in increased efforts when it comes to rental properties, and we have a special interest in asking for the arrangements that are being raised even more in relation to housing for the homeless. Left underlines in particular the role of municipalities as a more active organizer. Earlier today, the possibility to dispose of both public space and public buildings has been underlined. In the end, I just want to say that there's an initiative from the center government already. New initiatives have been taken by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. I see from the committee's history that several of these themes have been discussed for many years, perhaps without the result being proportionate to all the words used. Now let's hope that with what's in the 2001 budget, we can sum up that the effort has been reinforced in 2001, and then we get to work together on what the Capital Selection had to do with it. What is important when the proposal from the Left is annexed to the Protocol is that it is not rejected. We must continue together with a cross-political effort to secure more people in this country a dwelling of nocturnal standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1359	With regard to the organisation of the House Bank, we agree with the majority. We want to focus on the problems in the capital, but don't see it appropriate to organise it in a separate unit. What this proposal addresses goes straight into one of the SV's heart issues. The starting point is that the Norwegian housing market is so complex that it almost completely lacks the piece that is important for young people and people with poor advice, namely cheap rental homes. What you see now is that municipalities are gradually renting out nice apartments that were supposed to be social rentals, for rent and market rent, and act like the cleanest house sharks. Then there will be little left of the tiny housing sector we have that would help the young people and those who have poor advice. The Left's proposal is very strongly based on the fact that many cheap youth homes are to be built without subsidies. SV has no objection to doing so. We want the housing sector in general to be more reasonable. But the problem is that if you're going to reach those who really have problems, you probably don't get away from the element that you have to bring in subsidies. The left is also inside it in one of its sub-points, that e.g. free land can make a good contribution in this respect, either from the municipality or from the State. And that's some kind of subsidization. In addition, there is a need to provide grants of quite different size than many projects currently receive, if this is to reach both the group that Dørum talked about in his contribution, i.e. people who in some transitional phase need a rental dwelling that may not have a market price, and those who have more permanent poor finances and problems in coping with the general housing market. One of the important things now is to ensure that the resources in the construction industry are used to build such dwellings. You don't have to use up the few plots and the capacity we have to build luxury homes for people who are just going to climb in the hierarchy. It's not out of envy I'm saying this, but it's simply because it's necessary that we now focus on what's necessary, that's to help those who can't help themselves. That's why it's nice to hear that the new City Council in Oslo has at least focused something on this and said that a quarter of newly produced homes should be rented homes, without me quite happy to know if they should be non-profitable and have a lower price than you have in the usual rental market, because that must be the starting point if this is to be an effective tool to get a housing stock in Norway that is complex in such a way that we avoid people getting big social problems. So to one of the indents that the Left has in its proposal. They have not promoted it as a proposal, but as an indent. It is assumed that they want measures to prevent public-owned dwellings from being left empty over a long period of time. We've seen that happen in several municipalities, and it's a little incomprehensible when you know that people are in a house queue at the same time or are referred to the shelter. There may be reasons for this in some places, but it is a practice that cannot be allowed to continue. SV has also looked at this in other countries. In Denmark, for example, a law called housing law, which states that the public can enter and regulate so that one cannot have dwellings that are empty when there are people in a house queue. We're working on this. I hereby warn that we are looking at these issues and the possibility of making a concrete proposal on them. We're not ready for that, but I think the government should also look at such possibilities, because it's actually a capacity that's there and that's not being used. I don't think that's acceptable. Many of these apartments are also built with large government subsidies. They have been paid down through social assistance and people's social security contributions, and then they stand there and are not used, or the municipalities use them and demand high rents. It's in a way to speculate about resources that it wasn't supposed to speculate about, but that would just be a social benefit for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1374	I started my article in the budget debate with the story of a woman in Bergen who lives in a van. Unacceptable and unworthy in 2000! In the press areas, housing prices rise, there are not enough housing. Perhaps a better district policy can change this in the long term? In some districts, housing is rimelege, some places almost free of charge. It must be possible to build several small, reasonable public buildings. One can also encourage private developers to build rentals for the benefit of students as well as for those who have to rent. As it is today, it costs a lot in many cities to build rental units. Bodø took the consequences of it, I have been told. They needed private help to get more housing, especially to get the students houses – Bodø has been a student town. It's the crown of success; all the students get decent housing in the city, unlike for example. in Bergen, where a cow is unlikely to cost NOK 7,000 per year. month, at least in the autumn months. Oslo is our capital, and prices in recent years have risen unlikely. The House Bank is an important housing policy tool, and the Christian People's Party considered it reasonable that the organisation of the House Bank in Oslo was such that the focus on the problems was strengthened. We believe that the Left's proposal and the Centre's comments could help.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1383	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 967]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1391	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1398	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Left Party, proposal No. 4, by Anita Apelthun Säle on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 5, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 6 and 7, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 8-11, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President will first vote on the framework-independent minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1425	It concerns proposal No. 6, which is a joint proposal from the Centre Party and SV. We draw that proposal and come back to it in a separate case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1430	Proposals Nos. 8-11, from the Socialist Left Party to voting. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a plan for phase-out over 3 years, of the practice of using means of assistance to finance stays for refugees and asylum seekers in Norway.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a state housing investment company with the aim of establishing social rental housing in cooperation with municipalities, housing companies or other non-profit-making activities/foundations.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to draw up a report on recruitment for the municipal sector through the consultation system with the Local Governments’ Central Association. The notification shall be submitted to the Storting and form the basis for concrete follow-up in the budget for 2002.’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case concerning the transfer of control authorities with the hiring and hire of employees and private employment services from Aetat to the Labour Inspectorate and the necessary stepping up of control activities to ensure compliance.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1459	Proposal No. 6, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, has been withdrawn. Proposal No. 7, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a scheme to ensure that income from government lending to housing through the Husbank is returned to the customers of the Husbank through a lower interest margin to borrowers secured by the Fund against household losses or similar arrangements. Income is made available in addition to this to increase grant items under Chapter. 581.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1475	Proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government in the budget for 2002 to propose a transfer of funds under the housing aid scheme in the event of a gradual winding-up of the transitional system and a corresponding escalation of the boute tax ceiling.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1489	Proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to launch a thorough review of the effects of the changes in the income system for municipalities. Its results are presented in the 2002 Community Economic Proposition.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1503	Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Right, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a review of compensation to the municipalities for the investments related to Reform 97, with particular attention to the remaining disputes with some municipalities in the context of the 2002 Community Economic Proposition.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1517	Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State asks the Government of the 2002 MoU to submit proposals to compensate the municipalities of Arendal, Fredrikstad, Hamar and Larvik for the loss of basic grants for a further 3 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e1531	The proposal for a decision in the framework area 6 shall then be put to the vote. There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e5837	We then vote on the proposal for a framework-independent decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e5848	Here the Workers' Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e5875	It is then votered over the frame area 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e6322	In the first line of the option, it reads ‘2001’. It shall be addressed to ‘2000’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-05.ana.ud2603e6591	There is no record.
