ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e24	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e31	Size treated last year St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99, which concluded an almost year-long discussion in order to clarify the power requirements of the powerful industry. Over several years, there was great impatience in clarifying these conditions. When the Stortinget finally received a proposal from the Bondevik Government, the Committee had some doubts as to whether this was sustainable in relation to the rules of the EEA Agreement. The Committee received letters from the then State Council Anne Enger Lahnstein with assurances that the proposal was sustainable in relation to the works of agreement. In addition to the letter, the Council of State also stated in the debate that she was not in doubt that the government was in favour of the arrangement was ‘within the EEA Agreement’. Governments repeated the same in a later article. Within this framework, the Committee examined the matter and made some changes to facilitate the transition to a new power pricing regime which was somewhat simpler for businesses. The amendments made by the Committee have not yet been commented on by ESA. The matter we are now dealing with, St.prp. No 78 for 1999-2000, the ESA objects to early agreements at a very low price being concluded, terminated and entered into the new system and provides a lower price for the new contract period than the market price. To meet this, the Ministry proposes some changes, including: to allow the existing contracts to expire before the entry into force of new contracts. This is of marginal importance for businesses, and it is only SV in the Committee who believe that the case should be postponed because we have had little time to deal with it. In order not to make the uncertainty greater than is necessary for enterprises, and since the Committee considers that there is only a marginal change, the majority of the Committee would recommend the proposal. It is also a point for the Committee to avoid ESA going into a formal case on this matter. We have seen that there are divided opinions in the industry about the consequences of new, long rounds, where time goes by and the uncertainty continues. The Committee concludes that the matter is of relatively small importance. Therefore, we will not spread any new uncertainty about this and will recommend the proposal of the Government. New questions have also been raised in this round about the leases between the Tyssefallen and Statkraft. The Committee is of the opinion that these agreements are to be concluded on the same terms as the other agreements and that the Committee has received assurances from the State Council that the matter is being closely followed. It's a big deal for the companies in Odda, a big deal for the community. A lot is at stake, and a clarification is necessary. Finally, I would also like to stress that in the case of the Western Norse Industristadmuseum, 10 million are to be paid. kr on a fund from 2001. This was also the premise when the Stortinge dealt with the budget of the year. It must be established, even if the time of the conclusion of the leases is postponed somewhat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e54	The case we are dealing with today is, in fact, an adjustment to the industrial power regime that the Stortinge was dealing with last year, but that needs to be changed now after ESA has made its assessments of this regime. The representative Hegna has already mentioned this. However, I would like to remind you of both warnings and suggestions from the Progress Party and the Right when the matter was dealt with last year, just to avoid the situation we are now facing. We then proposed to return the industrial power proposition to the government in order to clarify ahead of time the ESA principles for the award of power contracts, and then come back to the Storting in the autumn of 1999. This, however, was downgraded. The changes that have now been made and that are in line with ESA's assessments are not significant, but in a transitional phase they may seem somewhat brutal to some. Over time, however, this will be even. I am pleased that a large majority of the committee is behind the vote and that the committee has acted quickly so that we can rectify the decision that has been taken and put in place a new regime as soon as possible. However, we have recorded some disagreement between Statkraft and the Germans on certain aspects of the interpretation of our previous decisions, and that the ministry will decide on these points of dispute. The majority of the Committee shall state in its opinion that they will follow the matter closely. In the light of this, I would like to challenge the Council of State whether the Department has made its assessments and taken a position on these points of dispute, whether he can provide us with information on developments in the matter, or whether he can possibly say something about the time perspective for resolving this dispute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e67	A year ago, Stortinget treated St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99, About Industrial Contracts and Leases of State Power. Then the Stortinget went in for the main features of the central government proposal. The biggest concern was that the industrial power regime should be within the framework of the EEA Agreement, which was also the subject of the representative Hegna – the rapporteur of the case. The proposal from the central government was an acceptable offer to the industry and initially a balanced regime in relation to which we saw that the EEA rules were to be interpreted. So you got the reaction from ESA. The proposal for changes to the industrial power regime now presented to the Storting is initially leading to a worse solution for several of the companies. This is not a desired situation. The proposal to repeal the termination condition leads to ESA’s objections being taken into account. But it also leads to a more difficult transition for some of the companies that today have different conditions. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we do not agree that this is a marginal change, as the representative Hegna indicated. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believed that it should have been possible to spend some more time on this matter and possibly go some extra rounds to get a more satisfactory solution. However, through questions to the Council of State, we have been told that this would be very problematic. At that time, prices would probably have to be increased for the companies concerned. This means that we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, will nevertheless support the proposal as it has been presented, and we have joined the majority in this matter. With regard to the leases for the Tysse Falls, the majority has referred to the position on the industrial power regime and to the budget position for this year. The Christian People's Party has also noticed that the ministry has received letters from the State Power and the AS Noise Cases on the matter of which there is a disagreement. In line with the position, we expect the Department to take a position on the points of dispute. This is where it has to be cut. When this question was last raised in Stortinget in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 52, one of the prerequisites for setting up the leases was that there should be no difference between renting and owning, and that this in itself went into one. Leases are pointless if they are not to result in improved arrangements and conditions in relation to what would have been the case with purely commercial or market-based solutions. In the Christian People's Party, we therefore assume that in the further consideration of the matter, the Council of State follows up the Storting's intentions – and so they are better conditions, conditions that can correspond to ownership. I expect the Council of State in its speech today to confirm that he will ensure that Storting's intentions are respected. From Stortinget's side, we will follow the matter carefully, as we have said in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e78	It's true, as several speakers have said, that there was a lot of discussion when we dealt with St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99. There were many reactions from industry, which considered that the price was too high, and there was also an uncertainty as to whether the contracts were robust enough in relation to the competition authority ESA. Just as the Progress Party has underlined in this debate, the Right wanted to send St. prp. No 52 back, precisely because we were aware at the time that it was uncertain whether the contracts were robust enough in relation to our obligations under the EEA Agreement. We didn't get through to that. However, in the light of the assurances given that this would be done, the Right gave its subsidiary support to the proposals contained in St.prp. No 52. In retrospect, it has been shown that they were not robust enough, and an adjustment must now be made. We also believe that it is important to limit uncertainty and that it underlines the need for rapid treatment. If this case had been postponed, it would have created an impression that there was a basis for a rematch, which we know is not under the conditions we have to stay within. I am not going to repeat what has now been said about Tyssefallen and the discussion and disagreement that has been in this connection, but I would like to stress that from the Right we wanted to go primarily for a choice of our own, in other words that it would be possible to buy the power plants back. At that time it was very stressed that the difference in ownership and rental was very marginal. In the interpretation used by Statkraft, there is no marginal difference between the rental and ownership options. Rather, there will be a marginal difference between an ordinary power contract and the rental option. At least I agree with what has been said – that there must be operational rights for the tenant, and that must apply to both power and power generation, so that the Storting's intentions are followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e91	Government industrial contracts and lease agreements remain on the Stortingen agenda because the EFTA Surveillance Authority claims that there may be a State aid element in the agreements. The government has rightly refuted allegations of illegal state aid, but finds it unwise to engage in long-term legal proceedings. It's a little bit of a problem. To put it simply, if the dispute is pursued, the winnings will be able to go spin-off. This conclusion is all reason to end. The contracts and agreements in question constitute a power regime capable of securing parts of the Norwegian industry's energy supply based on long-term solid conditions. Quite rightly, it may seem as a cross of thought that agreements are concluded for a period of low market prices. But this is a classic problem, where the short term is measured up to the long term. Until now, it has been an accepted way of thinking that it may be beneficial for industry to pay for long-term energy security. As a result, industry can also benefit from short-term but favourable purchases of power in the market. It is now up to the industrial companies to decide on the contracts. ESA interference has not been rocked by the realities of the force regime. It is therefore not the case, as stated in the comment from SV, that the ESA's treason to go into the matter has completely reversed a staging proposition that was handled in the Storting less than one year ago. The SV problem issue has been raised, and it must be in order to be able to build up under a requirement to spend a longer time discussing the situation after the ESA intervened. The context here is so obvious that there is no need for SV to stand alone in the Committee with its comments. In fact, SV can show that there are some requirements for postponing the case, mostly from trade unions. This is not surprising, because debates about power regimes are strongly engaged in some areas of the country. The question is about jobs and local communities. But it seemed that there was a major deal about the procedure that the Government has taken advantage of in the current situation. Once the Storting has made its decision today, State power and industry must have their agreements in port until 15 September this year. This work is already in progress. And hopefully you'll be all right. But the committee is aware that the department has received letters from Statkraft as well as from A/S Tyssefallen, and the background is uncertain as to how the leases are to be understood. It is for the Ministry to decide on such disputes. When the majority in the committee will follow developments closely, as it says in the setting, it is because we believe that there should not be any doubt that lease agreements contain operational rights for the lessee – I am thinking of power and power generation – and that the lease agreements are fundamentally different from power contracts. I refer to what was said by the representatives Frafjord Johnson and Sanner at this point. I would also like to refer to the representative Hegna said about the payment of funds for the museum project in Tyssedal. It is, of course, a part of the agreements to be implemented. I agree entirely with the representative Hegna said at this point. Finally, I know the need to be told that it is premature to experience that the EFTA Surveillance Authority has intervened in a case like this. Norway has a solid point of view, and our arguments are good. Nevertheless, it seems that the keen ESA here will demonstrate its power. It's happened before. And every time this happens, we get a reminder that through the EEA Agreement, we will learn what it means to become involved in the EU's democratic deficit, as EU spokespersons themselves characterise the state. At this point, cork SV or the Senterpartie have some historical debts, at least it is satisfactory to note it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e108	To this extent, it is right that the representative John Dale said in relation to the EEA Agreement. But I think it's a little strange that the centre party is still willing to lay down its ground for ESA in this matter. I have to say, I'm a little surprised. So to Hegna and to the extent that the Labour Party and the Center Party, which is concerned that SV as well are the only ones that point to etc. The problem of democracy in this matter. Yeah, inside this house it's like this. But Hegna, as an old member of Norwegian Chemical, knows very well what Norwegian Chemical has said about this. They have simply stated that they want a postponement of the matter. And I'm surprised that workers' party people who used to stand on the barricades for that union forget about it when they end up inside the walls here. It's amazing, ask me. The reality is that the majority in Stortinget, when they concluded the EEA agreement, against the Senterpartiet and SV’s voices, said that we have full autonomy over most things, but practice shows something quite different. Working oil and energy ministers at the time told the committee that one didn't have to touch too much of these things, and that one didn't have to decide too much about these things here, because then an ESA got on the neck. Actually, you didn't have to do anything about the things the government put forward, because then there would be trouble. And then there was a fight anyway. Right of self-determination and self-determination, Mrs. Blom! There's not much of it in this case. That would be a shame if everyone in the committee, except SV, only said that we have to do this quickly, we should not challenge ESA, and we should not enter into a process in relation to it. We kind of accept that we've lost our right to self-determination in this area. Not least wonder that the Central Party appears to be on that track. For SV, this is primarily a matter of saying that Norwegian democracy works when no other democracy works. It is primarily a matter of saying that trade unions and groups who want to express themselves on this matter are able to do so. The majority say that it is not necessary for the trade unions to comment on this, even if they ask for it. So the majority say that all trade unions and those who want to comment on this, really don't know what they're talking about. The reason why SV wants to spend more time on this matter is that we will be able to get into matter properly and systematically so that those who want to comment on it will be able to do so. We note that that proposal will only get its votes, but that does not mean that we do not take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e123	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e126	The representative of Langeland took the position of the trade unions at the companies involved in the matter that we are now discussing, and there is probably the main problem that the choice made by Stortinget when this case was dealt with last year was at a considerable distance from what the trade union wanted. And I'm experiencing what's happening right now, first and foremost as a repeated expression of it. The difference between the decision last year and the result we are now getting, with the adjustment to be made, is not large. I feel that the adjustment is to live with for the actors involved, that one does not in total change the framework conditions significantly. The left has no objections to the Government's handling of this matter. We believe that the option would be deferrals and adjustments that would be detrimental to those who are now waiting for this matter to be resolved. I would also like to add that I believe that the round that is now going with ESA confirms that the government met well when one built up the power regime that we were invited to attend and discuss last year, and that got broad support in the Stortinget. I actually see that the use of words like language, the loss of maritime law and cowardice, which Langeland used, is very bad in relation to the realities of the matter. I would also like to add that the regime we now receive is very similar to the vision left over a long time in terms of power regimes and power prices for this part of our industry, and it is gratifying that this view has now gained broad support in the Stortinget. In conclusion, I add that the views expressed in relation to State Power and the rental contracts of the Germans are also shared by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e141	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Committee and the Stortinge have taken the time to deal with this matter, in spite of short deadlines. The Ministry of Oil and Energy received a letter from ESA on 12 May this year on their views on this matter, so it was not possible for the Department and Government to present this matter to the Stortinget before. After the Stortinget treats St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99, 18 enterprises were offered long-term power contracts last summer until 2020. In addition, the industry was offered new leases for the Sauda River Strip, Tysso II in Odda and Svelgen I and II in Bremen until 2030. 2 June this year, the Government presented a proposal for changes to the terms and conditions of these agreements. I would like to make it clear that this proposal is only a minor adjustment to the size decided last summer. EFTA’s monitoring body, ESA, has been in contact with the Ministry several times as a result of a complaint against industrial contracts and lease agreements from the environmental foundation Bellona. Bellona claimed that the new agreements contained unlawful State aid and were therefore contrary to the EEA Agreement. The Ministry has provided ESA with additional information about these agreements. ESA has now concluded, with one exception, that it is not contrary to the EEA Agreement to conclude long-term power contracts in line with its decision of last summer, the so-called 52 contracts. The 52 agreements contain several conditions. One of the conditions is that companies must conclude old contracts under authority terms with Statkraft. The value of the old contracts is taken into account in the price of the new 52 contracts. The ESA believes that this condition, and the prices that follow from it, can lead to the new State Power agreements containing illegal state aid. ESA writes in a letter to the Department that they will open a case if Government and industry enter into contracts and leases where this condition is included. The government does not agree with ESA, but believes that the conclusion of the old agreements is only a technical conversion of the economic rights that companies have acquired over several years. The government has however chosen to submit proposals to remove this condition. We don't want to enter a long and uncertain process with ESA. Industry, communities and State power are best served by rapid clarification of long-term power conditions. A case with ESA would postpone the whole process indefinitely. The government's proposal means that the old agreements remain unchanged until they expire between 2004 and 2010. Most of the new agreements will now be phased in when the old agreements expire. The price of the new agreements would be higher than if the terms and conditions of the old agreements were maintained. On the other hand, companies will now benefit from the fact that the old agreements will not be changed. For those companies that do not have old contracts with Statkraft, the proposal from last summer will not be changed. The deadline for concluding the 52 agreements was not until 1 July of this year. As a result of the adjustment, I have proposed to postpone the deadline of 15 September, so that the companies and Statkraft could have some time to evaluate the changes. With these changes, I get a final clarification on the long-term contracts, which I see as a great advantage for those involved. When it comes to leases, it has always been a requirement for the negotiating parties to become a few. There must be a target that is still on layers. However, as I pointed out in the letter of 8 June, if no agreement is reached, the Germans and Statkraft may ask for important points of dispute to be dealt with by the Ministry. The ministry has now received letters from both Statkraft and AS Tyssefallen where they deal with relationships they disagree about. The ministry has not yet intervened in the content of these messages. But I can promise that a thorough job will be done, first to see if the department can participate in the conciliation between the parties, and – if necessary – before the department finally takes a decision. I have chosen the Committee's comment on this point, and will continue to place great emphasis on the signals from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e176	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e179	I must first correct something that must be an obvious misunderstanding from SV. Langeland claimed that Hegna was an old member of Norwegian Chemical. There must be an obvious misunderstanding. The representative Hegna is a relatively young member of Norwegian Chemical. But to the issue of the EEA Agreement, as SV draws it up. I am not going to add up to any debate on the EEA, but in the choice between an EEA agreement and the uncertainty of past times about issues relating to subsidies and penalties, there is no doubt that both Norsk Chemical and industry are choosing an EEA agreement, with the limitations it has. So to what Langeland brought up, that no one has been heard. The ratio is that at least I, as the rapporteur, have met with almost all the companies that are being affected. We had a full round last year of hearings with all the companies and more. So what is the Committee's opinion is that postponing the case for a new round creates more uncertainty than the case deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e188	I am sorry that I described a representative who is even younger than myself, as old. But the point was that I thought that when one had been in a trade union and worked actively there, one would like to try to fulfill some of the ideas that that trade union had, and that was what I miss. Nor can Bent Hegna doubt what stands out from the Norwegian Chemical Committee; it is easy to say that Norwegian Chemically asks the Energy and Environmental Committee to suspend the treatment of St.prp. No Seventy-eight. For me it's quite clear speech and impossible to misunderstand, you ask me. But Hegna, the Worker's Party, and the big numbers, well, to ignore the professional advice they get.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e193	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox The President must commend the Committee for a structured and disciplined review of the matter, and hope that the good spirit will continue in the coming matters. [[Footing, see page 3656]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e209	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3656]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e223	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e230	I take the word to a brief comment on this matter. The conclusion is that Document No: 8:56 is rejected. This is due to a letter from the Ministry, which, in my opinion, argues well that there is no basis for replacing the members of Statoil's board chosen by the General Assembly. The government states that it will carry out a more detailed assessment of whether it would be advisable to introduce guidelines for the addition of persons to the lease in whole companies. This last moment captures the contents of proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, so that the proposal can be drawn in favour. But then I read the comments from representatives Korsberg and Waksdal and notice that the Progress Party's foundation to replace Statoil's rule is somewhat unclear. Representatives refer to the lack of competence both at present and in the past in terms of salaries and parachutes for leaders in the company. The former board was replaced, but when the new board also moves forward with its payroll and pension agreements, unaffected by the hopeless signal effect, the new board should also go. That makes sense. Fortunately, memory is not as short as we often imagine, and at least something better than its reputation. I think well when the old board went and the new one came. The shift had nothing to do with Statoil's leaders' wages. The large exceedances of money in the North Sea updated fresh forces on the board and provided a need to show responsibility for a less fortunate development. The center administration was responsible for the refurbishment, well supported by Stortinget. At the time, questions were raised as to whether the board was competent enough. Today, there is no reason to claim that Statoil’s board of directors does not have the competence to operate the company in the future. There seemed to be such a claim in proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party. Of course, it is far too early to pass judgment on the new regime. On the other hand, it is a fact that the board has been criticised for its wage policy. It is a matter of its own, and it does not necessarily affect the job that the Board of Directors is set to do for Statoil and the Norwegian State. And in the light of the general reaction of incomprehensible mercenaries and parachutes to the Norwegian people, the Council of State has now notified the Committee – and I refer again to the letter of 30 May this year – that certain measures are in progress. I thought it was important to focus on the payroll and the signal effect they have. Today, Stortinget has been discussing the dithering message, and it is clear that there is a context here. But there's a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin, as it's popularly called. In my opinion, the Council of State has acted sensibly in this matter, and he is still far away from the situation of the central government, which led to the alarming change of government in Statoil. Should developments re-update the question of competence, we must hope that it will always have the capacity to act effectively, and that the actions are appropriate to the problems involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e249	The recent public debate on parachutes, after-sales and pension agreements for business leaders has focused on what I would call an unculture in business that, at my discretion, gives very negative signals to the general formation of wages in society and undermines both social morality and the understanding of moderation in wage making. However, there is little to do in this house to stop this development in private business other than to make recommendations and recommendations. However, it can be expected that the board of a limited liability company will put itself in a very poor light if they manage the values of shareholders in an adverse way, and they must therefore be prepared to take the consequences. In whole state companies, however, there is accumulation and government exercising ownership on behalf of the real owners, the Norwegian people. It is therefore our clear duty to respond if we see that ownership is managed in a way that is detrimental to the owners. When it became known in March that Statoil's former group manager had a parachute which, according to Dagbladet, could amount to 40 million. Therefore, I reacted immediately and brought this up with the Minister of Oil and Energy in the Questionnaire on 29 March, where I asked if he agreed with the criticism that had been raised that a whole-time state company should have such agreements, and what he, as a general assembly in Statoil, would do to clean up these matters. However, the response from the government council was both surprising and disappointing. He would not do anything on the occasion of the case at all, and he actually confirmed that it was the Statoil government that would have all the power, and that the State that owns would not interfere in the operation of the company or provide guidelines for the company's operations. Against this background, it is totally incomprehensible to me that the Workers' Party has for so long considered Statoil to be a full-time state company, precisely because, as they have claimed, such ownership must ensure the necessary social control of the company. That's the exact opposite of what happens in the company. The board of directors, which in this case has shown a total lack of track record as to where the board's loyalty is to be located, and which is acting grossly irresponsible and contrary to all social morality, may continue as if nothing had happened – with the blessing of the Government and the majority of the population. The Prime Minister also holds his protective hand over the government of Statoil. At one moment he says that the board has acted unwisely, and that high management wage increases and parachutes give unfortunate signals of the formation of wages for the rest, while at the next moment he says he has full confidence in the board. Understand the one who can. In his speech last week in Bergen, the Prime Minister said, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Political influence only occurs when we formulate a policy for today’s challenges. Therefore, we should be the first to say from when the differences increase, when the leaders of society look loose from the social contract of moderation and grant themselves parachutes and back salaries that people cannot understand." This is, of course, contrary to the government's conduct in this matter. Here the government had an excellent chance to show that one meant something with what one said, but no then, the government is sitting with its hands in the prisoner and doing absolutely nothing at all. The Progress Party understands that Statoil, in competition with other companies, must have good employment and pay agreements in order to attract skilled managers, but in our opinion this agreement goes far beyond what is common in the business world. We also consider it pointless that a government in a company owned by the state should be completely exempt from control by its owners. We are of the clear opinion that the management board's conduct in this matter shows that the board does not have the necessary competence and loyalty required, and that the board must therefore be replaced. We also propose that the Government introduce guidelines on employment conditions for people in the management of whole-time state companies, as the Minister for Oil and Energy also opened up in his letter of 30 May, and I therefore expect his party to be involved in ensuring the majority of this proposal. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to raise the following motions for resolutions. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e282	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e287	I must say in amazement that representatives from other parties do not take the floor on this matter. I understand that Statoil, in competition with other companies, must have good pay and employment agreements in order to attract skilled managers. The establishment of a right of the Board of Directors to cancel the head of the group against a remuneration of one to two years' wages is acceptable in order to avoid legal proceedings relating to the dismissal, and to avoid any requirement to remain in office while the case is in the legal system. Such remuneration is payment for the discharge of any legal action and for the mutual benefit of both parties. That Statoil government has done in this matter, is miles away from common sense. The fact that the Statoil Board has negotiated an agreement that gives the group manager a high salary up to retirement age, which is in six to seven years' time, and then a sky-high pension – and that to a group manager who himself resigns – is totally incomprehensible to me. What Statoil's government has done is hair travelers and a mockery of ordinary workers, especially when it comes to a whole-time state enterprise. In this context, I will refer to what Prime Minister Stoltenberg said in his speech in Bergen on June 6th this year: ‘That is why we shall be the first to say from when the differences increase, when the leaders of society look loose from the social contract of moderation, and grant themselves parachutes and back salaries in sizes that people cannot understand.’ I hope the State Council will come up to the pulpit and explain to me where the limit goes with regard to the size of parachutes and subsidies in the state. I hope that Aksensen takes the trouble to do that. I think most people have big problems understanding morals here. I think ordinary workers have a lot of problems in realizing that they have to show moderation in pay settlement when LO leader Yngve Hågensen is in a state government and is contributing to a sky-high remuneration and pension of about 40 million. kr. In my view, the LO leader, Ynge Hågensen, must lack complete credibility in his own ranks after having participated in the design of such an agreement. The fact that the former group manager has subsequently dismissed part of the agreement indicates in my view the unfairness of the agreement. But it does not at all relieve the board of directors of any responsibility for what has happened. The argument that Statoil should be owned by the State has been used by some political groups because the State that owns must ensure socially sound management of the company. The government of Statoil has operated in this matter, is the very opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e306	I think, like my party traps, that there is something remarkable about this matter, something strange that has crept into Norwegian political debate. Political leaders – at least for the moment in the Government and in the Workers' Party – can give long lectures outside this room and get praise from a wide range of people, and indeed from the media. And of many newspapers you can get praise in leadership for what you say. Then you would think that it is serious meant what is said, but here's one thing where it turns out that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg preaches outside this hall, is not really something to be taken seriously. And I think it's creepy when we see more and more examples of the Prime Minister's lack of credibility. I think it's a serious problem, and it's revealed here. The Prime Minister said in his – at least in some media – ‘large’ speech in Bergen on 6 June 2000 among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘That is why we shall be the first to say from when the differences increase, when the leaders of society look loose from the social contract of moderation, and grant themselves parachutes and back salaries in sizes that people cannot understand.’ Prime Minister Stoltenberg says that they – the Government and the Labour Party – should be the first to say from. But there is nothing more! And when we then make concrete proposals to follow up what the Prime Minister has also said in the past, it is being countered by the Workers' Party. I don't understand that the government doesn't see that this is going to be a credibility problem. In his letter to the Committee, the Minister for Oil and Energy wrote: ‘The government will consider whether it would be appropriate to introduce guidelines on the conditions for the admission of persons to the lease in whole state companies. One is aware that such a scheme is practised in Sweden.’ The fact that the government will consider something does not matter! I mean – it's a lot of nice a government assessor. And I don't understand John Dale when he says that there is no need for suggestions because the government is considering something. There are then a lot of examples of the Centre Party promoting proposals in this House knowing that the Government is considering a question. So that the government is considering something, it's totally uninteresting. What's interesting is what the outcome of the assessment is, and what the government's conclusion is. I want to ask the oil and energy minister to tell us what kind of results he has achieved after his assessment of this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e328	I shall try to limit the frustration of the Progress Party to the fact that no one else is involved in the matter. It is easy that SV has also been very concerned about these issues, and we have repeatedly raised the issue in this Chamber and been frustrated that it has our missing initiatives from the general assembly of state companies, whether it is Statoil, State Power or others, with regard to using the governing right that one actually has. I think the Progress Party's criticism is getting a little bit hollow. Because, as Mr. Waksdal said, there's little to do with the private, but with the state, we can do something. Well, so in private they can only continue with their cultures, it doesn't bother the Progress Party at all. Of course, a person can do something with those in the private sector if he wants to, but it's not the Progress Party's policy to do it. It is the Progress Party's policy to allow it to float freely and to have the least possible tax and leave it to options if it helps the market. Then it becomes a little hollow when a person comes up with a proper criticism of state ownership and lack of governance with regard to rents, when a next time wants to privatize this company just to stimulate such a culture. I think it's important that one in such matters as one had in connection with Statoil's government, not just asking to throw the board, but doing what's under this proposal from the Progress Party, simply distrusts the general assembly that doesn't clean up its house, because that's actually what one should do to the seventh and the last if one thinks it's as strong as it seems. SV considers supporting the proposal of the Progress Party No. 2, if the Council of State is not very clear that this is a problem that one is now working seriously on, for example. based on the Swedish model that several speakers here have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e341	I just want to repeat to the representative Langeland that in the Progress Party, unlike SV, we have learned the difference between you and mine. And it's as the owner of Statoil that we're responding here. I understand that Langeland cannot see the difference between the government taxpayers' money that we are going to manage, and the private people's money that they invest in the companies they themselves want. The fact that shareholders of private companies are stupid about their money and do not claim their governments is their problem. We respect that people do with their money as they want, and we respect that if they want to be stupid and kind and don't make demands on their bosses and throw around with parachutes and executives, that's not our problem. It's their problem, it's their money. But here we represent the taxpayers, who are owners via the accumulation and government of Statoil, and that's as the role we react to. We react to not following what you say, because we can do that to whole-time state companies. And it's clear that all that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and other politicians from other parties say about unculture and that you have to show moderation and not reward people who even quit their jobs with two years of pay and favourable pension schemes fall on stone's floor. There is certainly no one who is empty on the lid of the eye about Prime Minister Stoltenberg putting on pathos and preaching moderation, when he de facto approves exactly the same in a whole-time state company. The problem is, instead of going ahead with a good example, you ruin the whole thing, maybe a little reasonable moral fight against the unculture, goes ahead with a bad example. That's what makes us engaged. There's no reason to make any mistrust proposals, because it was the previous government that put up for this, but the new government has joined it. So we're trying to get a majority to give a directive to the government, because the government of Statoil didn't realize that they had done anything wrong, they defended the system. I have no problem seeing the need for a system in which the board resigns a person in order to get rid of legal proceedings and demand to stand in the position while the case is in progress, but when he resigns himself, and so you should have in the contract that it is normal cancellation time, you get huge money – it is completely meaningless. So in the end, I think it's a little surprising that when the oil and energy minister writes a letter to the committee and says he evaluates something, and gets concrete questions in the staging room about whether he's finished his assessment and can inform the Storting the result of his assessment, he's silent. It is generally polite for governments to answer specific questions, but it is the Council of State itself who, of course, sovereignly decides whether to answer questions or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e354	I found it necessary to take the word once more relative to the rhetorical point of yours and mine. Then one might also say that the Progress Party will privatize Statoil, which we all own and which is ours, and which one will light up to private, is also a kind of foreshadowment from the Progress Party's side, in the same way that I interpret what Hagen said to me. The problem with respect to what I said in my post is that Waksdal said it is not possible to do anything with private companies. But the Progress Party must agree that if you want to create a tax system that is fairer, you can do it if you want to, it's just a question of political will. But we are aware that the will to do something about inequality in society and to do something that creates a more fair and equal society is not present in the Progress Party. It's okay. But it's a question of doing something, that's the point. And then it's not possible to say that we can't do anything with private companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e361	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3656]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e375	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e384	We are now considering a proposal from the SV for an independent study on whether Norwegian gas power stations will reduce European CO2 emissions during their lifetime. Claims that the construction of Norwegian gas power plants will reduce total Nordic greenhouse gas emissions have been central to the debate on gas power plants. This is therefore crucial to determine whether it is an environmentally friendly measure to build gas power stations or not. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Progress Party, do not support the proposal. The proposal is therefore rejected by Stortinget. Given the past, these batches can hardly be said to be particularly concerned with gas power plants from an environmental point of view. There seems to be completely different interests that dominate. It is therefore not necessarily alarming that these batches do not support an investigation that can determine the overall impact of the gas power plants on CO2 emissions throughout their lifetime. On the other hand, it is more worrying that the majority has not taken the liberty of presenting one single argument to reject the proposal. I'll describe that as something close to arrogance. If this is a signal in the way that the majority will deal with the gas power issue in the future, then I'm worried. If the majority is so convinced that gas power stations are an environmentally friendly measure that they are willing to throw down a government and in addition to change the pollution law to increase Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, it would probably not be a problem to contribute to the majority of a study that may confirm the argument for lower total emissions. The eager representatives of the respective parties have demonstrated that they are seeking to demonstrate such claims, would suggest that such an investigation was without fear and with equal eagerness. In the light of the Committee's consideration and the letter from the relevant state councils on the occasion of this proposal, we know little about what the majority is basing its rejection on. We have also noticed that the Government is unable to respond to whether the terms of the emissions permits of the Norwegian gas power plants can be changed without changing the pollution law. Although in the additional message, St.meld. No 33 for 1999-2000, it is claimed that this is possible, it is quite different from the answers given by the Ministry to the Committee. Here we can see that the assumptions that this is the case can only be clarified after a more detailed procedure. This cannot be seen as a follow-up to the Storting decision to clarify before 1 June. Based on the opinion of the Legal Department of 6 March, a reduction in the total emissions is central to whether or not the construction of gas power plants can be permitted without amending the pollution law, whether legal or not. The analyses carried out so far by the professional bodies, SFT and NVE are uncertain and marked by certain assumptions. Therefore, the minority considers that a study as proposed by SV will contribute to a better decision-making basis. In view of this, it is strange that the majority did not provide a single justification for the rejection. You just ignore it. The rest of us can just wonder why. Either you realize that you have a bad case in relation to your opinion and therefore want to have a minimum of debate and attention and as little as possible in the press release to follow the case – or you realize that you have a bad case in substance. It would be embarrassing if such a study punctured the majority’s arguments in the gas power debate — or perhaps it is a combination. In any case, it's pretty revealing. We also record that the answers given by the Government in dealing with both this case and another matter that we have to deal with in the committee may give the impression that one here actually operates with a large-scale training. It will not be clear until the autumn whether the emissions permits can be converted within the law. If the law has to be amended, it will take time. We therefore record that the Government seems to train its own decision. Of course, this is joyous for the environment – we can avoid the construction of gas power plants. But it's hard to understand why others later to be so very satisfied with the Council's answer. If a government is to have any credibility and to emerge with a consistent policy from one day, week and month to month, it must keep its word and follow up the decision making process. One could at least expect one to follow up his own decision on the accumulation. We expect the government to give the Storting a real answer, and we expect the majority to be able to come up with a reason for their rejection of this excellent SV proposal. In any case, we must ensure that this matter is given the attention it deserves. We will have many new occasions after this debate. It's about following up international agreements, it's about credibility and it's about implementing an energy and environmental policy that can contribute to sustainable development, and that can help prevent the climate change that I hope the Storting is united to want to avoid. I will, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e414	Hilde Frafjord Johnson has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e417	On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to refer to the debate in connection with the debate on the Innst. S. No 122 for 1999-2000 and St. meld. No 29 for 1998-99 on energy policy, with a broad majority in favour of the construction of gas power plants and a change in the emission conditions laid down for gas power plants. The reason for this was that the conditions imposed by the permits were so extensive that the administration actually put a preliminary stop to the construction of gas power plants in Norway. The majority pointed out that the impact of the conditions of the emission permits granted would actually increase pollution. It is not my intention to raise any debate in connection with this Document No. The 8 proposal, but I would nevertheless like to remind you that the majority felt that the construction of gas power plants would bring significant environmental benefits and would reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, I would like to remind you of the SINTEF consultation opinions to the Committee, where they say, ‘No to gas power stations are causing paradoxical increases in CO2 emissions’. The State pollution control body also presented material in the consultation with the Committee confirming that CO2 emissions will be lower if gas power plants are built in Norway than if gas power plants are not built. I also point out that in the context of the concession treatment of the natural force application, the NVE concluded that the total CO2 emissions in the Nordic region would decrease in the development of gas power plants. So here, three different institutions, Sintef, NVE and SFT, have come to the same conclusion independently of each other. I therefore believe that we have a good decision-making basis and do not believe that the conclusions would be different with even more investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e435	The inclusion of CO2 in the concept of ‘gas’ in the pollution law was, in effect, established by the government of Jagland, which referred the applications for CO2 emissions for treatment in the State pollution control system pursuant to the pollution legislation. This was done despite the fact that CO2 emissions are not harmful for either humans, animals or plants – not for any kind of life. This decision has been firmly established and results in problems for sensible industrial projects such as the construction of gas power plants. In our view, it is completely misleading to characterize emissions of CO2 as pollution of the atmosphere, as some sources suggest. That's like 97 pst. of the global emissions of CO2 come from nature itself. In the view of the Progress Party, there is no doubt whatsoever that the construction and use of gas power plants in Norway will lead to a reduction in electricity imports from other countries. When it is known that electricity imported into Norway from countries such as Denmark or Poland is produced by coal, it is completely incomprehensible to us in the Progress Party that there is a need to investigate whether European CO2 emissions are falling. It must be quite obvious to me. It should be in everyone’s interest to use Norwegian gas in Norway, which also means that we avoid importing highly polluting coal power from other countries. In addition to increased value creation in Norway and the limitations of an enormous energy loss that we will have as a result of the transport of power over long distances, this is clearly beneficial for Norway. We therefore see no intention of supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e442	At first I thought there was a need for a rematch that now drove the centre parties and SV to this debate and they announced proposals in the gas power case, but I think this is starting to remind me of a bad reprisal. I dare remember that the discussion that is now being drawn up has been taking place in Stortinget for one year. I don't think the debate that is now being drawn up is going to bring the parties something particularly closer to each other. I'm tracking Frafjord Johnson calling for arguments. My experience from the debate we held in Stortinget for almost a year is that arguments and facts boasted like water on the goose on the gas resistors. Otherwise, let me say that I see this proposal as completely meaningless. I can't see a single argument for such an investigation to be carried out. One can almost suspect that the gas power resistors have failed to comply with the Kyoto Protocol, because the situation is that when the Kyoto Protocol enters into force, the total CO2 emissions are capped. There will be little interest in emissions increasing in the construction of gas power plants in Norway, as they will need to be compensated by mitigation measures elsewhere. It is therefore of no value whatsoever to carry out such a survey as the centre lots and SV here desire. Should one have had a study, it must have been for the few years from the construction and operation of the gas power plant until the Kyoto agreement enters into force. That was the discussion in Stortinget from May 1999 to February 2000. What we discussed was what would happen next. Then there is a ceiling set, and increased emissions somewhere, need to be reduced by compensatory measures elsewhere. I almost want to say that representatives of several parties can be suspected here because they have not been fully involved in what the Kyoto Protocol actually involves. Having said that, I would like to pay tribute to the Council of State for a neat and convincing handling of the matter so far. The size has determined that gas power stations in Norway can be built under the same conditions as in other European countries. The Ministry has concluded that there is no need to amend the pollution law. We'll take note of that. We think that is very positive, and we look forward to the further progress in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e455	Some time ago, in Stortinget City, there was an uplifting discussion about the construction of gas power plants in Norway, and the struggle was beginning to escalate into a government crisis. The majority of the majority of the population made one main argument, and it was that Norwegian gas power plants would reduce European CO2 emissions, so that gas power and good environmental policy would become one side of the same thing. It was a model of harmony that was created. But did the argument stand up? Could it rightly be argued that Norwegian gas power plants would lead to a reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions? That we have gas power opponents answer no to the questions, no one surprises. The fact that the big crowd was standing on theirs is not unexpected either. There was a great political prestige attached to the question, which not only existed as a matter of its own, but was at the same time the core of a declaration of government in Norway. On this basis, it is of course not realistic to expect the conflicting parties to be able, through reasonable dialogue, to go closer to the mentioned crown argument in the sumanes. A free and relaxed conversation about the theme seemed to be unattainable, at least in the near future. The representative Jan Tore Sanner's words that we don't need any bad reprisals just illustrate that point. It argues that an independent scrutiny is the answer, just as the minority, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left propose. The independent review requirement is not justified by bombastic claims of multiple errors. The point is that there's a lot of doubt at this point. Professional analysis is not unique. The SFT indicates that it is only on very special conditions and in the short term that gas power plants in Norway will be able to give lower emissions of greenhouse gases in the Nordic region. The premise is that electricity consumption in the Nordic region does not increase and that the production of coal-fired power plants is reduced as a result of the production of Norwegian gas power. The NVE believes that gas power must specifically replace coal power if it is to have an impact on the total emissions. In the discussion of professional policy that is taking place, it is accompanied by words such as ‘if’, ‘if’ and ‘if’. Certainly there may be a need for a review of the state, made by people who have not stood the political battle too close. The springing point is this: if the establishment of gas power plants leads to large emissions of greenhouse gases without generating a corresponding reduction elsewhere, it seemed obvious that the pollution laws had to change. I refer here to the law department in the Ministry of Justice. Then it turns out that the government will now follow up the decision to raise the stakes, but without notifying promise changes. Thus, with the impression that the Government will not even agree that there is doubt that gas power stations in Norway will cause the total emissions of greenhouse gases to be reduced. It is in the case of a very bold and at the same time uncertain strategy, and a good bit for historians who will later reconstruct the situation. The alternative to this policy is to ensure that there is a realistic basis on which to build further, and therefore fasten provided from the centre and SV full support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e472	Let me first get the pink case spokesman, who has tried to do a job that turned out to be harder than she thought, because the Labour Party obviously does not have the capacity to answer the questions that come from the Committee. So let me go to the representative Sanner from the Right, who was talking about a "reprise" and then held a post with a brette rhetorical point that just sounded home when the Right was with the Workers' Party and the Center government. I thought it was interesting to follow along. The point with this was just the argument that the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party led. After all, it suggested that the old-fashioned gas power plants such as the Right, the Advance Party and the “Environmental Party” would build the Workers’ Party would bring the world ten steps forward in the galactic environmental and climate problems. Climate change emissions would fall to the ground if a built-in one was the argument. And imports from Poland would end, imports from Denmark would end – everything would be much better. So let's ask ourselves if you can see if it's actually like this. I think it's reasonable, when one uses such an argument, that one tries to explain and show in concrete results that there's actually going to be a reduction when one builds these old-fashioned gas plants. I think it's reasonable that a showman and reason that this is actually the case. But it doesn't happen. The SV proposal, which is followed up by the centre party, is that a request be made ‘an independent study on how Norwegian gas power plants will reduce European CO2 emissions during the lifetime period of a gas power plant, at least 20 years’. But then one from the department's side answers to a whole other thing: ‘The pollution laws and general administrative rules provide guidance on how such management should be carried out.’ That's not what we're asking. Or... ‘The majority refers to the fact that Section 18 of the Pollution Act provides access to refurbishment when it distributes the polluter or other...’, etc. That's not what we're asking. We ask if it is possible to get an estimate of whether a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions actually occurs by building gas power plants, and notes that the Labour Party's one government council answers but answers a completely different question, the Labour Party's second state council, the Environmental Protection Council, does not answer, because the other has answered but not answered the question. I found it worrying that one after such a short time in position is back in a culture that has irritated me. We in SV thoroughly: One does not have the ability to listen to others and to take others seriously. A is back in a kind of power-provoking position that one has been in before. That time I thought I was over. It actually showed the center part that it is possible to listen to others and try to answer your input and questions. I consider with concern the way you deal with this proposal from SV on the part of the Government. After all, the only thing we're asking is that they make a small attempt to prove that the arguments they used are correct. SV can say that it is certainly not to want to, and says we are sorry for that for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e505	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e509	As the Government now deals with gas power issues, it is only possible to act if one is victorious and feels that one has been given a kind of political amnesty by the Right and the Advance Party, which makes the goal the most important. How one reaches it is not crucial. Because there are completely different demands from what you normally expect from a government council and government to meet. It was said by Jan Tore Sanner that we have discussed this for a year. As the Government deals with these issues, we have good reason to believe that the debate will continue for another year. In the context of the gas power debate, it was a central issue of gas generation in Norway that would reduce total emissions in the Nordic countries and Europe. Jens Stoltenberg stressed that not a single professional body had allegedly concluded that the result would be a reduction in emissions if we waited to build gas power plants in Norway. Others have had a different opinion. These are researchers associated with SINTEF. This is the Danish Energy Agency, which has said that there is an unsolved issue about Norwegian gas power production will affect coal power production in Denmark. There is therefore every reason to continue working on these issues in order to clarify the relationship between emissions in Norway and the rest of Europe. Therefore, it should be in everyone's interest to have a good basis to pursue our climate policy further. That is not what the majority wants. I think it is alarming that either one does not care about providing a justification for the rejection of the proposal, because such a justification is not contained in the Council of State's letter to the Committee. This reinforces the impression that the most important thing in this case is to facilitate the construction of polluting gas power plants, and it appears more and more obvious that this case was used by the Workers' Party as a matter of government change. For the previous government, it was clearly announced that there was an explicit expectation from Stortinget that by 1 June a person would decide whether there was a need for amendments to the pollution law in order to obtain the requested emission permit for the gas power plants. It was clearly informed that the deadline would be respected, and that the Stortinget would have clear notice. The Stortinget has not received that. We have been given a presumption that one does not believe it is necessary to change the pollution law in order to facilitate the construction of gas power plants. But the Council of State says that first in the current situation and at the time can say this safely. That means that Stortinget has not received the feedback it has requested, and I experience this as a clear neglect on the part of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e522	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e525	Today's case goes straight into the core of the gas power plant debate. The crown argument of the Labour Party and the Right was that the construction of gaseous power plants in Norway would lead to a reduction of more polluting power generation in other countries. At that time it is most noticeable that this majority will not participate in an independent study on the reduction of CO2 emissions in the construction of gas power plants in Norway. Is the majority afraid of the result? Or what are you afraid of? So to an even more serious side of the gas power issue, which we are going to come back to in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 33, but as there's good reason to go into it now. The majority of the population of the Right and the Workers' Party adopted on 9 March this year: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and by 1 June 2000 at the latest, to come back with proposals for the amendment of the pollution law if it appears necessary to implement the proposal for decisions on Roman numerals I and II.’; – In other words, the construction of gas power plants. Then the government tried to follow this up in St.meld. No 33, with an extremely thin justification but with the following conclusion: «Implementation of the decision of the Stortinge on the conversion of natural power emission permits for the gas power plants in Kollsnes and Kårstø does not require a legislative amendment to the pollution law.» But then, in a letter to the Committee of 6 June, the Ministry of the Environment said otherwise: ‘The assessment of compliance with the conditions for conversion under the pollution law shall now be carried out through an ordinary procedure. Therefore, no decision on the case can be expected until the autumn.» This is the maximum alarm level. There are two different answers to the same question – not clean, as the representative Sanner says the Council of State has acted on the gas power issue. The government has not actually followed up the decision of 9 March which required a clarification as to whether the law had to be amended before 1 June. Now let's write June 14th. The government has not followed up the Workers' Party and the Right's decision that this should be resolved before 1 June. Now it's actually saying that it can't do that until the autumn. So this is neither a rematch nor a bad reprisal, as the representative Sanner tried to suggest, but a question of follow-up and respect for a decision on a big shot, which is really a very serious matter. I would therefore ask one of the state councils who is now sitting here, to come up to the pulpit and explain why there are two different answers to the same question. Does anyone realize that this is not a follow-up to the decision of 9 March? And how long will the Right, who, frankly, has said that they were to change the pollution law, sit and see that the Government does not clarify whether that is necessary now? If there is no answer, it will be most revealing. I am aware that we will get closer to this, but I believe that such clarification as what I have asked for now, we should be able to get this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e549	I think it is important to distinguish between disagreement in substance, little willingness to dialogue and views on inconsistent answers. The government has provided an additional communication on the State of the State's environmental status, explaining the process related to the follow-up to the Stortingen's decision on the conversion of emission permits to gas power stations. In that big message, we conclude that we do not see it as necessary to amend the pollution law. We will further explain what process we consider necessary in this context in the case, and on the basis of a number of questions from the Committee, I will further answer how that process is to be understood. So we have explained a process related to the follow-up to the Storting decision, but of course it is so that in that process we cannot pre-empt the specific procedure, where the Ministry of the Environment follows the usual administrative rules and guidelines. Otherwise, we will return to the matter in connection with the processing of the said notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e560	I thank the Council of State for taking the floor, but this was with respect to not reporting an answer. The government has in St.meld. No 33 concluded that emission permits for the gas power plants of Kollsnes and Kårstø do not require a legislative amendment to the pollution law. So the government has concluded in the big-time message. But then, in a letter a few days later, it says something different. It actually states that it is not possible to determine whether or not the pollution law needs to be amended in order to build these two gas power stations until it is decided by ordinary procedure. And then it says, ‘It is therefore not possible to wait for any decision on the case before the autumn.’ And ‘before the harvest’ is something other than ‘before 1 June’. This is becoming more and more revealing. The government has concluded and subsequently decided that no, we cannot conclude within the time limit Work Party and the Right imposed on the government. We can only do that when we deal with the concrete case of transformation. I have to ask one of the councils to come up and explain how to give two different answers. Has the Government now concluded that the pollution law does not need to be amended? This was the core question on 9 March, which actually led to a change of government. Or has it not been concluded that the pollution law needs to be amended? It must be possible to give an answer. Has it been concluded that the pollution law does not need to be amended, or has it not been concluded? If no answer to this can be given, this is a matter that will pursue the Government, where a highly inconsistent and unclear procedure appears. It is, in my opinion, quite serious, and the opposition will ensure that the seriousness of this matter is pursued. But is it possible to get an answer? Is it concluded, or is it not concluded, that the pollution law needs to be amended? That was the heart of the debate on 9 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e581	Like the representative Bondevik, I felt that the contribution to the Minister for the Environment did not provide the necessary clarification of what was the point of leaping from the amendment of the pollution law. That is why I have a very specific question for the Minister for the Environment: can the Minister for the Environment rule rule out the need to amend the pollution law in order to follow up the current decision on pollution?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e586	I said earlier today that I think it was embarrassing to listen to a response from the Prime Minister. Now I have to say, I think it's starting to get embarrassing when there are two councillors present. Former Prime Minister asks a specific question in connection with a matter from 9 March that led to a change of government, and the two government councils do not give any sign of wanting to answer the questions. It is clear that it is entirely possible that the government of Stoltenberg has found that it makes sense to adopt an attitude towards the Stortinget where contempt for the national Parliament and contempt for important political actors are expressed in a way. It is possible that you think it is right to do your best to get the most out of the way. It is possible that there is a strategy towards the budgeting of the harvest and that a death of beauty will be sought in this respect. But that's a rather dramatic change from former labor party governments, which I've experienced for many years. So I think I would strongly recommend the Minister for the Environment to answer Kjell Magne Bondevik's questions, which I agree with. A concrete decision was taken to raise the issue of whether the decisions relating to the application of natural force could be reversed, within the framework of the pollution law, and this was to be done, according to the decision taken by the Workers' Party and the Right, by 1 June. There are some letters where the Minister for the Environment has made it clear that it is not possible to answer that question without a specific procedure, and some of them have not been implemented. However, nothing was said on the part of the Workers' Party on 9 March that there was a need for a specific procedure to clarify whether the necessary decisions could be reversed on the ground of the pollution law, or whether amendments to the pollution law were necessary. Then the Labour Party and the Right with a wide pen struck that it was fully possible, despite the fact that a letter from the Legal Department in the Ministry of Justice actually showed something different. I find it really shocking that the matter on which the Workers' Party and the Right have provided for a change of government has not been followed up by the Government, with a clarification of a completely decisive and central question within the deadline of 1 June. In the letter that came after 1 June, it has been said that one cannot make a clarification and conclude. Is it really the case that the whole foundation for the formation of government is now lost, and that we are facing a government that does not want to answer questions from parliamentary leaders in the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e597	I asked for the word, because I did not see any response to the government council that showed that they would answer any of these questions. I'm not exactly going to undertake the task of explaining the matter, but I'm just like Carl I. Hagen is very interested in getting an answer to this question. I will not try to sum up the debate in detail either, but I have a two-three thing I think I have to point out. We have gas, millions of cubic meters, billions of cubic meters of gas. What are we going to do with that gas? Shall we burn it into the sea, or shall we take it to land? If we're going to take it ashore, what are we going to do with it? Should we send it in pipeline down to Europe and import electricity? The gas has to be burned. It has to be burned if you're going to get power from it. The question is, where should it be burned? Are we going to burn it in Europe, or are we going to burn it here in Norway? The pollution will be exactly the same, if we burn it in China. The gas must be burned. That's what's the jumping point. In my poor opinion -- I'm not an economist, but I can count plus and minus -- it's actually profitable for the Norwegian society to burn the gas in Norway and then export the power. I can't make it become anything else, better math. We create jobs at the same time as we burn the gas. We send the pollution away with the southwest and northwards. But if we burn the gas in Europe, we have to accept the pollution. So I think it is necessary to make the legislative changes and take the decisions that are needed to exploit this gas for our own benefit, for the benefit of society, instead of polluting coal-fired power stations down in Europe. I was down in Poland last autumn. I was traveling to one of the cities that burn coal. I must honestly say that it was not a pleasant experience to come to the hotel room. It smelled cool, just like I experienced it when I was young and we fired coal at home. It must be terrible for people to live in such areas. I think they would have appreciated getting little polluting gas power from Norway. I think a lot of people would be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e612	I get to repeat what I said in my previous answer: the Labour Party government will not change the pollution law to follow up the Storting decision, and the process of follow-up to the Storting decision has been further explained in the supplementary communication to the Government Environmental State of the Land.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e617	Kjell Magne Bondevik has had the word twice before, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e620	This is starting to become more and more interesting, and I'll say more and more serious as well. One thing is disagreement about the matter, but another thing is a consistent follow-up of the decision making process. If the state councils think they can let go of answering the questions that have been asked, they are wrong. The matter is going to be persecuted, and can become more and more serious. I accept that the Right has a different view than the centre and SV of the gas power plant. I also accept that the Right were the ones who first talked about changing the pollution law. But I actually thought that this party was more concerned with a consistent follow-up to the decision-making process. The representative, Sanner, was probably the one who said there was no slingshot on the date of 1 June. It remains that the Government says something in St.meld. No 33, and the Council of State confirmed that position now, that the law should not be amended. But she has signed a letter of 6 June that says something else, namely that whether or not the pollution law needs to be amended can only be clarified for the autumn. There are two different answers. That's what's left of it. And we can't live with that kind of ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e632	Gunnar Kvassheim has also had the word twice before, and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e635	The Council of State says that the Workers' Party will not change the pollution law in order to comply with the Storting decision. It fits well with the current Prime Minister Stoltenberg said when we discussed this, a reckoning not that there was a need for change in the law, and one would not change the law. What is now the main issue is whether or not there is an open possibility of amending the pollution law. That was the reason why I asked a specific question: can the Council of State rule out the need to amend the pollution law in order to comply with the Storting decision? It shall be possible to answer either yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e645	First of all, a manifest misunderstanding when the representative Hagen says that the Right provided for a change of government. The representative Hagen also knows it's wrong. The situation was that Prime Minister Bondevik chose to leave. Otherwise, let me say that the clarification that has now come proved to be quite necessary through the debate that has now expanded. It has now been clarified and decided by the Council of State that there is no need to amend the pollution law to implement the Storting Decision. That's also what the big message says, and let me underline: that's also what the right point is. So when the Council of State of the United Kingdom has confirmed that there is no need to amend the pollution law in order to implement the Stortingen decision that no stricter requirements should be imposed on gas power plants in Norway than is usual in the EEA area, we take note of that, and we look forward to further progress in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e652	The size has received two different answers from the Council of State. She has spoken with two tongues in this matter. She said in her last answer that she did not believe that a change in the pollution law was necessary. However, there is still a written document, the letter that Stortinget received from the Council of State of 6 June 2000. That letter says: ‘The assessment of compliance with the conditions for conversion under the pollution law shall now be carried out through an ordinary procedure. Therefore, no decision on the case can be expected until the autumn.» I have to ask the Council of State whether she has thereby withdrawn what is stated in the letter of 6 June, and that it no longer has the validity of such a letter, that it is therefore only the text of St.meld. No 33, which says, and that the two letters she sent to Stortinget, and the text relating to the ordinary procedure, have thus been withdrawn. And that too will be alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e662	President, it is possible that I was a little quick, but I did not see any councillor raise his hand to ask for the floor to answer the question from the President-in-Office. If this is how the Council of State will respond, I would appreciate it if I could come to the Council of State. [[The President's reply is missing]] President, it's possible I was a little quick, but I asked the president if it was possible to get the floor after the Council of State, because I didn't think the debate would be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e671	The President can't change anything in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e674	All right. Then I will also be allowed to correct the Council of State's understanding of the decisions taken by the Stortinget. It sometimes works as state councils think that there are statements we're talking about; we're talking about decision-making. Point I sounded like this: ‘The decision asks the Government to take urgent action to transform the terms of the emission permits granted for gas power plants. ...’» It was adopted by the votes of the Labour Party and the Right. Then you put in a reserve. If it were to be found that these conversion decisions could not be made under the pollution law, a decision was taken, which the Progress Party also voted in favour, together with the Right and the Workers' Party, which reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and by 1 June 2000 at the latest, to come back with proposals for the amendment of the pollution law if it appears necessary to implement the proposal for decisions on Roman numerals I and II.’; We of course assumed that this 100 pst. clarification was to take place before 1 June and, if that clarification was such as to raise doubts, proposals were to be made for the amendment of the pollution law. Now we are in this situation that we are well out in June, and the government has said in a letter to the committee that it is not possible to decide whether there can be a reform decision within the framework of the pollution law until there is a concrete procedure. Why, then, has the Government not done what is necessary in order to initiate this procedure in order to clarify it, so that the decision of the Storting can be respected, as the Government Party itself has made? It's an additional question to the government bench. I must also join in what Kjell Magne Bondevik said, that it is beginning to become relatively eye-catching and embarrassing both for the national Parliament and for the Government that the Government has such a delicate position in respect of compliance with the decision to roll-over – and I must add: especially the decision to roll-over that led to a change of government, and where the current government party actively carried out a case-making here in the Stortinget that it has now torn down the carpet below. But at least it has to be clarified: What is the Government's attitude? Can these changes be made within the framework of the pollution law, or is it as it says in the letter, that one cannot do so until it has been dealt with in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e702	Let me say to the representative Hagen that there is just a response to the follow-up to the Storting decision that the Government is making in the supplementary notification to the State Environmental State of the State, where we make it very clear that it is not necessary to change the pollution law in order to follow up the Storting's decision on the conversion of the emissions permits. So we've described a process. I have given further answers to that process, related to questions from the Committee, including: in a letter dated 6 June, referred to by Hilde Frafjord Johnson. That answer, of course, stands by law, and in no way contradicts the Government's view that there is no need to amend the pollution law. In the letter of 6 June I went into the procedure that has been initiated. A thorough and comprehensive process of processing has been initiated, and the reason why it takes some time is, firstly, that natural force has requested a restatement of the emission permits and that there are ordinary rules of procedure for dealing with such a case. It is the process described by the Government in the supplementary notification to the Stortinget and it will be given the opportunity to comment when that notification is to be processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e709	Yes, after a lengthy debate, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I can only note that the confusion that has been advised before the debate started is still there after the speeches by the Council of State. And I note that the following is still on the table: the assessment of whether the conditions for conversion under the pollution law are met shall be carried out through an ordinary procedure. I also note that we will not receive an answer to this question until the autumn, contrary to the decision that was taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e714	Jan Tore Sanner has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e717	Let me just say at the bottom of the debate that I think you're now boiling soup on a nail. It was decided by a majority in Stortinget that the Government had to return to Stortinget by 1 June if there was a need to amend the pollution law. The government has come back and determined that this is not necessary. Let me then underline another important point in the debate we had up until 9 March, and that is that it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure proper proceedings. There is still a point to the right, and that is why we also believe that the Government, the Ministry and the Council of State have put forward a proper and sound procedure. But what is clear after this debate is that there is no need to amend the pollution law in order to implement the Storting decision as it was taken on 9 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e725	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3657]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e739	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3657]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e753	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e760	I promoted this proposal in the same way as previous proposals I put forward and which were annexed to the protocol, and which resulted in the Ministry of the Environment starting to re-test what we all thought were hybrids. The result showed that four puppies were hybrids, i.e., a mixture of dogs and wolves. The four wolves were decided to kill, and a large-scale action was launched to get the job done. So far, it's just one of the wolves that's been killed. I wonder what the other three are doing when the spring has come and the dizziness is spreading. Yes, I wonder if they continue to make more hybrids. In the past, this was a problem. The question to the Minister for the Environment is: is it no longer a problem that we have hybrids in the Norwegian fauna? My proposal was an attempt to clarify the claims that have been made for a long time about the release of the wolf here in the country. It is a bit remarkable that around 1994 there was no wolf in Norway. Then the entire Scandinavian wolf tribe was on the other side of the border, while we now experience that 70 pst. of the Scandinavian wolf tribe is in Norway. What's happened? It stands for me – and for the administrators – as an unanswered question. By testing these wolf families, which there should be only a few of them according to the researchers in the Directorate of Nature Management, a person would have been given a clarification. What are the authorities concerned about when they don't want to go in for such a test? I wonder, and I'm not alone in tricking it. What's the problem? Can you trust the administration when they are unable to kill four wolves after millions of dollars have been spent on hunting? On Friday we will decide to use an additional 2 million. kr for the hunt for pests. What kind of trust can the Norwegian people have in the Ministry of the Environment and the administrative bodies? What kind of confidence can we have in the censuses it's operating on, when the wolf population and the quantity in Norway explodes in a few years? So it's said to kill animals that do damage and that they're not outside the nucleus. Yes, it is only within the core areas the wolf must be. But who's going to tell the wolf this? He does not understand anything of the decisions taken in the Stortinget or the Department. He's going where it's food. He goes at the sheep he had to find, he goes at the cow he had to find, he goes at the calf he had to find, he goes at the moose – he goes at the game. We're not able to kill four wolves. How in the name of the Lord do we expect to be able to control hundreds of wolves moving outside the nucleus? I also have a question to the Council of State: how's the hunt going? Can I get an answer to that question before we end this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e773	For the second time in a year, the Committee on Energy and the Environment has addressed a question on the genetic testing of wolves in Norway. The representative Mr Bastisen promoted a Document No. 8 proposals already in the autumn of 1998, which were dealt with in Stortinget in the winter of 1999. During the examination of that proposal, the Ministry of the Environment presented the measures in place to implement and develop methods and analyses for the genetic testing of wolves. This work has now been continued and routine collection and analysis of wolf samples is now being carried out. In addition, there is a cooperation with Sweden, where the Swedish Naturvårdsverket and the University of Uppsala are engaged. This project involves a comprehensive genetic analysis of wolves both in Norway and Sweden. In today’s debate, the representative Bastesen has asked questions about how such a percentage of the Scandinavian wolf population can now be found in Norway. The Ministry has presented the preliminary wolf registration in a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee, indicating that there are six family groups of wolves in southern Scandinavia in the winter of 1999/2000. It's the same number of family groups as the two previous winters. Over the last three years, the geographical distribution of the population has changed slightly. The number of family groups has now been divided by two in Norway, one in Sweden and three using the area on both sides of the national border. In addition to the family groups, six to nine wolves are now registered in southern Scandinavia this winter. In the light of the proposal further referred to by Mr Bastesen in his document No. In Norway, the Ministry’s letter states that there is no reason to assume that the hybridisation between wolf and dog has been or is a problem in Norway, except for the cases detected in one flock in Eastfold during the winter. The Committee therefore considers that the measures taken to identify the genes of the wolf are sufficient to provide the knowledge needed by the competent authorities in the management of the wolf in Norway. Therefore, a unanimous committee recommends that Document No. 8:51 is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e788	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3657]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e802	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3657]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e816	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e825	No one could have avoided noticing that the defense is within a break-in period. A week ago, we discussed in this room both expenditure incurred in connection with the foreign exposure we have in Kosovo and investment in new frigates. Today, the Defence Committee is presenting its position on a number of large and small investment projects – a total of 21. In many ways, all these debates demonstrate what is at the heart of the defence activities today, and the challenges: foreign activity and the need for material investment. So a week ago, Stortinget decided that we should get new frigates. The current suspension by the Defence Committee is more in line with the signs of the liquidation and suspension. Let me begin by saying that in general, today's setting is far on the road marked by unanimity, and where there is a divided setting, this is related to smaller projects, primarily on the property side. It is in the configuration of a unanimous committee that finds it unfortunate that it is not possible to implement the material programme adopted by the Storting through the treatment of the so-called investment profile. It is therefore a crossroads of thought that it has already proved impossible to achieve the long-term objectives of the defence's tasks, structure and activities set out by the Stortinge. As the rapporteur for this position on the investment of the defence, I think I should once again express my general concern about the lack of long-termity and predictability of the investment chapter, when we know that in two days' time, in the context of the revised national budget, 500 million will be recovered. kr on the Defence Investment Budget. And this happens in the middle of a fiscal year where already nearly 80 pst. the budget is bound by legally binding contracts. The second major issue I want to raise is the relationship with the non-implementation of the fighter aircraft project. Although the setting in this area is slightly divided, it is nevertheless a unanimous committee which points out that in the current situation there are only economic reasons why the project, in its reduced form, cannot be carried out as originally planned. So there is still no doubt that the conclusion of the fighter aircraft analysis that Norway needs new fighter aircraft remains. There is also no doubt that both of the alternate aircraft types, which have been involved in the whole process, are excellent aeroplanes that could have solved the missions in an excellent way. However, in order to create the necessary financial freedom in the remaining investment portfolio, and room for future conversion measures, it has become necessary not to implement the fighter aircraft project in the coming years. However, I would like to point out the important mission given to the Government in the suspension, to actively work within the NATO alliance to facilitate allied combat aircraft departments finding Norway interesting in a training and practice perspective, and thus also to prepare the basis for possible deployments in the event of crises and wars. The next major project I want to address is the postponement of clarifying the question of starting new missile torpedo boats. As you know, a majority here in Stortinget, consisting of the Working Party and the Right, have previously taken into account the launch of this project this year, provided that a successful trial period on the pre-series vessel. Tests on the pre-series vessel have been successful. The products from – now – Umoe Mandal have kept goals. However, financial restrictions on the free movement of capital are again imposed on investment in a new and necessary material. In a joint comment from the Labour Party and the Right, we regret that it is not possible to address the issue of series production of MTBs now. However, I am pleased that a majority in Stortinget will follow the Government's recommendation to dispose of up to 25 million. kr to maintain a satisfactory engineering capacity at Umoe Mandal. The general must nevertheless be that there is a need for the MTBs in the Norwegian defence, which I believe it is. Furthermore, a number of medium- and small-scale projects, both on the material and property sides, have been presented in the report. Unfortunately, time does not allow us to go into any longer presentation of these projects. In general, the Government endorses its proposals in the proposal. In two areas, the majority opposes: a majority in the Committee is not willing to implement a planned project on a standard raising of building 64 at Akershu’s fortification, such as: could have released annual rental costs of 4 million. kr in the Oslo area. The second project, where there is a majority against the Government's proposal, is linked to a planned forced conversion/fire protection measures at the defence building at Huseby here in Oslo. A majority here have not found the basis for agreeing to a refurbishment of this project, and thus not agreeing to an increase of 15 million in the scope of the project. kr. Let me end by mentioning that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal to terminate the project of new transport aircraft. Finally, I would like to address the two minority proposals from the Labour Party, proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e857	Gunnar Halvorsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e860	The rapporteur has explained the Committee's position in the larger lines and also included some of the smaller projects related to the setting. First of all, I think it is worth noting that a joint committee finds it unfortunate that it has not been possible to implement the material programme adopted by the Stortinget. It is in a way a criticism of itself, but I would argue that it is nevertheless very special that an overall committee simply records that – obviously for reasons other than defence – the money that the Storting has said and taken into account is not granted. This means that the defense comes in a rather impossible situation when it comes to controlling the resources. Because there's just the need for long-termity that I see and read that the committee points to is necessary, and that's probably so much a greeting to the other members of the Stortinget, who obviously don't care so much about looking at the long-term lines of defence planning. In this way, there could be an interesting debate – if several committees could participate. But that's not my main point. The main point is simply a strong emphasis on the need to keep the targets. I think it's quite remarkable that the government that went off had settled on a line where, over the four-year period, you would have zero growth, zero growth, 0.5 and 0.5. And then you end up at negative, negative and negative-- all the way. In that case, it is of little use to the current government, even though it has made a proposal for a cut of 500 million in the context of the revised budget. kr – a huge amount if we see it in connection with the acquisitions made. The government that went off, and which had laid the plan for how to push defence investments forward, could cope with the revision and stood reasonably well, with heels together – which they did not do by this crossroads either. In the case of credible long-term alternatives, it is likely that you will have to look outside this room to find them, unless you have to rely on an overall defence committee – but it obviously does not help. One of the more dramatic cuts that the majority are in favour of is to say, at this point in time, that you will not implement the fighter aircraft project. It's a project that's been treated and that you've been working with for a long time. It has a high price, almost NOK 11 billion, but it's been inside the plans all along. Then you systematically remove the funds that were to support this when the project was decided and carried on. So this hasn't happened, because the frames have been messed up all the way. The aircraft manufacturers have been challenged, a competition that was almost complete has been spent at least 68 million. kr to get this project up and go – and then you wave goodbye. It is known that there are no alternatives other than these two aeroplanes, unless you have to change the specifications and re-enter the loaded aeroplane types that have been rejected and removed for the longest time. It is then difficult to see that there is no support for the proposals made by the Progress Party to implement the competition, then the money was not lost, and then a way of financing this was found. The right, along with the Progress Party, has helped to say yes, we're going to assess whether there are no other solutions to this in the future in terms of funding. But what's going to be hard to understand is that you almost give up. And the ministry is quite right to say that this can in a way undermine the trust in Norwegian defence and its ability to compete. I think the department is absolutely right in that, and I don't want to rule out – as I understand the department also points out – that it might be possible to raise some demands, although it wouldn't be so much fun if you chose to put up again in a later competition. But it's a part of weakening trust. We have repeatedly said that we should buy aircraft, transport aircraft – or it should be fighter aircraft and other – and then we fall on foot in order. It doesn't give credibility, and it should take the whole Big One inwards. In my opinion, one has had an opportunity to make the choice now. You didn't want to do that. But what are you going to do? I would like to ask the Council of State straight out: Is this how you are now considering buying used F-16 MLU to sort of fill in the gap that has already occurred through loss, and which hopefully will not be much bigger in the years to come? Or is it that you want to go a whole new round with a completely new take-off, but with the same aircraft types? That's essentially the question. What are the plans of the State Councils now? That doesn't give the proposition a very good answer. In the case of the missile torpedo boats, the Progress Party will not be willing to pay 25 engineering positions at Umoe in the hope that there will be something out of it, because with all the cancellations we have seen, I doubt that there will be economic space itself for this. Although the will of the Right and also of the Workers' Party has been strong and great, it has not been possible to get this project ashore either, even though Umoe Mandal has been promised this for a long time. So we think it's right to say like that: we get to wait until the technology is finished, until the evaluation is done, until the weapon systems are done, as I said before, and then we'll see if there's money for this, if it's recommended. So we'll see. But I think it's a little strange to pay for 25 engineering positions that it's actually up to a private company to pay. So in the case of part of the construction projects, if we sum up what we ask for in supplementary appropriations and to rebuild, it's also going to be a pretty big sum, which might have been spent on other, more priority areas at the so-called acute end. They receive support for postponing and, at least, not now deciding on some of the development projects. It is due to a majority of all except the Workers' Party. We wait and see how organizational development becomes before we go to the step of spending money on buildings. In the case of Rygge Aviation Station, an overall committee has pointed out that it is assumed that any future civil and military use of the aerodrome will take into account the investments made by the Defence in joint facilities when calculating the cost sharing for the construction of a new fire station. If we are to enter into this with civil operations, it is reasonable to also share in the bill, as the Committee has stressed. So to building 64 at Akershus. Based on all the experience of rebuilding Akershus it is that when you present a bill for a conversion of such old buildings, the tendency is that that bill doubles. And when you look at a combination of management training with only one goal in mind, namely Akershus, it's not surprising that you want to rebuild first and then maybe make a decision later, or hope for a decision. There are a number of documents that indicate that they have wanted it this way, and we will see how this progresses further through decisions in the order of the majority of the committee. So I'd like to challenge the government council of the Mauken-Blötind, where the majority of the committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, says: ‘The majority are concerned that this may result in delayed start-up in the project. The majority assume that the project will be completed in 2003 according to the Storting decision...» I'd like to challenge the Council of State on that, because he's been a little off the hook with the pressure that's always been out of the special interests of his group in this context. In the case of increased appropriations for heating centres at the Settermo, a total of 28 million. kr, neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party will now spend money in this area. That's what we think is a lot of money with a somewhat doubtful savings effect. So for the acquisition of medium-sized transport aircraft. The Progress Party and the Right have said that they want to finance this through additional appropriations and without any repurchasing requirements. That means we see a need for new planes, because the old ones are uneconomical to operate, and it basically points to the ministry as well. And our proposal is: if you do things that don't have internal policy implications for the economy, you should follow up and buy. That's exactly what you've pointed out when it comes to the fighter planes; there are opportunities, there are offers from those who deliver, and then you won't go into them. Then there is also a very clear note about the IT projects that exist, which say: this must not be exceeded, we have poor experience, and we have asked that progress be kept up-to-date. Finally, I allow myself first to take up the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right. [[The President clubs]] That is the proposal No. 3 and 4 in the setting. Proposal No. 4 concerns loans to the Norwegian Museum of Photography Foundation, Preus Photo Museum of 6 million. kr. As proposal No 4 says it's not being delivered. There are limits to loans to photographic museums. [[The President clubs]] I also refer to proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, I address the proposals of the Progress Party. That is proposal No. 6 if you don't spend 25 million. kr on engineering capacity... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e917	The President will state that the representative is now relinquishing his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e920	... and proposal No. 7 on fighter planes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e925	The representative Røsjorde has drawn up the suggestions he made okay for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e928	St. pp. No 58 shows that the ambitions may have been too big here in the Chamber by previous decisions on defence investment. As a result, several large investment projects are now being postponed or stopped. The Christian People's Party considers this to be reasonable given the coming long-term message that will clear up many uncertainties about the future structure and hence the needs and priorities of the Defence. Just one year before a notification that may alert a fundamental change in our defence, it is important to avoid misinvestment and to provide financial space for any conversion that may be necessary. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Ministry's proposal for the suspension and termination of material projects such as the acquisition of new fighter aircraft, medium-sized transport aircraft and armoured special vehicles. Christian People's Party registers with satisfaction that the Ministry of Defence has initiated a new reindeer professional assessment of the Mauken-Blatin project. We have been critical of the interconnection of these two fields for the environment and the reindeer industry, and voted against this project when it was adopted at Stortinget in 1997. In retrospect, among others: together in Inner Troms claimed that previous assessments have not taken sufficient account of the needs of reindeer management in the area. This will now be reviewed, and the Christian People's Party requires, cf. our comment, together with the centre party in this setting, that if this reassessment produces new elements in relation to the reindeer industry, the Storting must take a fresh decision on the matter. On two points in the vote, the Christian People's Party joins with a majority in the committee against the Government's proposals. This concerns the improvement of Building 64 at Akershu’s attachment, and the maintenance of conversion and fire protection measures at the General Command of the Armed Forces Huseby. In both of these cases, there is concern about the uncertainty about the future use of these buildings that lies behind our assessments. Building 64 at Akershus is one of several alternatives – Oslo, Hamar or Harstad – for the future location of the Defence's new payroll administration, a location The Stortinget will decide on the next autumn in the treatment of St.prp. No Seventy-five. Only part of the building, if any, shall be used for this purpose. Nevertheless, upgrading this building could now be considered to be a foreclosure of funds to – and arguments for – the location of this unit in Oslo. As said, the Stortinget will decide on this later, with an assessment of several options. We also oppose the extension of the framework for the reorganisation of Huseby for 15 million. kr in anticipation of what will be left where the Defence Command is today, after the defence management structure has been reviewed. We also ask the Ministry to consider whether it is necessary to continue the improvement of these premises until the building needs of the Overcommand have been clarified. So some words about building MTBs. The Bondevik Government considered that series production of MTBs could be assessed at the earliest starting date in 2003 and after testing the front-line vessel. It is gratifying that this test period has shown very good results. Nevertheless, for economic reasons, it is necessary to give priority to investment in new material in the Defence. The majority has recently decided to purchase five new frigates, which means that priority is given to new MTBs. The fact that the head of defence has not given the MBTs the necessary priority in the material sector, we must give great weight. The working party and the Right have now had to go back on their promises of start-up as early as 2000. The Labour Party is now saying in the government that further assessment of the position of the MTB in a future defence structure in the context of the next long-term message needs to be made. The Christian People's Party has been opposed to the project being refurbished now and believes that the revision of the defence structure and investment plans must be in place before a provision is made. I hope that series production can prove to be a priority project on the defence side and on the political side. The Christian People's Party believes it is very important to maintain the engineering capacity of Umoe Mandal, and we agree that it is necessary to spend up to 25 million. kr in order to maintain it and its related operations. The front-series vessel has shown that it corresponds to the expectations. Economics, the priorities of the defence and the political will of the defence will be crucial for the full construction of the series. I believe that the defense needs these vessels and looks with excitement to a final clarification, which should come at the latest when dealing with the next long-term message. Finally, some words about medium heavy transport aircraft. The government believes it is economically most realistic to update the current aircraft fleet. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal for termination. We cannot give our support to the right and the Progress Party's proposal to assess purchases without repurchase. We have not previously agreed to such a principle, which could create precedents for other purchases, even in other areas. In the case of Settermoen – heating centre with bio-fuels and heat pump recovery, we record that there is a cost increase here as well. However, we want the project to be carried out because it is environmentally positive, an aspect that is important for the Christian People's Party. The decisions we are making today will give us time to make the right priorities, including: investments in new defence equipment. They will also be able to create an economic space that is needed to make as good a decision as possible, which, hopefully, can be the basis for the long-term prospects of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e958	The defense is now in a well-known disaster. Some of the debts involved must be borne by the Defence itself, including: is too slow a pace when it comes to rationalising peacemaking. Constant overruns of material contracts in the construction sector are also, and it is usually a sign of poor work. I would ask the Council of State to take a careful look at this, because it must also be in Defense to stick to the frameworks that are laid down, if one does properly worked. We have an example in the defense that it has gone well. I think it's very important to do something about this, because now money is wasted on this basis. The main responsibility for the problem in Defense still rests on changing governments and in the plural here in the house. In the 1990s, it has been cleared for about two years. 10 billion dollars less than what was going on to achieve the measurements that Storting itself has seen. Cape. 1760 item 45 is used as a non-use item for all kinds of purposes. The corresponding evil is that the plural departed from unpopular, but absolutely necessary rationalization of peacemaking. It was meant that 6,000 settings were to be removed during the 1990s. There were 2,000, not least because the plural here in the house bends off for local pressure when unpopular matters come on the agenda. The management of Poseidon last spring was an example of the horror in that way, where the bulk of the population, etc. stopped to continue the training of a type of personnel for which the defence is no longer needed, only because the institution was popular, of course, in the community concerned. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party pointed out in a note in the introduction to the setting that they had to wait for a new structure to clarify the need. But if these parties, together with the Workers' Party, continue in the old way of subjugating and using cap.1760 as a mixed mail, it will only be a short time before the new structure is also a Utopian target, and everything in 2004 is a new long-term message similar to the corner. These parties must soon understand that they keep their defenses stuck in a vicious spiral, so that we never get that defense a single player wants, and so that wrong investments become inevitable. That the Ministry of Finance doesn't understand this is incredible, they should be concerned with efficient resource use. The simplest housewife has no problem understanding the logic of this. So to some concrete projects. When it comes to fighter aircraft, last year during the treatment of the investment profile, the Right said that if one had to postpone any project because of a lack of money, it had to fly. The reason for that is simple, at least it seemed to me. It is better to take out one big project than many small ones. Our allies have a lot of fighter planes, they can be here in a very short time if they need it. There's another element coming in here, and it's that, in a small aircraft like ours, it's very resource-intensive to have two different aircraft types. It requires double sets of pilots, mechanics, spare parts, etc. I think, therefore, that in the further run now it is very important that we get such an arrangement that as the day's F-16 gets phased out, we go over to a new type, so that we still have a fighter aircraft type in our defense. If we had purchased today, I believe I should have purchased the corresponding F-16 that we have. We could have gotten twice as many of those types as, for example, by Eurofighter or the new F-16. Let's see. We should keep the doors open to all the suppliers who have been so far, that is my opinion. But we have to be completely free to choose the long-term solutions that we are best equipped with – and that is, we should bet on being able to have a type. With regard to the MTBs, the project was agreed here in the middle of the 1990s. Everyone was a few about it, the head of defense and all of them. We were on the basis of the experience from the mining vessel some of the things that we were going to create a prototype. Right went in for this because we wanted MTBs in our structure. So we went in for the costs that this entails. We're using $300 million. kr now to develop this for-series vessel. I thought it would seem very easy when you're involved in something like this, that you're using $300 million. kr, and then says one will not. It reminds me of good that starts eating on a cake, and when he's come in the middle, he throws it and takes another one, because it looks better. We decided that we would have MTBs in our marine defense. When we entered the prototype, the time aspect was that production should be started in 1998, i.e. two years ago, so it is the Labour Party and the Right here that stick so closely to the original tempo plan. We don't provide anything. It's the others who want to train. We would have preferred to see that we had been on the decision from last year and started production now, as the test period was very successful. When the government needs some more time, we will support it, and support the use of 25 million. kr to maintain the capacity of the manufacturer. I think it's going to be a lot more expensive if we let this fly and then we had to start all over again somewhere else later. When it comes to transport aircraft, we've repeatedly learned that this is a profitable project. For AS Norway, it'll pay better to buy new planes than to patch up the old ones. And for the defense, it's quite clear that it would be much better to have new planes that work, than to have old planes that are still on the ground for repair. We can buy this without any repurchasing requirements. Then there's nothing to say about the temperature in the Norwegian economy, and then I can't help but see that both AS Norway and the Defence would be the best place to start this. We have come up with a sober proposal to sort this out, and ask the government to come back to it. It is a pity that a majority in Stortinget does not even want to know the facts in the matter, and therefore will not go in to get the matter settled. Now, of course, the Council of State can do it anyway, and I hope that he will go in for what both AS Norway and the Defence will be best equipped to do. When it comes to Mauken-Blatin, I just have to say – I was the case spokesman in this case: we put enormous emphasis on the care of the group. I was several extras on the top of the view, just for their sake. I can't see that there was something that should have been done that time, which has not been done, and I just have to say I'm sorry that I thought that postponing it now is to give in to squaring. We need this field, and I think the best thing would have been that one only had started without further ado. I look forward to the Government's answer to the question from the committee's leaders, and I hope that we can be assured that there will be no undue postponement of this. Otherwise, I'll just show you the Right Comment in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1002	The president has some doubts as to the topic of the'simple housewife' was particularly fortunate, and will mention it to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1005	Before I take a stand today about the investments of the defense, I will come back to the largest of them all, the purchase of five new frigates. That case was dealt with by Stortinget on 31 May this year. The majority then gave the green light for frigate purchase, the largest investment in the history of defence. The matter should therefore be settled. However, it has now become known that there have been major problems in arranging the contract between Bazan and the largest of the Norwegian subcontractors, Umoe Lökoder – despite the fact that there must have been a signed intention agreement and supplementary agreements for a construction contract to Umoe Lögoder worth about NOK 2 billion. According to the evening post, Bazan announced yesterday evening that the negotiations with Umoe Herrkoder had ended without results. This is serious and must be handled by the Government. In this connection, I would like to remind you of a unanimous comment by the Committee on the Interior. S. No 192 for 1999-2000, which of course has to be taken into account in the further work on the case, and where it says: ‘The Committee refers to repurchase agreements as a prerequisite for the conclusion of a contract. The Committee assumes that there is a satisfactory agreement between Norwegian operators and Bazán before the Government authorises the defence to conclude a main contract with Bazán.’ I have no reason to doubt that the Government will follow up the Storting's quoted assumption, but consider the developments in the matter to be so alarming that I found it right to recall the unanimous comitology. It may not be necessary to conclude a contract with Bazan unless the repurchase agreement is fully secured – including the assumption that 40 pst. of the frigates shall be built in the Norwegian yard. So to today's setting, where the committee has split up on some points. In a special note, together with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party has stressed that it is important to avoid misinvestment and that necessary investments must be made in an appropriate order and in due time. We have assumed that only the investments for which it is certain that there is a need, regardless of the future defence concept and structure, will be made in the next year – i.e. before the long-term notification of the defence has been addressed by Stortinget next spring. The Party supports the Government's proposal in St. pp. No 58 for 1999-2000 not to implement the fighter aircraft project. The Central Party now considers, as before, that it should not be appropriate to decide on the possible continuation of the MTB project before there is a revision of the defence structure and investment plans. We also recall that the main weapons of MTBs will be developed at the earliest in 2004, and that there is therefore no urgency with a decision. However, we note that there is a majority in the Stortinget, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Right, who initially wanted to support the MTB project and start the series production this year. We thus see the need to maintain, inter alia: the engineering capacity pending a final decision. That's why we can also give our support that it can be disposed of up to $25 million. kr to maintain the necessary capacity of Umoe Mandal. However, we assume that the capacity is sought sustainably and financed primarily by the second activity at the current yard. As far as the other investments are concerned, I would just like to mention briefly that the Central Party is in a majority of the committee that is opposed to spending 62 million. SEK for the reconstruction of Building 64 at Akershus fastening now. First, there must be, among other things: the reorganisation of the Armed Forces' remuneration administration and management training are clarified. The centre party is pleased that the Ministry of Defence has taken the initiative in a new reindeer professional assessment in connection with the interconnection of Mauken-Blatin. Hopefully, this can contribute to a better dialogue between the reindeer industry and the Defence. The Centre Party shall also participate in a majority of the Committee which considers that there is no need for the planned construction activity to be carried out at the General Command of the Defence Agency at Huseby. We therefore oppose an extension of the cost framework by NOK 15 million and believe that the project must be carried out within the previously established 65 million framework. kr. In addition, the majority ask the Ministry to assess whether the planned conversion can take place until the management structure of the Defence has been reviewed. The other matters referred to in the proposal are mainly supported by the Centre Party. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal to terminate the acquisition of armoured special purpose vehicles and medium-sized transport aircraft. I also refer to the setting, where the central party's position on the individual themes should be shown in detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1034	St. pp. No In fact, 58 is half a redemption of what SV has now said for two years: suspend the investments and wait until we get the new concept. It is unwise to continue to invest according to a concept that has expired and that sails those who want it, not to be able to finance. It understood even one of those who are of the female sex, and who have used part of their lives to wash cups after part. It's like those who now call themselves defence friends, who are the worst enemies of the defense, because you make sure that here you keep planning to spend a lot of money on projects that you see you have to postpone. In the future, the defence will be smaller, and the international part will be larger. And SV has warned about this bit of bit-job that you're doing now, where you'll see that this just doesn't work out. Now we have to wait until we get the major investigations in place before we make any big decisions. Last May it was completely irresponsible to be against fighter planes. Now it turns out that that was right. Last year, too, it was totally irresponsible and almost behind objectives – perhaps not a parliamentary expression – to oppose the launch of the MTBs. Now you see that this isn't going to work, and I can just join the department and the government writing in the proposition, that now we have to pull the brakes to get the room back and stand freer in the priorities we're going to do once we get the plans. It also states that there is doubt as to the position of the MTB in the future defence structure, the head of defence has stated that it is not certain that this will give the necessary priority to other projects. I also want to remember what Barth Eide, who is now Secretary of State in this government, said in the Evening Post on 1 June 1999: ‘It will be wrong when large investments are made first and then what kind of defence we are going to have.’ Restructurings should be adopted first, then investments. It concerns the investments that are wisely postponed today, but it should also apply to the frigate case, and it should apply to the shooting field case. I guess it's not an exaggeration to say that maybe the acquisition of the frigates doesn't seem to be a great success either. Here's a lot of questions to ask. Can the new contracting entities do this? What's the contract going to look like? Will this stay within the framework? Have we not done enough laps here in the Storting this winter on giant projects that have gone all wrong, and where we have had billions of exceedances that have been reportedly going off on other important things? And all the misinvestments and waste planning resources in the Defence Force will inevitably go beyond the necessary investments and the necessary operations in the future defence. I think it's quite irresponsible to continue as the majority does, close my eyes as long as it goes, and cling firmly to decisions from which one must then run away, after spending millions of money in wasteful planning. So to a measure that's also mentioned in the proposition. It's about Mauken-Blatin. In my opinion, the government has wisely turned on at least one brake. The question is what meaning it will actually have for the future. University Fellow Ken Uggerud has conducted an investigation into international law, co-rights and shooting fields which concludes that there is a need for more thorough investigation into the aspects of international law, and that consent to pre-accession should not be given because of procedural issues. It would have been nice if the council could come up with their views on this, and even if he could make a little more account for the government's handling of the Mauken-Blatten shooting field and the progress on it. I will then be able to bring up the SV's proposal in the matter. It is a ‘at’ that has crept into proposal No. 2 to be deleted. It's simply a write error. I hope that can be done, and hopefully the proposal will be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1058	That's enough to do. The representative, Andersen, has drawn up the suggestions she herself made. The President agreed that the debate on 'back target' is not a good parliamentary speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1065	To start with a few of the questions and comments: I don't know if I should concentrate on the representative Andersen's compliments or on her attack. It's possible it's optional. The easiest thing is perhaps to say that I'm also among those who know how to enjoy washing up, so here in this debate, even the simplest councillor and the simplest housewife get the word, and at least we can enjoy it together. Let me say about the Mauken-Blachtin that it is beyond doubt that we need two large regional shooting grounds in Norway – one in the north and one in the south. There I am not able to give anything free at the doors. But it is also raised beyond doubt that we do not have the power to establish the dialogue with the reindeer interests that the Stortinge provided for in the decision for some years ago. And I have found it right -- in the light of the development of the case and the lack of dialogue -- to try to establish this dialogue with the reindeer interests in the area, not because I think it will be very easy, but because many good advice points in that direction. In the meantime, there are other parts of the project that can be put into work within the existing fields, and in this context should not appear to be particularly controversial. I hope that the progress of the project itself will not be significantly disturbed by it. It is that the target formulations of the proposition are firm, with the possibility of any adjustments, if required in the light of the dialogue. But that's not what's initially in the cards. It has taken time to drive forward the decision of the Storting. It was – I have to say – come shorter than I thought when I became the Council of State, and this is the delay that lies in what I have now said, and the letter that was sent to the lawyer of the reindeer's interests, not in itself a great delay. Let me then say to the very general debate on the investment situation of the defence that I have initially no problem sharing the description of the situation of the defence committee. Maybe that's because it's not that long since I was a member of the committee. At least that's an obvious explanation. And even if you can have many analyses of why it has been so – the Right Party and the Advance Party, of course, have their full explanation – there are others, and I would like to say even more profound and serious explanations of this, as well as what may be the result of the budget procedure of the Storting. It is the fact that the operational budgets of the Defence Agency eat up an ever-increasing share of the defence budget. We can, to say it charismatic, come into a situation where the Defense in 2015 – to take a number – consists of a lot of people on the payrolls, but without modern weapons. There's an illustration of the situation of the defense. We need to provide space for a necessary material renewal by slimming down the Defence Operations Organisation. To put it simply, we must stop preparing for the Third World War, which hopefully does not come, through a gigantic mobilization organization run in peacetime, which in many ways plans – even if I exaggerate – for a confrontation characterized by the analysis of the cold war. So it's unlikely that we're going to meet future needs for defense. These are the illustrations we see in Kosovo, in Bosnia or a few years ago in Lebanon and elsewhere, which illustrate how Norwegian defence must be involved in helping to secure peace, both in Europe and in the world. And helping to secure peace in Europe and in the world is nothing but defence of Norway. It is also part of the defence of Norway. There I would like to remind you of the recognition we came to after two world wars. We thought we could sit still and let everyone else sort out their conflicts, and then we would go harmless. Both World War I and II showed that it was not possible, and therefore we cannot now define the defence of Norway as anything other than actively participating in security and defence policy cooperation in Europe and globally. But I still meet some old people – and nothing bad is said about the old ones, that goes the way with all of us – who have the analysis that what we do outside the country is something other than defence of Norway. It has to end, and it's increasingly something that's going to end. The defence debate has become more interesting and more complex than that. The answer to this is a new, big, collective grip, where in a few weeks we get two big shots, the Defense Study 2000 from the Defence Commissioner and the position of the Defence Policy Committee, which forms the essential foundation for the Government's work on the new long-term programme, where we put all things aside and say: where are we now, and what are we doing now? – to create this link between tasks and objectives on the one hand, and the structure, resources and financial resources of defence on the other. The big, collective grip is going to be painful for many, whether they're tops or rapporteurs or they're going to have a different starting point for their defence policy commitment. We need to establish a link between the defence's objectives and tasks, on the one hand, and the structure and resources, on the other, and I hope that there will be good and reliable cooperation with the Stortinget. In the context of such a race, we had to establish – and I think my predecessor knew that when she announced the revised investment profile last year – that there was no room for NOK 10-11 billion to renew the fighter planes now. That doesn't mean that the fighter planes won't have their central role in the future – I think the Defence Study will underline that – but we can manage with more efficient and modernized F-16 flights until 2012-2015, and that's something quite different than what we experience with the frigates. One has sunk, and the other are 30-40 years old and are not life-created in such a time perspective. And here we never agree with those who go against frigates in the hall, but who lost their voting. This is such a significant feature of Norway's sovereignty in the neighbourhoods, sea areas, collective defence, national defence, that frigates are required. And then I would say to the representative Restad that he goes through an open door when he underlines the need for the government to take care that we have the necessary buy-back regimes in place here. I'm not the least opposed to the formulation that's in the committee setting, as much more as there's a blue copy of what's also in the proposition, but in a slightly different form. Of course, when we invest 14 billion kroner in new frigates, we act to ensure that we have a value creation in Norway and create Norwegian jobs that have a corresponding counterpart through the repurchase arrangements. It is the government's duty to make sure that it is also ensured in the new situation where we now have a breach between Bazan and Umoe Lögoder. There are other stakeholders out there, as we know, and we're joining this daily, not only on behalf of the Government, of course, but also on behalf of the Stortinge according to the committee position that has been presented. It's obviously negative effects by cancelling or postponing the fighter project, but it's a real postponement. I have tried to comfort representatives both for Eurofighter and Lockheed Martin by saying that now they get better time to prepare. They didn't totally kick it, but it's true that we want to maintain a dialogue situation with both Lockheed Martin and Eurofighter to find out who's the best. There is reason to believe that both companies are interested in that dialogue. We cannot demand cancellation on the one hand, as we do with today's decision, and at the same time fulfil all the repurchase options, but I think they are interested in keeping the contracts that have been concluded – they are legally binding – and then they are interested in keeping an open door against Norwegian business and Norwegian industry for the future. And I refer to my answer to the committee on a concrete question in that way. It's not good in relation to what Eurofighter would prefer, or in relation to what the Americans prefer, but it's a better alternative than absolutely nothing, and I have reason to believe that the representative Røsjorde is right. They are a little foolish in the further competition if they are going to exaggerate their potential need for retaliation in the current situation. I think that's an entirely correct analysis. The MTB project has been commented on by several in the Chamber, not least from the case rapporteur. We have a new situation during this spring, as the head of defence not only makes economic arguments against the MTBs, but also says that he will promote an assessment in the Defence Study of the future position of the MTB in the Defence. And then, of course, as the Council of State, I owe it to me to accept that advice. The opposite would be like being the rapporteur in a medium-sized – not to say a small or a large – municipality and saying that I am not going to listen to the councillor until I promote my position or my matters to be decided in the municipal boardroom. It's an exact parallel, and it doesn't mean green light or red light for the MTBs, it means yellow light – and yellow light can, as you know, go both ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1088	The president would say that the comment of the "simple housewife" was not a wish for it to continue to repeat, but on the contrary, even if it has a different context afterwards. The speakers who are given the floor after this have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1093	I want to link some comments to the fighter aircraft project. As the Committee's opinion and comments state, there are no reasons other than the economic reasons behind the non-implementation of the project. In other words, there is nothing to suggest that there is still no need for fighter aircraft in the Norwegian defence. I therefore choose to interpret the decisions taken today as a preliminary postponement of the project and not as a cancellation. When the fighter aircraft project is not completed yet, I will link some comments to some previous decisions that Stortinget has made. The Storting said in Innst. S. No 207 for 1998-99 that the new fighter aircraft will be stationed at Ørland Main Aviation Station, while the fighter aircraft currently stationed on Ørland will be relocated to Bodø and Rygge Main Aviation Stations. Thus, the 58 F-16 aircraft of the Air Force will be collected in two stations. Furthermore, Stortinget has Innst. S. No 244 for 1997–98 said that all intermediate maintenance will be centralised into Bodø in 2000. This implies an investment need of approx. Thirty-eight million. and includes the need for new buildings, structural adaptations and modernisation. In my opinion, once the fighter aircraft project has been iced, the prerequisites for these decisions are no longer present. I then assume that until the Storting decides to resume the fighter aircraft project, today's activity at Ørland's main aircraft station will be maintained. That is to say, there should be no basis for launching new investments other than those for extended maintenance but, as today, intermediate maintenance should continue to be carried out at the Ørland Main Aviation Station for the aeroplanes located there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1113	I basically agree with the Minister of Defense that for a long time we have had a situation where there has been a gap between resources, tasks to be solved and the Defence Operations Organisation. I would also like to add the need to look at investments based on the task to be solved and in a global perspective. So I agree with the Minister of Defense that it is good that he and his predecessors make operational changes. I also agree that the two investigations we get in the summer are important. However, I need, on behalf of the Left, to clarify the military and security policy situation in Norway. I agree that we have tasks in the world, including: in Europe, but I do not think it is possible to add to the geopolitical location that Norway has. Even though we no longer have the cold war, and even though we are no longer neighbors of a superpower, we are neighbors of a power. We can say to each other that it was by purely administrative chance that Russian forces who were withdrawn from Central Europe ended up in Kola, but they did so, among other things. because those things were insults. Then we can also calmly and calmly relate to the fact that those who are there are going to be calm, but I think we should be so realistic and think so long-term that in the opinion of our own defense we never underestimate the need to have a serious territorial defence in our country, in cooperation with our allies both to land, sea and air. I feel the need to make this principal mark, and I also do it with the background that even for a number of years I have been strong for the effort we have, among other things. have contributed to the Balkans. But I want to stress that some of the most important things to ensure a willingness to defend in this country, and also in order to ensure a continued escalation and a protective defence, are among other things. that no part of the country should feel that it is not part of the defence of Norway. Then you can have assessments of how this is going to be expressed in budgetary terms, and my party will also come back to that later. But I feel the need to say that Norway as a coastal state has a geopolitical position that it is never possible to put in the drawer, even though it is sometimes quiet around us, and even if we can do our utmost and hope that it will still be quiet. Geopolitics can never be replaced by our responsibilities and our obligations outside the world. It is a crucial pillar for Norwegian defence and security policy thinking from the standpoint of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1122	The council said in its contribution that it was raised beyond doubt that we need shooting grounds both in the north and south. So a year ago, it was beyond doubt that we had to invest in fighter aircraft and that we had to invest in MTBs now. A year ago, the situation was just as clear as it is today, that it is wisest to postpone these investments and wait until the new investigations are in place and we decide what kind of defense will have. The SV principles for this are that we should have a concept that responds to future defence challenges. There must be consistency between objectives and funds, and the place of investment in a new concept must be clarified before a set of fixed money and structure-locking investments. I think – to be honest – that these are in a way principles that most parties can really join. I also think that when we meet at the next crossroads, it will show that the investments you raise today, among other things. to shooting range and to frigates, perhaps not very wise and forward-looking either. I finally want to ask the Council of State if he feels comfortable as the Council of State by now risking getting into a new big scandal project around the frigate purchase. Isn't it so that it would be wise to wait a little bit now, have some ice in your stomach and see how this goes, and not provide a project that is worth over 14 billion kroner, when there's so much uncertainty about it as it is today? So tomorrow we have to deal with the local economy. So people in the municipalities are going to sit around and figure out how to get a school or shut down a nursing home so you can save some money. And now we're kind of sitting there and letting the billions fly. The contracts are, to put it mildly, relatively unsafe. Does the Council of State feel comfortable with this situation, and will he sit quietly and look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1133	It's strange this thing about SV. They have suddenly become the large system-wide and responsible political party grouping. The truth is that the Swedish Defence Policy is without credibility at all. I would like to ask the representative Andersen if SV would ever go in to bet on frigates. Of course they won't. SV's concept holds, as I have said before, to some backpacks, at best some marshy boots and some bullet that fits into the weapons that can be retrieved from museums. I just want to remind you of the debate on muses once in a while. SV is without credibility in defence policy, I intend to make that clear. Then to the Council of State. There is no particular doubt that the Council of State has its background from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Such a diplomatic handling of it to say no to a fighter flight is really impressive. I believe that the two who have now fought hard about the contract, actually go around smiling and feel that this was really very good for them anyway. It's going to take a while, until they begin to discover that it's long to the next meeting. But there's one thing I want to point to. It is said that yes, there is an imbalance, and the Council of State pointed out that in 2015 there is one penny left for investments if you continue to run according to today's model. The Chief of Defense has also said that, and I agree with him. But it's not going to be much better if you take away hundreds of millions of dollars every year. So it's impossible to plan, and that's what's part of the defense problem. We can agree that there are some structural things that need to be changed, but keeping track of the investment funds when you suddenly get halfway out of the year and the Stortinge has been and picked out 500 million. kr – Restad has looked into his wallet and found out that the 500 million they don’t get anyway, but then you fight for the crowns in other areas – so it’s a little difficult. Then in the answer from the department you've been told that 78 pst. of the allocations on the investment items are legally binding already, and that does not make it any better. When you have to fight with 500 million for the rest of the year. kr less in the investment pot, you have to push on projects, maybe postpone them and maybe cancel more. It is also an unusually bad economy. So the best thing to do was to make sure that what you're saying is to do. A significant amount of money would be saved only by keeping a word, because it will be impossible to plan in the long term when funds are removed year after year only in order to balance other parts of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1143	I understand that both the department and the committee are a little concerned about Norway's reputation abroad, that we are initiating a procedure, in this context to buy new fighter planes, and then suddenly we say no. These things are mentioned in several articles earlier. But I'd like to include a supplement that I think makes it even more dramatic, and that's that the reason from this country up north to stop buying fighter planes is the difficult economic situation in the country. A unanimous committee says that there are no other reasons than economic conditions. And those who hear this down in Europe – in France, Germany, England, Belgium and the Netherlands – what do they think? They know that the country up in the north is swimming in money, that it has 250 billion dollars in shares in Coca Cola and Philip Morris and in other global companies, far better reserves than other countries that also have pay than you go people's security systems. And then they might read a little more, and then they'll know that the Norwegian Finance Minister is worried about the domestic economy, that there's going to be pressure in the economy, and that you have to avoid increasing interest rates – that's exactly what you've got because you haven't listened to the proposals of the Advance Party on tax relief instead of gross wage increases, and tax relief to bring down inflation. After all, they have to twist their heads and think, "What in the world is the strange thing up there in that country, which has foreign economic freedom, extraordinary unexpected and unexplored and unbudgeted billions of dollars in it?" And then there's a fear of the domestic economy! Therefore, a non-aircraft from abroad buys, which has no direct effect on the Norwegian economy if you do not even ask for repurchase agreements and get them. So if they might have the impression that the country is a messy country, interrupting the purchase of fighter planes, as everyone says you need, because you have a bad economy and you owe it to the domestic economy -- yes, they have to ask themselves the question: Is that -- now I was a little in danger of using expressions that the president might not like -- something completely wrong with the thinking of those people there? They just have the opportunity to supply the purchase of fighter aircraft, to make sure they get the necessary defence equipment, because it doesn't matter to the domestic economy. It must be better to have modern weapons and that you have good equipment for the soldiers you still have and who are outsourced by a duty regime. [[President clubs]] In addition Looks like the time was up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1150	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1153	Since there are still six-seven things left on today's map, I'm not going to extend the debate unnecessarily, it'll be late enough anyway. But just very briefly: I want to say I am satisfied with the reaction that the Minister of Defense gave to my post on the frigate purchase and the discrepancy between Bazan and Umoe Lögoder. I said in my post that I had no reason to doubt that the Government will follow up the clear assumptions of the Storting, and that confirmed the Minister of Defence. He characterized my post as going through open doors; in it I then added that he would of course follow up on what was in the committee note I quoted. And I assumed that it would not be necessary to conclude a contract with Bazan if the repurchase agreement is not fully secured, including in particular the assumption that 40 pst. by the frigates shall be built in Norwegian yards and not at the yards of other countries. It also makes me understand the proposal that Karin Andersen made on behalf of SV, proposal No. Nine, that's superfluous. I don't see that there's any disagreement on that question. It is entirely in line with what the Defence Committee has written in the current position, and in order not to risk any misunderstandings, I would ask the SV to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1164	Only a few brief comments at the end of the debate. In connection with the Minister of Defence's security policy analysis, I thought it was very nice to have the right post to Dørum, because it is such that we who live in this country are forced to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We must consider our position in geography while at the same time taking our responsibility when it comes to international operations. The second thing I want to come up with is that this applies to repurchase. It's been central. The Defence Committee took the height of the problems we are currently reading about in the newspapers. Of course, the council will follow up on this, and so it should hopefully be okay. In connection with the repurchase, I want to say that there must not be a sacred cow here in Stortinget. It is beyond doubt that this leads to more expensive contracts. I have seen an estimate of at least up to 5 pst. Repurchase is very important in the context of technology transfer – that we can get a part of it. But at a time when the temperature of the economy is as high as it is here today, it is not certain that it is necessary and wise to take 100 pst. repurchasing only for the purpose of doing things in the country. I think we need to be willing to look at this a little bit more flexibly in the future than what we've done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1175	For the sake of order, let me say I'm 100 pst. agree in the representative's actual comment, for the simple reason that I have said similar things many times in many lectures and in many contexts already. It goes without saying that we also need to look at the importance of our neighbourhoods in a security policy context, and I have, among other things, in this room it was used as a strong argument for seagoing vessels, frigates. The fact that the Norwegian continental shelf area is a very large proportion of the total area of Western Europe means that we need to have larger seagoing vessels after the arrangements negotiated by former Councillor Løwer, who the sitting government has copied on the frigates. So I share that assessment without delay. But the threat picture is still more complex than before, and I have emphasised in this regard our more continental and southern European challenge. It's all part of a whole, where we have to find a balance between the different components. Then the representative Karin Andersen and I will never agree on what she thinks are similarities between the aviation business on the one hand, MTBs on the other, and frigates on the third. There are different issues in the world. The majority believe that we need both fighter planes and frigates, but the fighter planes we can live with longer than the frigates, because they're out of date a lot faster. None of these heavy components in our common defence are questioned in any credible defence analysis. But that's what the head of defense does about the MTBs. He even talks about phase out the entire MTB weapon, and we'll see how he formulates it in the Defense Study. It is clear that I then have obligations to focus on his advice and find out what I am doing with it, without pre-estimating the handling of it in future processes. So these are different steps in the processes. In the case of Mauken-Blötind, I would like to repeat that my starting point is that the field is necessary. Nothing has happened in the military analysis that makes it possible for the regional field tanker to fail, on the contrary, because the slimming down of the number of soldiers, the number of people practicing, is increasingly demanding a form of military practice other than that of standing in one place and shooting at a flash somewhere else. It's weapons species that have to coexist over a larger area, and so it requires a spatial area that's a lot larger than that of simple shooting exercises. And that's what I'm not always completely aware of if the representatives who are heading towards the shooting range are completely aware. You think that a field of fire is a field of fire, because we all know it from the morning, but there's something else we're talking about, and we need at least two fields like that. I have not said that it is easy to solve the remaining pieces of that project in contact with the reindeer interests, but there is obviously a need for a strengthened dialogue, and then we are hoped that it can produce a result. But I'm sure it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1186	I got a little anxious instead and forgot the clock, so I'd like to finish my post. As you probably knew, I find it pointless that, with the very good economic situation, Norway is postponing the decision and progress in the purchase of fighter aircraft. However, there is a reason for this. As far as I know, the government is also concerned that something else has to be found to live off after any oil and gas revenues end, and high-technology is to be one of the areas. I don't want to go into the choice of fighter aircraft supplier – the competition gets to show what's best – but I want to point out that today's Business today on page 4 there is a comprehensive article by Karl Glad, which points out that one of the competitors, Eurofighter, has offered Norwegian industry a partnership that could mean long-term missions and technology transfers to Norwegian companies from this European consortium. In addition to the acquisition of fighter aircraft for our defence, it can also have a long-term industrial policy, technological significance. It is quite different from traditional repurchase, this has to do with developing knowledge and long-term opportunities at a time when it would be desirable and necessary for Norway. This supplier has also been offered at least to make decisions soon, defer deliveries and payments, but could benefit from this technological partnership and cooperation. This is an additional factor that makes it unusually unwise to postpone the decision on the purchase of fighter aircraft even in a commercial context. So the excuse used by the majority is completely hopeless, because it doesn't hold water. We have a good economy in Norway, we have a particularly good foreign economy, and it must be better to go to the acquisitions when the economy is excellent, than eventually when it is less good. And when you can also perhaps contribute to a better basis for creating jobs that we're going to depend on in the future, it's going to be twice as unwise that the bulk of the population is doing tonight or tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1193	Before Hagen goes: there are really two questions for Hagen that made me take the floor. Hagen said in his first post – it was really when I asked for the word – that we were swimming in money. I understand that Hagen has more money than we have, and I perceive that you want to prioritize both fighter planes, MTBs, frigates and all the equipment our Norwegian boys need. All of us politicians know that if you don't prioritize, an abdiser must, and I assume that you will also give priority. For example, how will defence policy investments be prioritised? against hospital equipment? Is it possible to get a description of the priority for the Progress Party? Will everything defence material be given priority over everything else? I think it's a little important to get clarity on that. The other thing about this is that we're going to make a number, that we're not going to use repurchase. I understand that economically that can make sense. But then I ask the representative Hagen, with the experience he has: if the representative Hagen believes it will be politically possible to carry out such large projects as for example. the frigate project, without using Norwegian industry, for example. on the yard side, the Kongsberg Group and all others competent in such a context? I'm actually asking the representative Hagen based on the experience he has, whether he thinks it's possible to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1202	The President understands that this is a matter of great interest and great commitment, not least to the President-in-Office. But you're not going to contact the individual representative, you're going to contact the president. Karin Andersen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1207	I hear from the debate that you don't listen to what you're saying, but you have some idea inside your head and an expectation of what to say, and then you get an answer to that. What I have said is that SV will wait until the Defence Study is completed, and then we will decide which investments we think should be put in place. That's why it's impossible today to say what's most important. But what's most important, should come first and not cover for bolts and randoms, depending on the kind of economy you're doing to squeeze into the different budgets here in the Stortinget. So you can't have it like that. Then I'm very well aware of what a field of fire is, and what it should be. What I am more in favour of is that the Minister of Defense has not been made aware that there are very divided opinions in the defence of these projects too are so important that they need to be started before the Defence Study is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1216	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1219	To answer Gunnar Halvorsen’s question – I will try at least: With regard to investments that have an impact on the Norwegian domestic economy, we prioritise our annual budgets, and we have found room for a sound defence framework and hospital equipment. In addition, in the Progress Party, we say that in terms of investments like purchases from abroad, we have good advice, when we know that it does not have an internal economic impact. That's why we want to buy both planes and all that equipment for the hospitals that we need, because there's no reason why we shouldn't. When it comes to repurchase, we normally support it. But in the current situation, the reason why we don't do it is that the bulk of the population says that we have to suspend the purchase of fighter planes and other things because it has an impact on the domestic economy through repurchase. And that's when we say, it's better to get the planes without repurchase than we don't get them at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1229	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox We shall now leave the ordinary agenda and take up the supplementary agenda. [[Footing, see page 3657]] The matter on the supplementary agenda [[(no 93):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1247	This case concerns the increase in the primary remuneration of the compulsory ratings. The principle of the regulation of remuneration in accordance with the additions provided in the remuneration statement for employees in the country of adult, unskilled labour is followed. This is a consensus within the Committee. It is also agreed that the service supplement will be increased further by NOK 1 per person. day(s) Thus, the Haaker Committee's setting was outlined, followed up, namely 100 kroner per year. in addition to service per day 1 July 2000. The disagreement within the Committee concerns the recovery of the 3 million. This will cost. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, agree with the department in that 3 million. kr is covered within the Defence Budgetary Framework. I am pleased that all parties agree with the actual content of the case, and that the service supplement now comes up to the level expected. The Government also warns that the introduction of a new leave for compulsory soldiers will be assessed in the context of the 2001 budget. The Committee has nothing to say about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1266	When I take the word, it's simply in connection with one penny. The rapporteur pointed out that there was a consensus that we would prefer to give the soldiers 100 kroner per year. day in addition to service. But what a minority, the Advance Party and the Right, have reacted to is that getting this one dollar in place is going to cost $3 million. kr, the majority of which will be taken within the framework. This means that one then has to reduce other operating costs, or one has to reduce investment again. The general rule has been to provide additional services outside the framework, with the exception of a certain operation that took place last year, because it was then cut off on return trips — otherwise it has been the rule. So that's why the minority thinks that the 3 million. One could, like the other kroner of the service supplement, be taken outside the framework. – And it's in all simplicity the krona that turned into $3 million. kr. I'm addressing the minority proposal, as it appears in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1279	The representative Røsjorde has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on the supplementary agenda. We then go back to the ordinary agenda. [[Footing, see page 3657]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1297	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that no line be given to each post. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1300	The need to ensure good animal health management in Norway is justified in several respects. International agreements such as the WTO and the EEA, increased attention on animal protection, a large aquaculture industry and the requirement for efficient and credible management provide a framework for the organisation of animal health management. St. Prop. No 54 sets out the principles to be used to ensure a good service, both for public and private needs. It is necessary to ensure all stages of food production and to have good control and supervision of international trade in live animals and animal products. For our important aquaculture industry, with salmon farming as the preliminary most important, it is essential that we have supervision and control that is credible in those who import salmon from Norway. An overall committee supports these views, as expressed in the proposal for Decision II, where reference is made to Chapters 4, 5 and 7 of the Proposition. The current law on veterinarians dates from 1948, and the Committee agrees that it is mature, not to say over-mature for an audit. In addition, we have received other staff working to ensure good animal health, e.g.: fish health biologists, who will also be subject to a new law. It also promotes proposals for a new watch regime for official veterinary services outside normal working hours, and proposals for increased government budget appropriations to strengthen clinical and public watch. The proposal provides for a three-part scheme: clinical watch, specialist watch and public watch. A well-functioning clinical veterinary service is necessary to detect and report serious animal diseases, acute animal protection matters and illegally imported animals as soon as possible. There is good access to veterinarians in Norway. In order to ensure access also in less covered areas, it is proposed to use economic instruments, with an establishment grant. More and more veterinarians do not wish to renew their watch arrangements under the current regime. In particular, it is the compensation for guards who have caused discontent. In addition, the veterinarians also want to get more organized leisure time, as many other professional groups do. These differences must not overshadow the fact that the veterinarians are a profession which has done and is doing a very good job in society, with high professional quality and loyalty to both authorities and animal owners. The Committee assumes that new watch regimes need to be established in a cost-effective and resource-saving manner. The Committee also considers that the new arrangements should not lead to increased red tape, but should continue to be based on flexible solutions in cooperation with the veterinarians. At the same time, watchkeeping systems must take into account the necessary skills, flexibility and response time. Here, solutions need to be found so that the citizens of Norway and international bodies cannot ask questions about whether we in Norway have taken good care of these concerns. This means that competence must be adequate at all times, that stability is made clear and that response time is kept in order. In the work that is now under way, it is important that one also looks at the division of watch areas, so that, if possible, one can reduce the watch load for the veterinarians and thus give them more wanted leisure time. In this context, a majority of the Committee considers that the increased appropriations provided for in the proposal for Decision I will lead to a better financial compensation for guards. It is provided that the new watch regime will enter into force as from 1 July of this year. As everyone understands, it can be difficult to get this implemented as soon as possible. The Committee also asks the Ministry to see whether the work of animal protection professionals can be strengthened. It has emerged that the budget for the subjects of the year is very tight. In addition, questions have been asked about the increase in the fee on feed for dogs and cats. The current charge is justified on the grounds of ensuring the safe production and placing on the market of this feed. The increase shall, on the basis of the proposal, cover the costs of the new specialist watch. A majority of the Committee shall follow the proposal on this matter. There is uncertainty about how the practical implementation of the new arrangements will be. In addition, it is also uncertain how the economic environment, including the animal feed levy, will turn out. Therefore, an overall committee assumes that the scheme will be evaluated and the results communicated to the Committee during 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1330	From 1971 onward, a national veterinary watch has provided animal owners with assistance for acutely ill animals while at the same time ensuring an official apparatus for preparedness for food contamination and health risks. This watch regime is known by animal owners as effective and reliable, and most believe that it has been reasonable and unbureaucratic. However, the current veterinary replacement scheme is no longer appropriate. Firstly, a strong increase in public administration tasks in the fields of animal health, animal protection and food safety, as well as a marked increase in the number of sports and pet animals, may be examples of a significant change in the requirements of the veterinary watch. And secondly, many veterinarians are deeply dissatisfied with today's watchgivings. They require remuneration for watchkeeping services within the usual economic framework if they are to make themselves available in the future. The Progress Party agrees with the Government in terms of background and prerequisites to promote proposals for new arrangements in this area, because it is important to adapt the framework conditions to govern the veterinary system to the reality of the day. In principle, we support the model of preparedness that is described in the proposition. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that the new watch regimes need to be set up in a cost-effective and resource-saving way and without giving rise to increased red tape. In order to make the new watch arrangements work, a number of instruments have to be used. This applies to both clinical activities and public administrative tasks. Such an instrument must be such that the State Animal Health Authority uses its personnel to perform clinical services in those parts of the country where this is deemed necessary to ensure satisfactory coverage of the veterinary services. The involvement of the official veterinary service is important, inter alia: to have knowledge of local animal husbandry and as part of the development of cost-effective solutions. A well-functioning clinical watch system is a prerequisite for the official veterinary service to be able to carry out its tasks in relation to animal health, animal health and to ensure safe food for the general public. It is therefore essential that this watch operates satisfactorily throughout the country. The Progress Party believes that the Government must facilitate this, and we have made a proposal that district veterinarians participate in the clinical watch where this is necessary to maintain a satisfactory preparedness. The establishment of the new watch services should be based as much as possible on voluntary arrangements. Nevertheless, we will support the Ministry's proposal for a legal basis to allow the provision of watchkeeping services. However, it is important to stress that this possibility must be limited to specific and clearly defined cases. The content of the proposal on future veterinary watch regimes has caused considerable reactions by professionals. The content, intentions and objectives are not proportionate to the financial framework being put at the disposal and, of course, the introduction of an entirely new veterinary emergency, where today's redundancy service is to be replaced by three different watch regimes, will be linked to uncertainty as to what this activity will cost. However, it seems beyond doubt that the economic framework proposed by the Government is too low in relation to the objectives to be achieved. The Progress Party believes that watch compensation must be paid at the level of the usual practice for comparable occupational groups. Furthermore, an establishment grant, if any, should be assessed independently of the framework of the veterinary watch regimes. We are willing to take the economic consequences of this, and are willing to adjust the amount of watchkeeping in line with our views and objectives. I would like to mention the proposal made by the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1351	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1354	I'll briefly mention three themes from the setting. The central party's primary position is that we should not be able to impose obligations on veterinary surgeons and the like for public tasks. However, I would like to mention that the Centre Party will be able to subsidise the views of the Advance Party, which are reflected in their comments, which relate to the introduction of a legal framework that can be used in specific and clearly defined cases, and we will come back to that in the context of the legislative process. As regards the issue of increasing the levy on petfood to finance the so-called specialist watch, the Centre Party will return to it during the budgetary procedure. We are sceptical about increasing that charge, and we understand the responses to such a fee increase, and then for a purpose different from what was stated when the fee was first introduced. The extra 25 million. kr, which is intended to cover both grants for the watch regime and grants for establishment in economically weak areas, is a small amount in proportion to what appears to be the need. It is important that the Storting give a quick feedback on both the function of the new schemes and whether the grants are large enough. More money is probably needed. Poor animal health and poor food safety can be more expensive than using the necessary crowns for a good veterinary watch regime, and it seems clear to us in the Centre Party that additional expenditure on this should not be passed on to farmers, who have received significant bills from the public in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1367	I note with satisfaction that the majority of the Economic and Social Committee broadly supports the main principles set out in St. prp. No 54, on the technical, legal and economic framework for the future management of animal health and the activities of veterinarians and other animal personnel. We are facing major challenges in this area, and it is important, in my view, with clear responsibilities, in particular between public and private tasks. Changes in the framework conditions resulting from international agreements such as the WTO and the EEA and greater public administration requirements underline the need for better framework conditions, including a new law. I am pleased that the majority agrees with the adoption of a substantial financial strengthening by increasing the contribution to the watch regimes from 30 million. NOK 55 million. kr on an annual basis. The State will have the overall responsibility for the proper provision of public and private animal health services to all parts of the country at all times of the day. The proposals for a new watch regime shall cover the needs of both the clinical watch, the specialist watch and the public watch. Overall, this will strengthen animal protection, preparedness for serious transmissible animal diseases and provide the animal owners with an adequate range of services. I have noticed that the Committee points out that it is important that the new arrangements do not lead to increased red tape, and that the watch regimes must ensure the necessary competence, stability and adequate response time. On the other hand, the Committee says that the continued use of combined district veterinarians must outweigh the need for stability. In my view, animal health management in the future must be organised and implemented in a way that ensures stability and international credibility. This is particularly important for the supervision of the breeding industry. I believe that flexible solutions are to be found by the fact that district veterinarians no longer have a legal obligation to conduct practices, but that they can be imposed on practitioners where, after an overall assessment, there is a need for them. I consider it appropriate to stress that the principles on which the new scheme is based provide for a flexible use of veterinary labour in order to provide the necessary assistance for the treatment of sick animals. At the same time, I see it as important that all types of veterinary services, as a whole, operate as cost-effectively as possible and that the organisation aims at a real improvement in the remuneration of guards. Since very much of the assumptions and framework conditions have changed since the development of the current scheme, an overall review of the site is urgent. This can also be seen as part of the assessment of government and services initiated by the Government. Finally, I would like to say that I have noticed that, in the Committee's view, the system should be evaluated both in terms of the economy and organisation during 2002 and that the outcome is communicated to the Stortinget. I agree with that, and I will make sure that it is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1388	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[See page 3659]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1403	In many contexts, the Progress Party has spoken extensively about public sector efficiency measures, such as reorganisation, competitive outsourcing or privatisation. As a general rule, we in the Progress Party are very positive about measures that can streamline and improve the use of resources in public activities, not only because this provides opportunities for savings, which can be used in other areas, but also because conversion measures can improve the quality of users. In this case, a rather significant reorganisation of the activities of state adult education institutions has been proposed. However, we feel very uncertain as to whether the proposed measures will have a positive effect. There are several reasons for this. We see clear gaps in relation to the rise in the border between the proposed new institution and the newly created Centre for Learning and Development. We're skeptical that when you first do a major reorganization, you don't choose to run the line all the way out by failing to provide full geographic co-location. It is reasonable to believe that both professional and economic gains will be greatest through geographical co-location. The State Resource and Adult Training Centre, SRV, is one of the institutions concerned. Per. this institution is currently engaged in significant educational work. As part of the reorganisation, this has been proposed to be substantially reduced. We are aware that a significant part of the education that takes place is done in relation to groups with a migrant background. We are very sceptical about this proposed reduction and fear that SRV's education provision will be further reduced in the future. We want to keep the teaching volume at today's level. To conclude, the Progress Party considers it important to strengthen knowledge and experience in research and development of adult education. This is crucial if we are to succeed in the reform of competences. However, we do not believe that the model that it is added to the proposition is a useful model. We therefore ask the President to table the vote in such a way that we are allowed to vote against the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1422	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3659]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1436	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1445	Document No 8:65 for 1999-2000 by the mayor Odd Einar Dørum, which contains the fact that values created by the Portevesen can also be used outside the single port district and to set up a selection for a wider review of port laws with a view to modernisation and improvement in order to develop efficient logistics, get good land use for urban development purposes and a targeted use of values and revenues from end-of-life activities. A joint committee agrees that port and maritime law needs revision. The Transport Committee also meant the same thing in Innst. S. No 254 for 1996-97. As if that work order wasn't enough, the comment was repeated in the Budget indent. S. No 13 for1999-2000. So one might think that the law audit has taken an unnecessary long time, but the representative Odd Einar Dørum is well aware of who put in government offices most of the time that has passed, I believe. Now, at least the sitting government has got things in the light. The distribution selection is in place, but the committee believes it is the same as the Council of State says in response to Document No. The 8th proposal: Law audit work should be based on a far wider basis than that of the proposer. The Committee has noted that economic resources, such as the Act of 1984, can be used in another geographical area. In this way, we ask that this practice be applied. Document No The 8 proposal, in its content, has a desire to extend the use of port boxes. Document No 8:65 update problems which in principle have such an extent that they should be assessed in the context of the statutory audit. The size ended in the innermost. S. No 254 for 1996-97 that the port cash register could only be used for port purposes. However, the Committee emphasises the need for the delegation of powers in its mandate on the basis of the fact that the large values in today’s port area are created by ports and the development of the port city. The Committee believes that the Committee should have a wider framework in its mandate than that proposed by the Ministry. It is due to the use and distribution of port areas' values and revenues and improvements to port laws with regard to a more efficient logistics and better land use. In addition, the Committee has no comments on the proposal. But when you read the Evening Post on Friday, June 9, you get the impression that someone has already been reflected in any revenue from the plot in Oslo Port, because the comment that follows the proposal makes it quite clear that the proposer has the village of Oslo in mind. I dare remember that a change of laws applies to the whole country. No one in the Committee on Transport, including us in the Labour Party, had difficulty joining Document No. The 8-year proposal by the representative Odd Einar Dørum. The job was, as before, all set in motion. But when it comes to how the money from any floor is going to go, it's probably a good idea to wait to let go of the cheer. Should these be added to a slumped municipal fund, as stated in the newspaper after the interview with the proposer, or does the law audit apply more than Oslo? What kind of consequences do we have if we don't think of the whole country as a whole? We, as national politicians, must, in every respect, bear in mind that the revenue in the port register is generated by maritime transport and its ringing effects. I would be very surprised if we were not to pay attention to this when the proposal for revision of the port and maritime laws comes into operation. Also at sea there are many unsolved tasks to tackle, both port expansion in the rest of the Kingdom, marking fairways, dredging and getting a good map. All improvements in these areas would be preventive when it comes to marine casualties, and it also has a good environmental aspect. Just a few free thoughts from me: one makes fun of having it with. One shouldn't have just two thoughts in your head at once. Here one should grab a lot more and wait to release the cheer when it comes to where the money is going, whether it relates to future infrastructure measures on land or to water.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1479	We in the Group of the European People's Party fully agree with that document. The 8 proposal put forward by the representative Odd Einar Dørum, and we agree that a sample should be set up to look at improving the port law. We also want to look at current practices regarding the use of the economic resources available there. This Document No The 8 proposal is a matter that we will come back to later when the sample has been viewed on all sides of this matter, so we do not take this in advance, as some newspapers have already done. We take no position on any of this today, and we will come back to it later. What I have noticed, however, and which is a little funny, is that the representative Dørum was very concerned about this matter in the period 1995-97, when he was a member of the City Council in Oslo, but when Dørum was the Council of State – and he was even Minister of Transport and later Minister of Justice – in the period 1997-2000, he suddenly did nothing about the matter. We in the Transport Committee did not hear a pipe about any revision of the Port Act, nor did we hear anything about the economic resources that were then bound in the various ports. We didn't hear anything. Only when the government that Dørum was in, had gone off, did he suddenly wish to instruct the new government to work on the matter. It's kind of funny that you're going to come back like that with all of this. But I just have to remind you in the end that it is always better to come late than not to come at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1490	Already in St.meld. No 46 for 1996-97, Ports and infrastructure for maritime transport, the Government then announced that it would carry out a detailed assessment of problems relating to the use of the funds of the port fund and what is contained in the concept of «port purpose». It was also announced that there would be an investigation into the organisation and the form of governance of Norwegian ports. Then time tends to run quickly, while investigations are waiting. In this case, the sample to carry out the investigation has not yet been reduced. Only one internal pre-project has been carried out in the ministry. A comprehensive committee reiterates the need for a revision of the Law on Ports and Waters, and the Committee also expresses its agreement with the proposer that today’s port law does not have the necessary flexibility in relation to the needs currently applying to the development of port areas. As the proposer points out, in some contexts there are strong conflicts of interest in port activities and port development. In particular, this applies to ports in major cities such as Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress the great importance of ports for a coastal nation like Norway, and I would like to stress that there is still a great need for further development and development of the port network in Norway. For the Christian People's Party, the overall objective of environmental policy is to get a greater share of freight away from the road and over by boat. If we are to succeed, it will be essential for the port network to function. Furthermore, ports are very important to Norway as a fishing nation, and I would like to remind you that in the near future the fishing industry will take over oil as our largest export industry. Large investments have been made by society in ports along the coast, and for the Christian People's Party it is therefore important to stress that the purpose of the law is to continue to facilitate the best possible planning, development and operation of ports, and that the size of port charges should be adapted and primarily used for the development of each port. We must not now make loopholes in the law that open up the ports to be tapped for other purposes, and the ports fall due. I assume that this was at the bottom when a collective committee in Innst. S. No 254 for 1996-97 expressed the following: ‘The Committee agrees that in future the funds of the port fund will only be used for port purposes.’;» The Christian People's Party is open today to investigate the use of the port funds, and we realize that there may be a need to nuance the law at some point. The Port Act is unlikely to have the necessary flexibility in relation to the needs of municipalities for land disposal and for efficient logistics for a modern business life, nor does it provide sufficient incentives for linking the port’s tasks as a place of unloading and loading and further transport. The Christian People's Party has great expectations of the law revision that the notified sample will prepare, and we want to get the sample to know the scope of its mission, also in line with what the proposer here wants. However, the main objective must be the best possible planning, development and operation of ports. The Christian People's Party will already signal that the values represented by the ports should be used primarily for coastal purposes, both to facilitate the transport of goods and passengers and to satisfy the diverse needs of the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1514	It's a unanimous attitude, so I'm going to be reasonably short. According to the Norwegian port law, the municipalities own the ports, but the portvesene has until now had a very independent position in terms of the administration of our ports. The fees charged to the port fund or other revenue generated by the port shall be kept separate from that of the municipality, and the funds in the port fund shall be used only for port purposes. This applies not only to the charges and rental income but also to the amounts generated by the sale of port land. The background to this, linked to the port fund and port charges, has been that this should not be a normal municipal income. The fear has been that municipalities might use this for other tasks and thus make maritime transport in Norway less competitive. However, at the same time, developments over time have led to the continued disposal of key areas in many Norwegian cities by the Port Authority, despite the fact that these areas are not used for port purposes. In several Norwegian cities, development is such that you have to re-disposal the areas that you have. This is especially true in some of our big cities. It goes without saying that part of these important areas is part of the ports, both those parts of the port that are in use, and those parts of the port that are not in use. I see it as document No. The 8 proposal aims to adapt today's port law, making it more suitable to meet the area challenges we are now facing, and of course it agrees with the Right. While it is known that the Ministry of Fisheries itself has taken the initiative to amend today’s port law, a unanimous committee believes that the mandate outlined by the sample is somewhat narrow and should be extended somewhat. To this end, the right supports the proposal to extend the mandate with a view to a wider discussion of the Ports Act, an investigation such as: should include the right of disposal of port areas, including the relationship between country and municipality, and the further use and distribution of the values and revenues of port areas. It's hoping this could go fast. Of course, it has to be properly investigated, but it is important for very many of our cities to find a solution to this within a reasonable time frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1531	As many people have been in before me, there is a group committee that is behind the comments in Innst. S. No 229. A collective committee says that port and maritime law needs revision. And when a joint committee says it so clearly, it's a clear signal from the committee that the audit must be carried out. The areas mentioned by the Committee in the configuration, an "open discussion of the use and distribution of port areas' values and revenues, development and improvement of port laws in order to develop an efficient logistics and use of land", I expect to be fully absorbed in the selection work to be carried out. The selection to perform this task is expected to be reduced within a short time. So I see no need to go into the details of the case as Document No. 8:65 is about, but will await the result of selection work. In my view, it's only when the selection work is done, that we have a basis to start discussing details, but I'm glad that a group committee thinks that selection work must have a broad basis, and that one might be able to evaluate areas other than what was initially planned in connection with the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1540	The port situation around the country is quite different, and the problems are often not comparable, but we should not draw any conclusions on this today, as we have asked for a wide and open distribution on this issue. The only reason I take the word now is that I noticed that, among other things. The representative Jan Sahl referred to the previous position and expected to be on it, and what I thought was extremely bold, when we are now discussing the Posten dispatch network and Telenor later this evening. If you expect people to be on previous positions, I expect completely different results tonight from what today's settings suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1547	As several representatives have been involved, my intention has been to get a broad assessment, because the port conditions are different in the country as a whole, and thinking of comprehensive logistics – which is about modern transport – is vital. This is happening in large parts of the country – among others. in the populous areas where we are now – thinking of coherence between port, maritime transport and the road transport to be connected to it, in other words, the whole infrastructure. That's why I raised the question of being able to invest outside the port districts, and I'm glad that, in commenting on the letter from the Council of State, the Committee has stressed that the possibilities that now exist should be used, but I also understand the factual comment that goes on going beyond what you have today's possibilities, it has to be investigated, so that you get a whole. The second question I raised was to make sure that the land use is effective, whatever the purpose. I went into the fact that land development in parts of the country has become such that ports are no longer used only for port purposes, but that it is also such that values in ports are created in addition to developments in the port itself – also from the development of port cities. It has never been intended that the Port Service should operate property management, it is intended to operate a port. For this reason, I am pleased that it has been established that an open discussion should be held on the question of the values ‘on the basis of the fact that the significant land values in today’s port area are both created by the activities of the port and by the development of the port city’. These are the precise points, and I am pleased that the committee has decided. When it comes to comments, I think you're wise to relate to what I'm saying, and I'm saying the same thing here as I'm saying elsewhere, that if the municipalities and the port community are going to agree today, there are opportunities for that, but if you don't agree, yes, there's a conflict, and then you have to wait, among other things. this investigation. I had a challenge about what I did as Minister of Transport. For example, I did. an attempt to prevent a deep hole, which is needed at Bjørvika in Oslo, from swallowing general means of transport instead of being financed by fissures and hard work. I thought that part of this effort would be a exploitation of the property added value in the area, and I thought that I would gain broad support – not least in a big deal where there is a wide representation of districts in transport issues – because it avoids taxing means of transport that are going to go to another place. In Bjørvika in Oslo, this was eaten up, and I can tell you from Stortinget's pulpit that it has also happened in the Oslo area that the Portevesen has received extensions that are not properly regulated, and if you look at it in great detail, you could compensate for these additions and release the areas needed in Bjørvika, so that the opera building does not stand in the middle of a crossroads. As a practical politician, I am concerned with solutions, and the core of this is that when values are created both by port and by property development, one must somehow divide the values in a sensible way – when that is the question. It does not exclude any reasoning that others have had, namely that ports can invest in such a way that they become a complete infrastructure. There are references to such things, among other things. in the Eastfold package, the attempt to finance comprehensive transport solutions, and I also see that there are opportunities to address this in the national transport plan. As real-time politicians, we have to be concerned about getting as much back for the crowns as possible, getting good port operations, good logistics. But in those parts of the country where you operate, as if the world hasn't changed, where, compared to other big cities, you haven't laid out the ports and let the port services use their skills to build infrastructure where it's necessary, you also have to have an assessment of it. I have had no other intention than that the matter should be open and not locked. The Committee has then said that it is not now possible to base what has now been said on the fact that it is exclusively for port purposes. You have to have an open discussion, and then you have outlined important points in that discussion. I am personally very pleased with that. It's also the way, as a final comment to the representative Nistad, that my positions are constant no matter what position I'm in. But as the representative Nistad is well known, the ports belong to the Ministry of Fisheries and not to the Ministry of Transport. I hardly reveal any public secret when I say from this pulpit that I had my views in connection with the national transport plan, but that was not the reason for the Stortinge to get acquainted with me at the time I was the Council of State. Then I continue untrustworthy of what I believe in, in other roles, and it's probably a mentality that most representatives will recognize. You don't leave your conviction even if you have different roles.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1564	The Law on Ports and Waterways shall ensure that ports can operate maritime transport and business in coastal areas and that ports can serve as connecting points within an integrated transport system. In this transport system, ports are necessary to ensure maritime transport, and let me remind you that maritime transport generally requires less land and infrastructure than land transport. Furthermore, noise problems are of limited scale. Norway must therefore at all times have framework conditions which ensure and develop maritime transport infrastructure. In this context, I would like to mention that other countries are also concerned with the benefits of maritime transport when assessing a comprehensive transport service. The use of seas and inland waterways in Europe is therefore being pursued. As Minister of Fisheries, I am responsible for the regulation, etc. kept up-to-date and suitable for regulating the respective area in accordance with social development. I agree that the Law on Ports and Waterways is ripe for revision. Work is in progress on the revision of the law. An internal pre-project has been carried out in 1999 in the Ministry, and the composition of a committee for further investigation has now been completed immediately. The work on the revision of the law called for by the representative Dørum is thus well under way. What remains is to decide to initiate the selection process itself, and this decision is now taken. With regard to the possibility of using financial resources from a port district in another geographical area, such an option already exists under the applicable port law. The limitation of the use of the port register only for port purposes does not imply an unconditional geographical restriction in the sense that the funds of the port fund can only be used within the boundaries of the port district. For example, in the case of inter-municipal port cooperation, a single port fund may be established for use in the overall port district of cooperation. Furthermore, several of the questions raised by the representative Mr Dørum in his Document No. Eight proposals, already under the mandate of the legislative committee. This applies, inter alia, to: the issue relating to the management of the port fund. A central point in this context is the transport costs of business. It's business that's the real users of the ports. By way of taxes and charges to the port, users have financed the funds held in the port register and thus make it possible to operate today's port operations. This principle, together with the principle that the port fund should be used for port purposes, is the Stortingen which has been established by the applicable port and water law. Major changes in this principle will necessarily have a direct impact on the transport costs of business. When the ports were municipalised, 15 years ago, the assumption was that they would still retain extensive autonomy in business and economic matters. Ports are essential for maritime transport and for Norwegian business. Therefore, we must not allow the framework conditions for maritime transport to deteriorate and thus adversely affect the competitiveness of industry. We must have comprehensive, long-term and predictable framework conditions. The State shall guarantee this by virtue of the Law on Ports and Waterways. If maritime transport is to be a real alternative to land transport, ports must be an effective part of a comprehensive transport system. Within this objective, the sample which will now be working on a revision of the Port and Water Law will have to address all the questions that need to be updated. Moreover, I believe that the sample should not be bound up more than the work carried out can be carried out on a free and professional basis. Let me add that a new port and water legislation should first and foremost define the principles of public regulation of the port and sea areas. A new legislation should be designed as a framework law, which will allow for the adaptation of the details of legislation in the light of developments in transport needs and trade as well as technical and safety aspects. An illustration of the need for a revision of the Port and Water Law and a conscious view of the opportunities offered by maritime transport and ports in terms of transport services is the situation in Oslo. On the one hand, the Oslo port administration is putting great energy into securing the port's land and revenues, so that port operations can be a real alternative to land transport. On the other hand, municipal politicians want to drive urban development in port areas. Let me make sure that I understand both of them and understand that it has become what it is. The situation in Oslo shows that there is a need to clarify the relationship between the municipal interests and the State interests associated with the ports and the overall transport planning. I believe it must be possible to facilitate both transport and urban development if you really want to do so. This, however, requires cooperation, and one does not go further if each side is to stand steep. I have therefore invited Oslo Municipality and Oslo Port to a meeting next week to discuss the further process and cooperation on the development of Oslo Port. My prerequisite for the meeting is that it is possible to come up with solutions, and I do not accept that this cannot be done. In this context, it is important to be aware of the importance of ports not only to the host city but to the whole surrounding region. This may be particularly true for Oslo port, which serves an area of significant industry and business, and thus an area of high transport demand. I remind you that Oslo Port is one of eight national ports. The status of national ports was determined by the Stortinget treatment of St.melding. No 46 for 1996-1997 Ports and infrastructure for maritime transport — precisely in view of their importance for the whole country. The place of Oslo port in this context is indisputable. It's the country's largest freight port. That is, it is the largest port for handling the type of goods that concerns most of us to day. National ports, of course, also play a very central role in relation to the region in which they are located. Norway has to rely on the development of strong regions, and ports play an important role in this respect. They form hubs for transport activities to and from the rest of the world and for the development of business in the region. The municipalities, on their part, must therefore also think regionally about the ports. In this context, I would like to point out the possibilities under the applicable port and water law for cooperation between municipalities on port issues. Intermunicipal port cooperation will facilitate regional thinking and planning. In this way, it will also be possible to make better use of existing port resources, thereby providing better and cheaper infrastructure for maritime transport. By allowing for better exploitation of port resources in intermunicipal port cooperation, there are also good opportunities for both urban development and forward-looking port activities without unilaterally taking into account urban housing and recreational needs. Effective transport in Norway and abroad is crucial for the value creation and development of Norwegian business. It is therefore important to continue to develop maritime transport and ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1599	Of course, I am aware that today's position is primarily about an open discussion of the issue of the significant area values that lie in today's port area, created by both commercial activities and the development of the port city, but that it is also about an investigation committee to get – what the Council of State said – a free and professional mandate. I am an Oslo representative and therefore impatient on behalf of the fjord city. I hope that too is an understanding of that. Because what lies behind opportunities in this case is of great importance to Oslo, and of course it can also be of great importance to all other cities that have a port. But, as you're probably familiar with, the city council in Oslo has decided that Oslo is going to work to realize a fjord city. The port activity currently located in Oslo must then be moved to other parts of the region in order to accommodate the new dwellings, the free space and the working space envisaged. It requires that the values of Oslo port services can be used outside Oslo port district. A bomb is being put on with today's legislation, if you don't, after what I've been informed, can form an inter-municipal port company where Oslo port authorities are involved. Oslo and other cities need to re-disposal a lot of land. The port law does not have the necessary flexibility in relation to these needs. I think the proposer is right when he points out in the proposal that there are enough – at least too many – examples of significant errors and overinvestment in the port sector. Central areas of Norwegian cities are still disposed of by the port services, even if they are not used for port purposes. This can neither be reasonable nor reasonable. The council said he was going to have a meeting with the Municipality of Oslo pretty soon. I have received feedback from the City Council that they feel that they have been met with positive views in the Ministry of Fisheries and with the intention of looking at the challenges of Oslo. This is not least important in order to free up areas in Bjørvika so that they can be re-disposaled. It is a pleasure, and the attitude of the City Council that they have been met by the Ministry of Fisheries represents a change of course. It represents a change of course in relation to the Bondevik government, because Angelsen was perceived as very negative. So we can now have hopes, at least I have, that the investigation committee that is now finally going to start will actually propose changes to the port law, so that Oslo can realize the fjord city. I should like to commend the rapporteur, Odd Einar Dørum, for the initiative he has taken in this matter. At the same time, I must remind you that Dørum and the centre parties put two and a half years in government without having them put that sample down, although it was well notified from 1996 onwards. This may indicate that it may be easier to pursue urban policies outside government than in the government position. The most important thing is that the process is now under way and that it is not moving slowly, but rapidly forward, so that we can have the necessary legislative changes that need to be made, and that the government in the meantime interprets, as Dørum was also involved, the existing legal and regulatory work as smoothly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1612	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[Fotation, see page 3660]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1626	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1635	There is always a great deal of interest out there among people when changes in the Post are on the political agenda. The issue that is being dealt with today is no exception to it, although it cannot in any way measure itself by the involvement that was out in District Norway in 1996 when the Stortinget transformed the Post to Post Norge BA. As a backdrop for tonight's debate, there may be reason to note that when the Post was transformed into a special law firm, the influence of the Storting on the Post's operations was limited. It's a fact that the Post is part of our culture, especially in the districts. There's a lot of heroic stories about the Post. The post is to be trusted. Although both sender and receiver are dead, the Post has eternal life. We're all the same for the Post Office, the Post Office takes us seriously no matter who we are, and where we live. This is how the Post has been in our hearts. Maybe it's a myth. But we see the outlines of a picture that the Post is the big, safe and always present servant. In 1997 Posten Norway celebrated its 350th anniversary. The establishment of the Post was a symbol that Norway was about to become a modern state. The state took responsibility for communication between citizens, and between citizens and the centre. Tastes from Posten's history are thus the story of Norway. A peculiar feature of postal history and in terms of the modern Post is a mixture of modern and old. From the very beginning, we find questions about private or state operations. Another feature of the Post is the link between national and international. There is something deep at our post office, while the post office has constantly crossed the national borders. When Stortinget is dealing today with the Posten dispatch network, it is another example that we are being caught by the development. Competition from other postal operators is increasing and customers’ demands for postal services are increasing as new opportunities are created by the technology. Developments are creating new challenges, but also new opportunities. The decline in traffic in the traditional despatch network has been evident in recent years. We've all been involved in contributing to this decline. We're using other controls. This is an important moment that the Post obviously has to take into account, and a moment that most of us accept. The reason why this case is now being submitted to Stortinget is that it is so extensive. The conversion currently in progress involves an increased commitment to contract operations by laying down 450-600 new post offices in their ordinary form. This conversion affects a large number of employees. As presented in the notification, this figure is very uncertain, but this may involve 2 500 annual works or 3000 people being affected by this conversion. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party, are very concerned that the role of employees in this process should be taken into account. The majority have therefore placed great emphasis on the need for transparency around this conversion. Post employees have been through conversions and uncertainties for their jobs for several years. It is then important, in the majority's view, that the Post builds up a conversion device to meet the challenges on the staff page. The majority have also found it appropriate to stress the importance of the plurality of treatment. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have, on their side, found reason to stress that the strong protection of the position of employees in the Post has prevented a gradual downsizing, so that the company is now struggling with a large number of outnumbered employees. I must say that this is quite a rough message to give employees in the post office, who already have a difficult working day. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Ministry that the Post must function well as a nationwide enterprise, and the administrative functions must also be nationwide. By this we also mean decentralised authority. The majority of the Committee believes that this is a prerequisite for bringing about the major changes that are about to take place. It is simply a matter of people working in the counties having to feel close to the business they are serving. It is again established that all municipalities in the country must have at least one post office or contract post office. This must be an indispensable requirement. During the last few weeks of the debate on the Posten despatch network, there have been signals from central employees in the Posten that the Posten intends to limit the number of residents in the municipalities as a criterion for which municipality should have a post office. This is strange and unsatisfactory to the majority of the Committee. This may result in large parts of several counties not having regular post offices. In this country we have a challenging geography, and therefore we have found to note that population numbers do not have to be a criterion alone. In the message, the country postal service is mentioned to the extent, but not as part of the message we are now processing. The majority of the Committee considers it important to highlight the important role of the country postal service, and underlines its importance even more after the conversion of the dispatch network. And we have put in as a premise that these services are passed on with the same level of service and quality. For many, the country postal service itself is the Post Office, because it has a combination of distributing and despatching. The majority of the Committee, in its opinion, has argued that the main objective of the new despatch structure is an offensive commitment to increased availability and better supply to customers now that the number of postal sites, after all, is increasing. An increase of 200 postal points is significant. We expect this increase to come both in urban areas and in districts, as the report shows, i.e. across the country. With several post offices that have extended the opening time, customers can use the Post Office services to a much greater extent than before, and we consider this to be positive. When converting the Post dispatch network, the requirements set out in the Post concession must be taken into account. The basic postal services must be available to the entire population, throughout the country. There is no reason to believe that this is not both Posten's and Ministry's assessment. For many years, there has been a strong political interest in public service agencies. The Committee on Transport has called for such a system on several occasions, without resulting in fixed arrangements. The majority of the Committee is pleased with the strong signals that have now come from the Government on the occasion of the case. The majority of the Committee believes that it is now necessary to develop key guidelines for the implementation of the establishment of a public service agency. We believe that it is a prerequisite for success that the state enters a basic package of services from state agencies to set a standard for these offices. However, when we have some perceptions of the conversion of the Post's network of despatch, it is absolutely certain that this is governed by the Post's proposal. It is also certain that the post-employee organisations have joined the existing proposal. We trust that this work will be carried out in a satisfactory manner, as Stortinget has previously believed. The tasks assigned to society shall be carried out for the benefit of Post's customers throughout the country. In the Workers' Party, we are very pleased that the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Centre Parties, the SV and the Workers' Party, agree with the main features of postal policy. There will still be challenges in this area, and then it is important to have predictability in what direction we are going. The Tradition Faith has suggested that the Right Party and the Advance Party should convert Post Norge BA into a limited liability company. The Labour Party is pleased that this proposal does not receive a majority this time either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1677	The Progress Party welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Transport will now reorganise the Posten despatch network after the Management Board and the Business Meeting in Posten Norge BA are in favour of a significant reorganization of the despatch network. Developments are generally characterised by rapid technological development, changing customer requirements, increasing competition and internationalisation, where technological innovation is an important driver of market and competition developments. We see that electronic mail is now increasingly being used by more and more people, and that the Post Office's exclusive jurisdiction is likely to represent a relatively lower share of future turnover due to the assumption that areas such as IT services and light goods will have a higher growth rate in the area of exclusive rights. The market for transporting packages up to 30-40 kg has shown a steady growth in recent years. Developments are generally characterised by increasing competition and increased demands for speed and quality, which we in the Progress Party believe benefits users in terms of better and cheaper services. We are also concerned that, as long as social service requirements are met, the Post must have a great deal of freedom to develop its service provision and to choose the most efficient and appropriate means in individual cases, and to conclude different types of alliances and cooperation agreements. The exclusive right of the Post is subject to the concession that social demands are met in return for exclusive rights, but we see that there are problems in calculating the costs associated with the purchase of unprofitable postal services by the State. The Progress Party believes that this problem must be addressed, and that the purchase of unprofitable postal services by the State must be put out of competition. The principle must be that the country should purchase basic postal services in those parts of the country where there is no commercial basis for such services. The Progress Party believes that as long as Post Norway BA has a monopoly on nationwide communication of closed addressed letters up to 350 grams, the unit tariff for this group of postal items is maintained. If the monopoly ceases to exist, it must be a condition for the concession holder to maintain the single tariff system within the country's limits for the transmission of closed addressed letters up to 350 grams. The Progress Party considers it important to enable the Post to meet the major challenges that the company faces in the years ahead. It is expected that competition from foreign players will increase and that the integration of the postal services market will continue internationally. At the same time, the limits on postal products are weakened in relation to other products. There is reason to believe that there will be developments in the postal sector parallel to those in the telecommunications sector. It is important here to reduce the cost level of meeting the tough competition of large foreign players and to achieve the quality objectives set for the company. Unable to compete on quality in central strata of the country and generate profits from this market, the Post will have implications for its ability to provide good services in districts. The challenge does not consist of providing postal services in central lines, where there is a commercial basis for this type of service. The challenge is to provide services where there is no commercial basis. In order to master these challenges, it is important that the Post is organised in such a way that the board of directors and the administration have the greatest possible scope of action to allow the management of the enterprise to quickly capture and implement the measures necessary to maintain the competitiveness of the enterprise on a continuous basis. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to convert the Item from management to AS. The greatest difference between the type of company of the Post and a limited liability company is linked to the staff side, and in particular to the State Contracting Authority. The post is a very staff-intensive company, where approx. 65 pst. the costs incurred are staff costs. In terms of reliability of delivery, the Post is facing major challenges at the lower end of 80 p.m. of the ‘A’ item arrives at the recipient at the agreed time. This is far below the target of 93 pst., as the Stortinget has stated. The entry received 580 million in 1999. kr from the State in order to meet these objectives, and the Progress Party believes that it is wrong that the Post should receive compensation as agreed when the Post does not provide the services assigned to it. This gives wrong incentives to the Post and gives false signals to the other contracting parties of the State. It is important that the Post focuses on achieving the quality objectives set for the company. It is not acceptable that the Post as a State monopoly should be able to redefine the quality objectives when the company does not meet the quality objectives set by the Stortinget. The post has recently instructed customers to move the mailboxes placed by owner-occupied dwellings into the assembly stands in the vicinity. This is perceived by many customers as a deterioration in the Posten's service offer. The propulsion party can only accept a conversion to a assembly stand if this is necessary to give customers a better quality of service. It is not acceptable that the Item reduces the level of service according to the desire to reduce its obligations towards customers. There are differing views on income requirements and dividend policies in the case of state-owned companies organised like BA and AS. This concerns the relationship between supporting a company and simultaneously taking dividends from the same company – give and take. In an AS, the board determines the dividend, while there is more doubt about this in the BA operating form. The Progress Party does not consider it a task for Stortinget to decide on the number of points of dispatch. This is a task which the Management Board must decide on in the context of concessional, quality and service objectives and business assessments. The progress is positive that stores and service stations take over as dispatch points instead of offices operated by the Post itself. Such conversion will lead in many places to the availability of postal services for a larger part of the day and will lead to better postal services. I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party that Stortinget asks the Government to convert Post Norway BA into a limited liability company.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1703	The representative Stensaker has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1706	For the Christian People's Party, the future organisation of the Posten's network of expeditions is a very important matter. We are committed to ensuring that as much as possible access to a post office with the most important postal services is reasonably close. Whether this post office is called Postal Trade, or whether the post is added to a store or a public service office is subordinate. What matters is that citizens have access to postal services. The background for the reorganisation is focussed on increased accessibility, and it is a good starting point. We have noticed from the Christian People's Party that the new plans involve a larger total number of posts. It's positive. We have also registered that there should still be a post office offering all the important postal services and basic banking services in each municipality. It's also very important. The future network of dispatch of the item shall consist of different offers: mail, Post in Store and Posten Company. A new post office with an extended service offer will become a postal trade. There, customers shall have access to all postal services and basic banking services. But Postal will also offer a range of goods in addition to what we find today in ordinary post offices. The establishment of 300-450 offices for Posthandels. The Business will be targeted at the business market, and it has been set up for the creation of 30-50 offices. Postage in Stores will constitute the main gravity of the posts. A minimum of 1 100 such posts shall be established, together with posts in public service offices. Mail in Stores shall provide the basic postal services. For most people it is more important to have access to postal services than to have a separate post office. For many, Post in Store will offer a better offer than a regular post office, mainly because Post in Store will often have longer opening hours, but also because it will be co-located with the store. The plans of the post also mean that one will facilitate the local authorities to take over the post office and rebuild it to a public service office. It is also in this context that employees can be offered a new job. For the Christian People's Party, public service offices are something the municipalities themselves have to decide on. We are far from sure that there will be so many municipalities that will set up such offices quickly. Therefore, Post in Storek is likely to be the dominant offer for most people. The post has offered the state and municipalities to take over between 200 and 300 post offices with premises and employees. I consider it unlikely that so many municipalities will be interested in investing in public service offices in the reasonable future. The economic situation in most municipalities does not mean that investments in new premises and the creation of new offices will be carried out with the first. The conversion will affect up to 3000 persons. It is important that employees are withdrawn and kept informed about the work on the conversion. From the Christian People's Party we have also noticed that there have been no negative reactions to the conversion of employees. I am afraid that the Post's plans are too much based on employees going to public service offices, and I hope the Post is prepared to meet the challenges that come if it turns out that only a few municipalities choose to take over both office premises and employees to set up public service offices. The switchover will lead to new problems, including: related to pre-selection voting. The government has announced that they will come back to it, and we await it. It is very important that provision be made for everyone to continue to vote in advance in his or her own municipality and that appropriate premises and qualified staff are provided for this. The Right Party and the Advance Party propose to convert the Post to a limited liability company. The organisation of the Post is not a general question for the Christian People's Party, nor the corporate form. For us, the provision of postal services to the population is crucial. The postal service currently has exclusive rights to a significant part of the postal services. This exclusive right provides Posten with a basis for profits in parts of the country, and this is part of the basis for them being required to make a good offer in the concession to the whole country. An organisation such as an AS requires increased emphasis on profitability and performance in the Post. For the Christian People's Party, in this context, profitability is not the most important thing. First of all, the Post must offer a good offer to the Norwegian people. The organisation as an AS does not guarantee that the offer will improve. The conversion of the Post’s despatch network intends to improve the efficiency of the operation of the Post. The total number of posts has increased. It's positive. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the objectives of postal policy are set. This conversion shall not lead to a lower offer for the individual citizen. The transmission time targets shall be set. The requirement for six days a week distribution shall also be fixed. The dispensation that the Item has for distribution in areas where there is a very long distance between the inhabitants should be considered and at least no opening should be provided to extend the exemption. The government has announced that it will present a big message about the Post for the autumn. Many headlines in different media give reason to consider whether the offer made by the Post is in line with the Stortinget’s wish, especially in out-of-hand routes. We need to get back to this in the context of the treatment of the forthcoming big business message.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1742	Right will underline the importance of enabling the Post to meet the major challenges it faces in the years ahead. It is expected that competition from foreign players will increase and that the integration of the postal services market will continue internationally. At the same time, the limits on postal products are weakened in relation to other products. There is reason to believe that there will be developments in the postal sector in parallel with those in the telecommunications sector. It is therefore necessary to reduce the level of costs. It is a prerequisite for meeting the tough competition of large foreign players and for achieving the quality objectives set for the company. Unable to compete on quality in central strata of the country and generate profits from this market, the Post will have implications for its ability to provide good services in districts. The challenge does not consist in providing postal services in key areas, where there is a commercial basis for this type of service. The challenge is to provide services in the districts, where there is no commercial basis. On the right, the importance of the Post providing qualitatively good services across the country and at uniform prices will be stressed. It is important that the Post focuses on achieving the quality objectives set for the company. In the Right's view, the task of the Storting is to set quality and service objectives for the Post Office and to purchase unprofitable postal services. The right considers that it is not a task for the Storting to decide on the number of points of dispatch. It is a task for the board to decide within the framework of its quality and service objectives and business assessments. The right is positive that shops and service stations take over as dispatch points instead of offices operated by the Post itself. Such conversion will lead in many places to the availability of postal services for a larger part of the day, leading to better postal services. The right assumes that the country postal services will continue at the same service and quality level. The right is skeptical about transferring postal services to public service offices. Public service agencies have inter alia: shorter opening hours than shops and service stations, which may be a much better option as a postal dispatch point. By opening mail at public service offices, the Post may claim to some municipalities. If the municipality does not take over the operation of the Post through a public service office, the site may not be a place of dispatch. In such a situation, municipalities may feel pressured to take over the personnel and costs with which the Post wants to dispose. This will not apply to municipalities with only one dispatch point, as the Post concession requires that there should be at least one dispatch point in each municipality. In the view of the Right, postal services shall not be a municipal task. It's a state problem. It is also not a municipal task to take over surplus staff from the Post. In a future liberalised European postal market with competition for all types of postal services, postal services at public service offices could conflict with the principle of a level playing field. The post is facing major challenges as a result of plurality in several areas of activity. At the same time, there is a significant shortage of labour in Norway. The strong protection of the position of employees in the Post Office has prevented gradual redundancy, so that the company is now struggling with a large number of persuasive persons. The right does not see the need for the Post to set up its own conversion unit when the labour market seat has the competence to re-train and redeploy the surplus to other jobs. The right will indicate that Telenor, a limited liability company, has met competition in the market, has succeeded in adapting the number of employees to the level of activity. The same cannot be said about the Post and NSB, which are organized as BA. The right believes that the Post would be better equipped to meet the major challenges the company faces, if the company had been organised as a share company. The postal market adaptation and consumers’ requirements for nationwide postal services at the best possible quality and the lowest possible price imply that Posten’s monopoly services are subject to healthy competition. Therefore, the right-hand party meets the winding-up of the exclusive field of the Post Office, but will at the same time introduce a concession scheme to ensure that consumers throughout the country are provided with nationwide basic services. If such a development is not initiated by enlargement and government, the EEA Agreement will subsequently impose such a development. The EU will allow for much more competition in postal services, and Norway needs to implement similar liberalisation in the postal market. Today is just 3 pst. of the EU postal market open to competition. By 2004 20 pst. market opening, and an even greater share by 2007, without a percentage. The main point of the proposal is that the monopoly of national postal services on the dispatch of letters is severely restricted. National postal services in the EU are entering a period of severe change. About 17 pst. of the Norwegian market currently monopolised will be the subject of competition if Norway is to comply with the EU decision. Konsernschef Kaare Frydenberg in Posten welcomes the decision in the EU. ‘I think this proposal is perfectly OK. I want competition in all markets and expect full liberalisation of postal services in five to six years. We're just going to make sure that we're competitive in this situation too." This is what Frydenberg says to Today's Business on 31 May this year. This is promising, but then the Storting must enable the Post to meet the competition that is coming. In this context, I refer to the proposal made by the Right and the Advance Party in the suspension, to convert the item into a limited liability company.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1799	During the period 1996-99, a major restructuring of the Post Office's network of dispatches took place. When Stortinget i St.meld. No 37 is informed of a new comprehensive restructuring, which means that the Post will change its shipping network considerably compared to what we know for just a few years. We look at statistics on the development of services carried out at the post offices today, compared to, for example, ten years ago, we see that the services performed have been more than halved. Electronic services offered, e.g. via mini-banks, payment terminals, telephones and the Internet, have taken over many of the services that post offices previously owned. Studies show that the decline in transactions carried out by post offices will continue for years to come. The sharp decline in transactions at post offices has consequences for the despatch network. The monopoly area of the Post has also been severely restricted, so that the Post is experiencing increasing competition from other postal operators. The Posten despatch network conversion message will be sent as a matter of fact relatively shortly before the fallout gets a message about the Posten activity. In the centre we had desired that these two messages had been handled at the same time. Then we could look at different aspects of the postal service and get a good connection with what is the total postal service provision for the inhabitants of different parts of the country. When the messages arrive at different times, however, we do not have to forget the totality of service provision. When it is now proposed to create new post offices, I understand that residents around the country react and fear that the post office will get worse. A positive element in the current proposed conversion is that even if the number of post offices operated by the Post itself should go down, several contract locations will be created. In total it will be approx. 200 more places where it is possible to perform postal services, compare with today. I assumed that the new contract locations would be spread throughout the country. I would like to stress that it is not necessary for large districts to become without post offices that the Post itself will operate. Public service offices and Post in Store e.l. shall provide the basic services of the Post and all municipalities shall have at least one post office or contract post office to provide basic services and basic banking services. In addition to this, it is necessary to ensure that all districts are adequately covered by other services that the Post will provide, such as: consultancy, damage and life assurance products and new savings programmes. I also argued that after this conversion, there would be a decentralised structure for administrative settings. When implementing such extensive changes as this message, it is important to focus on service levels and accessibility for the public. Changes to the structure are easier to accept if you know that the level of service and access to the services is not getting worse than before. This must be an inconspicuous requirement. An important part of the service provision to postal customers is the postal delivery service. Yes, some people think that too many people think this is the most important part of the post office. In the redirection network notification, there is nothing about changes to the mail redirection service. It is crucial for the provision of services to postal customers that the country postal service works well. Over several years, we have been working on the establishment of a public service office where the post office could enter as one of the services offered. Work on the establishment of service offices needs to be intensified. I am aware that several places in the country have gone a long way, but key guidelines on how this work can be carried out should be provided as soon as possible. And it's urgent if public service offices are to become a real alternative to the provision of postal services. The planned conversion of the despatch network will lead to the loss of some 3000 jobs. Then it is important to carry out a thorough and good process in which they can join their organisations closely in the work. The post has offered municipalities/states to take over the vacancies and to add them. Some local authorities may be in a position to take over the vacancies and to add them, but this will be far from the case everywhere. As a result, local authorities should not be given a primary responsibility for taking over the local authority and adding one that becomes vacant when the Post is to be restructured.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1820	Give us our daily mail every day – at least on weekdays. Give us our reservation services, the ones we still need, without having to travel around the country to find a destination. There is a lot of this, namely the standard of postal services, availability. Everyone acknowledges that the need has changed. We use new technology, our visits to the desk are getting fewer and fewer, and the Post Office's revenues are getting smaller and smaller. We recognize that we need to have a rational way to organise these services. The post-debate is no longer about defending barriers, post-offices for post-offices and tapes. It's about a new way of organizing. Post offices have disappeared as a dog in the sunrise, with firm hands from directors, former central party politicians such as Reiten and Stangeland. And no one protests tonight. The world isn't like it once was. I should therefore not be quoting previous settings. There are positive moves in the message, positive moves that point to a better service, including: there will be more points of despatch. So the trend of fewer points of dispatch is turning around, and availability is getting better. There are positive moves in the case of public service offices, there are signs of a expressed willingness to get them in place. Now it has to be said that there has been a positive will before as well. I have worked with public service offices in relation to four governments, and it has been willless without ability to act – a lot of empty talk, without visible results. Why am I occupied by public service offices? Well, because they're something more than postal services. Had it only been the postal services, I don't think I would have been so busy with them. It is about creating a small splinter layer, where the customer is given better access to public services – to government services such as social security offices, equality offices, labour market offices, etc. and to municipal services, preferably library services. You can combine public services that are found in one place. The customer gets good availability, good quality – all in one place. It may help to maintain services that are threatened by centralisation, including services other than postal services. I have to say that I do not understand Right-wing fear that someone will be without a post office if the municipality does not want to take over – no, then the Post must establish a dispatch point in the store or at a gas station. Now it's like that, I have to admit, that the gas stations probably have longer opening time than public service offices are going to have, sail if I think we need to reform the opening hours in the public sector as well. But I have to say, I'm a little bit in doubt about the standard. At the gas stations, they don't even have things to do with cars, all they can do is sell sausages with bread. I think there's a positive move in the Government's proposals. It's a greater willingness to get to a state package. Before, things had to be done locally, and then they depended on the goodwill of the regional managers, among other things. in the state floors – and the goodwill was small. You need to override the central grip. Furthermore, the Post has offered several hundred post offices and numerous post employees – with competence – to public service offices. It could also involve working solutions for the overwhelming, for those who are left out of work — at least for some of them. I believe that the Right and Advance Party show great arrogance in relation to the persuasion when they reject an internal conversion unit and attack the job protection. But back to the public service offices. I have some objections, at least I have one important concern: the timing clamp. I fear that public service offices are not in place until the closures start. If the Post has already established itself in stores and in gas stations, it becomes more difficult to get to public service offices. The post is an important piece in the public service offices, and the Post Office's participation here is important in order to make use of the competences of post-employees – it is important for them personally too, those who become unemployed have an alternative then. I do not have the majority in the committee to look at this in order, and perhaps try to postpone the closure of the post offices a little bit to get public service offices in place first. Otherwise, there's a lot of positive things here. We have a broad majority who will ensure that all basic services and banking services are available in all the municipalities of the country, and we have a broad majority who will emphasise the need for small and medium-sized enterprises across the country, not only where competition is high, etc. We also have a better setup, as I said before, for the state's participation in public service offices, but it requires a quick follow-up from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1852	For the left, it is important that we have a nationwide range of channels for mail, which secures households and businesses across the country, basic postal services of good quality and at reasonable prices. The item faces major challenges to satisfy increased demands from customers in terms of service provision, quality and accessibility. At the same time, there is a need for a network of expeditions that is more flexible in relation to future traffic development and income base. The left will stress that one of the most important challenges is to address the societal demands effectively and effectively. One becomes almost nostalgic when you see the Poster's web structure suggestions. We can go back to the nearby store to perform postal services we need. The change from my childhood to today is that the locals are open a lot longer, as well as that we have a country post office to make sure we don't have to go to the store every day, if only to pick up the mail. The expected increase in the number of places where people can get their mail services done in the store’s opening hours will be able to give customers overall better service and accessibility. In recent years, BA has still been in transition. There will always be a need for change to meet tomorrow's challenges, but it is now important that a grip that makes it prudent for customers, and not least for everyone added to the BA. The municipalities in question and where they are added must be involved in the further process. For the Left, it is important to specify that the service and quality level of the country postal service will be continued and that the service requirements laid down in the concession requirements will be limited to the extent to which the Post may go in terms of improving the efficiency and conversion of the network structure. All basic and basic banking services should be available in all municipalities in the country. The same applies to other requirements relating to service provision, transmission times, postal distribution, etc., which must be fulfilled. We are constantly getting feedback from our customers when it comes to the service requirements, but we will be able to give our comments on when we are going to manage a groceries message about the Posten's business. The BA post office wants the state/municipal authority to take over between 200 and 300 post offices with a local office and to add them. Left supports creating public service offices. But here it is important to clarify that in such a conversion of municipal and state enterprise, the state must be a greater driver than what is happening today. Several municipalities have taken initiatives to coordinate public enterprises in their own service offices. It is therefore important to use the experience they have gained. Overarching public service objectives is not primarily a streamlining of public resources, but coordinating to provide better service to users of public services. However, the consequence of coordination of public services is usually more efficient and thus more resource-free, which can be used for the benefit of customers. The left sees that the competence of the Post may be relevant within the Service Office Model. But we still have to stick to the main goal of the model: simplification and higher levels of public services. Finally, on the right was the concern that one would reduce the opening time at public service offices. The left does not share the turret, for public service offices, municipal offices, also have to take over people's changing accessibility and service requirements, and perhaps they should also re-enter their opening hours, have more flexible service hours, so that most people can use the services they have to offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1883	The post is facing major challenges. Competition for postal customers is increasing and customers are increasingly demanding the provision of postal services, availability and lower prices. Restriction traffic in the despatch network has fallen significantly in recent years, and this trend is expected to continue and entail a significant loss of income. Technological developments, in particular with regard to the development of electronic commerce, pose major challenges for the Post Office, while opening up new opportunities. Those who are able to satisfy customers' needs as much as possible at the lowest possible price will be those who survive. The item therefore needs to strengthen its competitiveness through a more flexible shipping network where costs are adapted to revenue and where changing customer needs are taken into account. The traditional despatch network is becoming increasingly less relevant to the Post Office’s ability to provide its services, and the network is currently characterised by high costs and reduced revenues. It is therefore important to adapt the despatch network at all times to the needs of a stationary postal service and the need for a sound economy for the company. I see the conversion of the despatch network, for which the board and the corporate assembly in the Post Office are in favour, as an essential part of the modernisation of the Post Office. The offensive effort to improve accessibility by increasing the number of postal locations and extending the opening hours, together with the necessary cost-effectiveisation, is essential for the Post to survive in competition with other postal operators. I am therefore pleased that there is a political consensus that the Post Office can implement the planned conversion of the despatch network, and I would like to stress that it has been essential for me that it can do so without reducing the service requirements. I believe that the conversion will provide the Post with a network of expeditions that is flexible enough to meet both today's and tomorrow's challenges – and that in a situation where there is considerable uncertainty about the future of the Post. In addition to the circumstances I have already mentioned, sooner or later there will be a significant fall in the income of the Post as a result of a reduction in the amount of correspondence. Electronic communications will have to contribute to this at some point. At the same time, in a recent draft directive, the European Commission has recently put forward proposals for increased competition in the postal sector by reducing monopolies. It is still too early to say what the content of the final directive will be and how it will be implemented in Norway. We cannot ignore the fact that in the long term the scope of the monopoly area will also be reduced in Norway, with the resultant loss of income for the Post. I will come back to these issues in the big news about the Post, which will be presented until the autumn. However, the conversion of the despatch network is one of the Post Office’s measures to meet these challenges. The conversion of the despatch network will mean that the number of points of mail will increase by at least 200 in relation to today. In addition, the bet on increased contract operations will in many places involve extended opening hours. The increases will come both in urban areas and in districts. The upgrading of between 300 and 450 Post Offices to Postal Trade will increase the total range of services provided to customers in the areas where Postal Trade is established. The investment in tailor-made solutions for larger companies through the Posten Business could significantly improve the service offered to these customers. The service offer at Post in Store and public service offices shall be such that it meets at least the concession requirements. This will also ensure the provision of services in areas where ordinary post offices are replaced by Post in Stores and/or public service offices. In addition, the stationary despatch network will be complemented by the country postal service and an extended telephone service, the Posten Kontaktsenter. I therefore assume that the conversion will benefit the vast majority of customers in terms of better availability and an offer that is better suited to the individual's needs. It is clear from both the Post and Government that the service requirements of the Post concession will be met even after the conversion. All basic and basic banking services shall be available in all municipalities of the country, and in each municipality there shall be at least one post office — Post office — or post office — Post office in Store or Public Service Office — which provides all basic and basic banking services. Other service requirements included in the concession in terms of service provision, transmission times, postal distribution, etc. shall continue to be fulfilled. The conversion of the despatch network will provide the basis for investing in alternative modes of control that are more responsive to the needs and requirements of customers. Among other things, the Post will increasingly offer the collection and delivery of letter and package mail to the customers. Furthermore, it will be possible to invest more in the further development of existing services and the development of new ones. It is also important that the services imposed on society are provided in the most cost-effective way possible, and according to the Post, the conversion in the long term will also reduce the level of government purchases of unprofitable services. As indicated in the Communication, the Government is intensifying the work of setting up public service agencies. A State Secretary Committee has recently been set up to direct implementation. In particular, the Committee shall work towards facilitating State participation in public service offices. In cooperation with the departments, departments and establishments concerned, a single «package» shall be developed as regards the services to be added to such offices, the division of expenditure between the departments involved, and the establishment of procedures to ensure the quality of the proceedings. It has been considered that this sample should provide an overall package to the Government as quickly as possible and in any case during 2000. It is an objective to establish public service offices in as many municipalities as possible, and the Government will assess whether financial or other assistance to municipalities/governmental agencies may be relevant to the establishment of such offices. The post has offered municipalities/State the acquisition of premises and employees for use by public service agencies. In addition, such a service office will be able to provide basic postal and banking services. The Post will be carefully reviewed in the future and could be central to the establishment of service offices. In the case of the Post, it is important to clarify relatively quickly the extent to which the State and/or local authorities are interested in making use of the offer to acquire premises and employees. This should be possible to clarify by the end of 2000. Furthermore, it should be clarified as soon as possible where it is appropriate to provide postal services via a public service office, so that the Post may take this into account in its further plans. I would also like to stress that the alternative to offering postal services at public service offices is Post in Storek. If postal services are not available at a public service office in the municipality, the services will be offered at a store e.g. on site. It is therefore not correct, as the Right Party and the Advance Party claim in their minority comment, that the site will be without a dispatch location if the municipality does not take over the operation of the post through a public service office. In this connection, I would also like to remind you that the concession to the Post clearly states that there should be at least one post office or contract post office in each municipality, i.e. a dispatch point providing basic services and basic banking services. Moreover, in a number of municipalities, after the conversion, post office will continue to be run by Post itself. The conversion of the despatch network, as reported in the Storing Communication, will have significant personnel implications. To this extent, there has been a large proportion of public figures in the Post Office who have been able to offer alternative work in the Post Office. This won't be possible to the same extent as before. The post also has a strong need to reduce staff costs. It must therefore be expected that many employees will have to be laid off because of the conversion, and many other employees will be affected in some way. This poses major challenges for the Post, the employees of the company and the municipalities concerned. In particular in the districts, the consequences will be noticeable. It is therefore important that a conversion agreement has been concluded between the Post and the staff organisations and that the Post has decided to establish a conversion unit such as: will support the reduction of staff and contribute to the management and coordination of different instruments. Furthermore, it is important that the work on the conversion is done with great transparency to the employees, and that the employees are withdrawn and kept constantly informed about the work on the matter, and that the municipalities concerned are involved in the further process. This is also underlined by the majority of the Committee on Transport. It is difficult for so many employees to face up to a very rough time. A lot of people get heavy loads. I would love to avoid that. But these burdens are unfortunately inevitable when we want to ensure that the Post in the future will become a good business with safe jobs. The claim from the Right and Advance Party that there is a great persuasion in the Post is not correct. The announced changes to the despatch network provide the need for conversion. They go against the conversion unit, while referring to a successful conversion in Telenor. I dare remind you that one of the key elements in the conversion of Telenor was the precisely conversion unit Telenor New Opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1922	President! It's been a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1929	Ellen Gjerpe Hansen – to clarify a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1932	The right is aware that there should be at least one post office in each municipality, and I also clarified in my post that the danger we saw that the municipalities were forced to take over a post office was that of the municipalities that currently have several postal offices. Where there is only one, there is no problem with transferring to service offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1937	The old slogan that the post office is going to come forward, please look into my mind when we are today discussing the setting of St.meld. No 37 for 1999-2000, Re-conversion of Posten’s despatch network. The Advocate General gave a thorough examination of the Committee's observations. So I want to use my measured speaking time to express my thoughts on how public service offices that are in the start-up pit can provide the population of smaller communities with a better service supply than they do today. New forms of payment and other means of communication, such as cheaper telephones, mobile phones, e-mails, francs, etc., have reduced the Post Office's tasks. Naturally, this has led to post offices in many communities being given a limited opening time. When one came home from work, the door was closed. In such places, the contract post office at the Cooperative Society or at the petrol station can provide the local population with a much better supply, with longer opening hours, just to be available when people have finished their working day. But the visionary, as I see it, are the municipalities that, together with government agencies, take the challenge and provide the local population with public service offices. Local politicians know what people are looking for locally. Such offices can actually get the tasks they want. This could be done, for example, by: be such that the action manager or coordinator of the municipality has fixed office days. Or why not think that the health and social manager gives the population a lower threshold to go over? Often it is the meeting place that people feel they are missing, perhaps more so than that the provision of postal services is getting worse in rural areas and other ways of organising postal services. The government has already given more free resources to local government in its municipal economic proposal, and it is only in the start-up pit. If these benefits are used to provide better services to the local population, many tasks may come to the attention of users, for example: NSB ticketing service, cultural event ticketing hall, in order not to forget the use of such offices in the event of a pre-explanation. Yeah, it's almost just the imagination that's set limits. Now, in addition, there is another very important aspect for us in the Workers' Party, namely that the change they're adding will have to go through once again, as painless as possible. Many will be able to change settings in these offices, with more time content than in the old one, where the user groups failed. Times change quickly when it comes to such public offices. The noise level is much less now than when the Post was converted into a special law company. At the time, today's chairman of the post office board, Magnus Stageland, was a staggering representative and opposed to any reorganisation. Now he actively goes in for even more drastic manning shots than last time and stands in the way of a transformation of the mail services into a new era. Yes, nothing is as it was!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1952	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1955	After I have had some time to browse the documents, I would just like to state that my claim that the Right Party and the Advance Party claim that the municipalities will be without a post office if they do not accept the offer of a public service office is not correct. The comment by the representative Mr. Gjerpe Hansen leads to correctness.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1960	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3660]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1974	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3660]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1988	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e1997	In St. prp. No 66 for 1999-2000, the Government proposes to privatise and introduce Telenor. This is a follow-up to the 1999 State Budget Agreement between the Right, the Progress Party and the Central Parties, where the partial privatisation and the introduction of Telenor was one of the points of agreement. The government proposes that the stock exchange introduction should take place in the autumn of 2000 and not later than the end of 2001. A comprehensive committee, with the exception of SV, is involved in the sub-privatisation and listing of Telenor. It is gratifying that there is such broad political consensus in such an important matter. On the introduction of the stock exchange, the Government proposes to reduce its ownership interest by 15-25 pst. through a combination of capital increase, issue, and sale of government shares. It is proposed to extend Telenor’s share capital by up to 50 pst. of the value of the shares sold by the State at the time of the stock exchange introduction, but the share capital shall be increased by a maximum of DKK 25 billion. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Right, oppose the Government's proposal that the Storting decide on the relationship between the sale of the State's shares and the issue in order to reduce the State's ownership of Telenor. In the right, it is the task of the Board of Directors and the Government to assess the needs of the company for the issue, and that it is not the task of the Stortinge to decide on the volume of issues in Telenor. Telenor’s strategies and investment plans must determine the volume of issues. On the right, the State is opposed to participating in future Telenor issues. The Workers’ Party and the Centre Parties authorise the Government to further reduce the State’s ownership interest in Telenor AS through a combination of the issue and sale of the State’s shares, but assumes that the State’s holding does not fall below 51 p.m. The telecommunications industry is undergoing major structural changes in the globalisation of markets and technology convergence. It may therefore be necessary for Telenor to conclude cross-ownership mergers and strategic alliances. Maintaining a State holding of 51 p.m. may intercept Telenor from this type of cooperation. Major parts of Telenor’s business are located abroad and are exposed to significant risks. Maintaining a high level of state ownership means exposure of large government values to significant risks, which is not advisable. Therefore, the right considers that the State should sell itself out of Telenor in the long term. In the proposal, the government proposes to favour small savers in the allocation of shares, but opposes granting discounts despite the fact that the proposition states: ‘It is pointed out that monthly interest from small savers, especially early in the drawing period, could have a positive impact on institutional demand. Discounts or similar to small savers may be intended to have a positive impact on the total revenue of the State.’» In these days, the German State is reducing the State holding in Deutsche Telecom. In this context, Norwegian small savers are offered discounted shares in Deutsche Telecom. Following the recommendation of the Stortinget Government in this case, Norwegian small savers will be able to receive discounted shares in the German state telecommunications company, but not in the Norwegian state – and that is unreasonable. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left are going in on this background to give the small savers a discount to stimulate the purchase of shares in the company as much as possible. It is assumed that a discount scheme shall include a discount on purchase prices and bonus shares granted in relation to the term of commitment, so that the total discount is in line with discount schemes offered by other telecommunications companies in Europe. I hope that the Progress Party will give its subsidiary support to this proposal so that it can obtain a majority in this Chamber. All lots, with the exception of SV, support the proposal to give small savers preference at the stock exchange introduction and see it as positive that as many of the country’s inhabitants as possible are given the opportunity to become shareholders in Telenor. A majority of the Committee requires Telenor to have a return in line with other European telecommunications companies. All parties, except SV, believe that the Stortinget's claim that Telenor should have an equity of 42.5 pst. may be waived. It shall be the board of the company which, on the basis of commercial considerations, determines the company's equity. All lots, with the exception of SV, also agree that the administration of the State ownership of Telenor is to be transferred from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry after the introduction of the stock exchange. Today, the location of the state ownership of Telenor is contrary to EU directives, since the same department is not allowed to perform both a regulatory role and an ownership role. The fact that Telenor has been a full-time public limited liability company has made the dividend policy of the owners unpredictable. Dividends have occasionally been determined on the basis of the balancing needs of government budgets and have taken less account of the company's capital needs in order to improve value creation. By being listed on the stock exchange, the company will have a more predictable dividend policy, based on business considerations. I would like to stress that privatisation of Telenor does not entail changes in the company's concession and delivery obligations. Finally, I must admit that this is a great day for the Right. The privatisation of Telenor is something we've been fighting for too long, and today we're making the decision. In the Right's view, there are many advantages of letting private capital into Telenor. The state’s ownership of Norwegian business has increased in the last decade. This is worrying for a number of reasons. A diverse ownership structure, where ownership is divided into several hands, will contribute to the spread of power. For the Right, the objective of scattered ownership is important in order to prevent power concentration. Allowing Norwegian companies and individuals to acquire shares in Telenor will contribute to such a spread of power. This will help to strengthen Norwegian private ownership. By sub-privatising Telenor and listing the company, the company will be valued on a market-based basis at all times. The development of market value will be an important management signal, give feedback to the management of the company and help ensure that sufficient emphasis is placed on business operations. The State has a small industrial competence. Telenor needs active and long-term owners to provide the enterprise with knowledge, competence, market access and networks. Private owners may add this type of competence to the company and, with the listing of Telenor, the company will have access to the ordinary equity market in line with other listed companies. I would like to promote minority motion No. 1, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left. I would also like to promote minority motion No. Four, from the right. When we come to the vote, the Right will, if the Right proposal No. 4 against assumption should fall, support point 2 of the setting. I would ask the President to note during the voting that also the Right, after proposal No. 4 may be down, will support the adjustment point 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2044	Ellen Gjerpe Hansen has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2047	Since the Norwegian Telegraph was established in 1855, the Stortinget has dealt with important telecoms many times. Today is certainly no exception. Tonight, the Stortinget decides that Telenor should be quoted and that the State will gradually reduce its holding in the company towards a lower limit of 51 pst. Telegraphic history is being written in Norway. Before the telemonopoly was lifted, the Telecom, and after that Telenor, were responsible for bringing telecommunications services out to the whole country. In order to make the sum ton available to all, significant infrastructure had to be expanded. Following the closure of the monopoly, Telenor, in cooperation with other operators in the telecommunications market, has continued this development, particularly for mobile services. Soon UMTS will come, and also here it will be added to a high coverage. Norwegian telecommunications policy has been a success. Today, the Norwegian telecommunications market is characterised by low service prices, high coverage, active competition and dynamic and profitable operators. In our small country, we have managed to reconcile these seemingly conflicting considerations in a way that other countries are interested in studying. The telecommunications policy The Storting has been chiseled out, has resulted in a coordinated national telecommunications market in which Telenor and after each other operator has been able to operate economically. Telenor has thus played the leading role in the state's telecommunications policy. Norway is a leading telecommunications country, but this position must be defended almost every day. If we do this, it will also depend on whether Telenor is able to claim to be an actor in the world of international telecommunications. Few areas are as fast and as strongly changing as this market is. Different technologies and systems for information and communication, such as IT, telecommunications and the media are merging. This so-called convergence development is an important basis for new product and service developments and leads to the transition of markets and activities to other structures. For example, most European countries have partially privatised and listed their state telecommunications companies. In order to be as well rusted up as possible in competition, companies need capital. We could also have chosen to continue Telenor as a whole-time state company. Instead of Telenor bringing this necessary capital into the stock market, the state had to blow up an unknown number of billions, and then probably from the oil fund. This appears to be both a poor solution and a politically unrealistic one. Any major Norwegian commercial company operating in the global market must be adaptable, decision-making and able to raise capital quickly. Then it's a clear advantage that the ownership structure is roughly the same as the competitors. Therefore, Telenor’s listing is about the company’s ability to succeed as an international telecommunications company. Quotation is an instrument, not an end in itself. But Telenor will also serve to maintain a strategic ownership position, as required by the Committee. This will contribute to stability on the owner’s side and, among other things, prevent the company from being bought up and controlled by foreign interests. We must not lose the opportunity to further develop a strong telecoms environment in Norway, an environment where Telenor will still be a pillar. It's not the first time Telenor is going through big changes. When Stortinget changed the form of the company from management company to limited liability company, and when competition was introduced in the Norwegian telecommunications market, several speakers were both critical and pessimistic. Today we see that they were wrong. These changes were necessary and undoubtedly strengthened the company and made it more robust. A lot of the credit for this has been given to the employees of Telenor who have undergone tough conversion processes. It is not difficult to understand that Telenor's largest asset is its own employees. Social governance of Telenor is taking place today through general telecommunications and competition policy instruments. This will continue even if private people enter the owner page of Telenor. In addition to the listing, the issue of whether a discount should be imposed on the Telenor shares offered for sale is an important point. This is what the Workers' Party is against. There is reason to believe that those who want to buy the largest shareholdings in Telenor do not need to be stimulated by discount schemes. Furthermore, the share discount scheme may create expectations that such arrangements will be established in any future reductions in the country’s ownership interest in other companies. The latest developments in world technology stock exchanges have also shown us that this part of the stock market is exposed to major fluctuations. Nevertheless, when the majority now opens up stock discounts, there is reason to note that clear limitations are adopted in the scheme that will prevent the discount itself from being taken out as a short-term speculative gain. As I mentioned earlier, there are major changes in the telecoms market almost from day to day. Purchases and sales result in fewer and larger operators. Strategic decisions often need to be taken quickly. It is therefore difficult for the Storting to have concrete views on the distribution between issue and sale when the State’s ownership interest in Telenor is to be reduced. In addition, it is inappropriate for the Storting to adopt a ceiling on the amount of capital to be allocated to the company. These are business matters that must be kept under constant review by Telenor and the Ministry of Transport. Therefore, the Government in this area is extended its powers in relation to what it requests in the proposition. Everything suggests that Telenor today is Norway's most valuable commercial company. If we are to maintain the values we have built up in Telenor, we must ensure that the company is competitive beyond the Norwegian telecommunications market as well. Small growth or zero growth for Telenor will in reality imply stagnation and market decline. The risk of mobility of competences will increase, and the company will be at risk of being in a bad circle with less commercial and financial freedom of action. If this happens, we're all losers. The size has previously recognised Telenor that, through its dominant role, the company has contributed to the creation of equivalent offers of telecommunications services across the country. This is still a very central point in today's telecommunications policy, and I want to take this opportunity tonight to emphasise this. The first telex we've known the Storting was in 1854. At that time, money was to be allocated to installations for the construction of telegraph lines from the Swedish border via Christiania to Mandal – then certainly a big promise. Now Telenor is going to build infrastructure and provide services with the whole world as an extension area. We should wish the company good luck on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2077	The Progress Party refers to the 1999 State Budget Agreement where the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left agreed to sub-privatise and introduce Telenor, and we are pleased that this is now forthcoming. In the opinion of the Progress Party, Telenor must be authorised to issue new shares to private persons without State participation with a new subscription, as well as the listing of the company in accordance with the guidelines drawn up by the Progress Party in its comments. The company must also determine its own plan of progress based on its business assessments. In the opinion of the Progress Party, a national ownership will not in itself require a State holding of 51 p.m. and is no guarantee of reasonable and sound business governance of the company. The Progress Party would point out that what might be of value to the Norwegian community is to maintain its head office in Norway and to have an influence over the main development projects. Telenor is now a very important technological and industrial engine in the Norwegian community, which can provide the basis for further development of nutrition based in Norway. In order to ensure this, the Progress Party is in favour of establishing a so-called golden share at the hands of the State vetoing amendments to its statutes, as an alternative to 51 p.m. state ownership. After listing and sub-privatisation, the Progress Party considers that it must be the management and management of the company that normally governs the company's operations in relation to its shareholders and assesses the capital structure and dividend policy and the profitability requirements that should form the basis for long-term value creation and business development. The Progress Party will entrust the shareholders of the General Assembly with addressing such issues and believes that political bodies such as the Stortinget and the Government should not express any views in these areas. This position must be seen in the context of the fact that, some time after listing and sub-privatisation, the Progress Party will enter into the process of transferring the remaining State-owned shares to a reorganised and expanded people's security fund linked to the long-term pension obligations of the public interest and that this fund will then manage the rights entailed by those shares. This will ensure that the company is given professional and business governance and that a sound dividend policy will be pursued in contrast to that of political governance. The Progress Party wants Telenor’s board and management to be responsible for the organisation, organisation and implementation of a new issue of shares, as is usual for listed companies that will increase their share capital. This includes the determination of the nominal and the issue price, as well as discount schemes under which discounts are to be granted to employees and small savers. However, the Party will propose that this be done within a distribution of its holdings after implementation as follows: State holding 55 pst. bonus shares to the population 10 pst. sold shares 35 p.p. The distribution of shares to the real owners today, namely the Norwegian population, must take place on the basis of Norwegian citizenship and registration in the People's Register on the date of the new issue. The revenue from the sale of the 35 pst. is due as usual to the equity of a share issue of the company. It is also assumed that the State will not participate in the new issue. In terms of leverage and soundness, the Progress Party believes that the management and the board of directors of the company must determine this, as this determination will have an impact on the company's strategy. On the issue of listing parts of the group, too, the Progress Party considers that the company must be free to decide whether strategic partners are desirable in the context of or after listing and sub-privatisation. Furthermore, the Progress Party concludes that a share arrangement is being established for employees in the context of sub-privatisation and stock exchange listing, as well as a moderate and sensible option programme, in particular for key personnel, but considers that such issues are decided by the board and the management. In the case of sub-privatisation and stock exchange listings, the management and management of the company must be responsible for the work, and they should be free in the context of the organisation of share sales. The company should also determine all marketing and incentive issues for small savers. The Progress Party agrees that, by partial privatisation and listing, the State’s shares are transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Trade before they are transferred after a relatively short period to a reorganised and expanded People’s Security Fund. However, where the Ministry of Transport is still responsible for the formulation of State telecommunications policy and thus for the regularity of its role, the Ministry of Labour and Administration should continue to act as a complaint body in matters of competition in the telecommunications sector in order to avoid a mix of roles. The Board of Telenor should define its business strategy with proposals for the company’s organs after the stock exchange listing and partial privatisation have been carried out in line with other listed companies. The Progress Party does not want the State to deposit any more capital into the company before the stock exchange introduction, but refers to its proposal that the company itself should dispose of the entire revenue from the sale of 35 pst. of the current value of the company. The Progress Party takes the Government's orientation on market developments in the telecommunications sector for guidance, but does not see any significance of this on the main issues of the present case, namely the listing and partial privatisation of the company, and considers that it would have no particular administrative or economic impact on the State if partial privatisation and listing were left to the company itself. The company's new corporate structure should be determined by the company's organs, on a proposal from the board of directors, and I see no reason to express views on this. In addition, the worldwide development of the telecommunications sector, with ever-increasing new and better services at lower prices for business and private life, is experienced. In such a situation, it is important that several owners enter Telenor in order to spread the risks associated with the large investment and challenges facing Telenor. Therefore, it is gratifying that Telenor has now joined the Danish mobile phone company Sonofon as its principal owner. Further development in Norway depends, in particular, on the rational development and optimum use of the very extensive broadband access networks that are developed or under construction or upgrading in Norway. The possibility of using these is often overlooked in the debate on telecommunications. Today, user-oriented broadband networks cover approx. 800000 connections, i.e. 40 pst. of households in Norway in all parts of the country. These include both housing, well-being, pooling, etc., and an ever increasing number of individual households where the telecommunications safety requirements now imply that they are connected in a so-called star structure. The faster and more flexible development of the access network and its competitive supplies can be achieved by organising the access network activities of Telenor in a separate company, as many areas of Telenor activity are already organised. It will, on the one hand, contribute to more transparent conditions for operators, prevent ambiguities in pricing, organisation, etc., and enable Telenor’s core network activities to exploit the access networks of existing broadband users without building parallel networks where they exist. It would increase the ability of resources to build such networks in areas where they are lacking. This would contribute to the establishment of appropriate local interfaces between Telenor and users’ access networks in enterprises and housing, which increase the possibilities of competition from other core network providers as well. Cooperation with different groups of owners of such a company would be appropriate for the development and competition in this field. It is also shown that, according to the Post and Telecommunications Authority, only about 10 pst. of the copper network currently suitable for broadband. I would also like to refer to our comments on the matter, and thereby promote our proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2119	Christopher Stensaker has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2122	It's an interesting day today. We started with a smooth message, security for everyone and fair distribution of income and living conditions. We end the day with extensive opportunities for a company to spend billions in growth strategy. It actually gives substance to reflection. The Government's proposal to change the ownership of Telenor is a follow-up to a decision in the Stortinge in the budget procedure in autumn 1998. There, the Stortinget Government asked for proposals for the partial privatisation and listing of Telenor. Following the collapse of the Telenor-Telia merger, the Ministry has worked in parallel with the liquidation of the company and preparations for partial privatisation. The telecommunications sector is constantly changing. The development of telecommunications technology is an important part of the basis for the globalisation we are now experiencing. And today's case, the future organisation of ownership in Telenor, is precisely the result of globalisation, competition and ever-changing markets. When the state built the Telecom, it was to ensure telephone connections to all households and businesses around Norway. This was a ‘building country’ project of the kind that it was natural for the state to assume. For the Christian People's Party, the ownership of Telenor is not the most important thing. For us, the most important thing is that we can maintain the telecommunications policy objectives. For us, it is essential that we can ensure that the whole country has a good and equivalent offer of telecommunications services at reasonable prices, and at prices that are as equal as possible across the country. At the same time, Norway will continue to be a leading country in the ICT sector, where new technologies are being used early. It gives Norwegian industry a advantage. We have to take care of that and we have to exploit it. The Christian People's Party therefore believes it is still important to ensure national ownership, and supports the Government's proposal that the state maintains 51 pst. participation in the company. The government's proposal for partial privatisation and listing is, as I had in the past, a follow-up to an agreement entered into by the central parties with the Progress Party and the Right in the context of the 1999 budgetary procedure. It has therefore been known for a long time that there has been a majority in the United Kingdom to share Telenor. Therefore, the debate has not been about partial privatisation or not, but about the premise for partial privatisation. A very important question is whether the State should allow the new capital from private flows to Telenor through an issue, or whether to sell its own shares and thereby bring money into the treasury – and reduce the country’s risk exposure to the company. Furthermore, it is about the time of sale and how much one will bet on spreading sales. Government proposal in St.prp. No 66 on the power to assess whether Telenor’s share capital should be extended by up to 50 pst. of the value of all the shares sold, but within a maximum of NOK 25 billion, is a good proposal. Unfortunately, it has become so that it is only the central parties that stand firm on what the Government and the Council of State submitted to the Stortinget. The Workers' Party has decided to remove all restrictions on Telenor's investments and give companies and state councils full freedom. Telenor initially wanted a frame of 30 billion kroner. The Government's proposal in the proposal of DKK 25 billion was justified in reply to the Committee by: ‘A capital injection of 25 billion. according to the Ministry's knowledge, crowns will represent the largest contribution of equity ever made available to a Norwegian company in a single issue. The Ministry will note that the amount is a maximum amount.» From the proposition it appears that the department does not regard Telenor’s business strategy as ‘completed’. Furthermore, the proposition states: ‘In the light of a risk/portfolio assessment, the State will tend to reduce its ownership position in Telenor.’ Quite rightly, the state’s ownership interest will also be reduced by an issue. However, I cannot see that the proposal to which the majority today will subscribe implies a reduction in the risk of the state's investment. Today, the majority will propose that no limit be set on the extent to which the share capital can be expanded through an issue, either in the percentage of the shares sold or a total ceiling. The ownership interest of the State will be reduced, but if 100 pst. the revenue generated by the shares sold shall flow to Telenor in the form of increased share capital will not have changed the amount of the State's capital investment in the company. However, the Christian People's Party has not refused to use the issue in connection with a partial privatisation. We share some of the views expressed by the majority, namely that some business decisions have to be taken by the board and then by the general meeting. With regard to the assessment of the risk of the placement of state capital, the Council of State and the Government, not the Board of Directors, must be responsible. The Christian People's Party has assumed that the Government and the Minister of Transport made such an assessment in advance, before they made the proposition. We have assumed that just such assessments have been the basis for the proposal to limit the amount of revenue from the sale of shares that would flow to Telenor through an extension of the share capital. We can't see that this has happened so much since the proposition was presented, that it is the basis for drawing other conclusions. We record that the Workers' Party seizes the opportunity when the Right Party and the Advance Party open up to allow the government and the Government to gain more power, and that the central parties thus become alone to stand on what the Government put forward. It is interesting to see that the Workers' Party and the Right are in a way flat for the company, without laying the political leadership of the Stortingen for the use of such sums. The second issue is discounting small savers who want to buy shares, as an incentive to get more people to buy. Share ownership is much less widespread in Norway than in the other Nordic countries. In the privatisation of large state companies, one in our neighbouring countries has previously achieved quite a spread in ownership of small savers. It is partly due to the fact that there is more tradition of owning shares, but also to the use of discounts and other schemes that stimulate the purchase of shares and promote widespread ownership. The Christian People's Party believes it would be an advantage if we could achieve a widespread ownership in Telenor. A spread of ownership will give the company a greater degree of anchoring in Norway, and it is positive with a broad ownership base and small savers in the domestic market. It gives national anchoring and identity and probably customer loyalty. At the same time, it may promote shares as a form of savings and alternative placement of wealth. It will strengthen the access to capital for Norwegian business if small savers place some of their funds in shares rather than in a bank account. At the same time, it is important in marketing for share sales that there is a clear indication that there is a risk associated with share purchases. Exchange quotation costs, including, inter alia: commissions to facilitators and marketing costs shall be distributed between the State and Telenor. The government sees the costs in connection with the revenue from the sale of shares and will not propose that expenditure be recovered from other expenditure reductions. Together with the Right and the Other Center Parties, the Christian People's Party is asking the Government to design a system that guarantees discounts for small savers. It may take the form of discounts on the purchase of shares up to a certain number, or on the presentation of long-term ownership. It is important that the scheme: target small savers. There is no point in discounting large investors. So it is today that the Workers' Party is no longer responsible for what the Workers' Party government has presented. But the government's proposal is not entirely without support in Stortinget. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, I will present proposal No. 2, which is included in the setting. Representative Ellen Gjerpe Hansen has promoted our joint proposal, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Otherwise, Christian People's Party supports the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2177	Mr. Kofoed-Larsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2180	The telecommunications market is developing rapidly. Telenor has a doctor in the front when it comes to following in evolution. I think most people want Telenor to be able to keep up with developments in this interesting area. One development is that within this market there is an extensive degree of buying-in and merging. If Telenor is to be in a position to follow developments further, the company must have the economy to engage in research and development, but also to assess expansion. As many people have mentioned before me in the debate, it was in the budget agreement in the autumn of 1999 that the contracting parties were certain that Telenor would be part-privatised and introduced. St. pp. No 66, about Telenor, is precisely the implementation of this. In a market with rapid development and as great fluctuations as it has been in the past, the Central Party believes that it is right that the Stortinge give a signal and guidance for the partial privatisation and the stock exchange listing that is to happen. The size should also, in our opinion, signal the size of the extension of Telenor's share capital. Through the proposition, there's also this government inviting the Storting to. The party currently supports in principle the content of the proposition as it came from the Government. The central party still considers it important to ensure a nationally anchored ownership of Telenor and therefore supports the Government's proposal that the State maintain 51 pst. the owner of the company. We are also pleased that the government is proposing a first sale of its property by 15-25 pst. the stock exchange introduction. Such a relatively gentle sale by stock market introduction we think makes sense. I'm glad there's a lot of people in the committee for this. A majority in the Committee have said that stock exchange introduction and sub-privatisation can take place in the autumn of 2000. In other words, the government can assess what is the right time according to the market situation. In the proposition, the Workers’ Party Government has requested authority to decide whether Telenor’s share capital should be increased by up to 50 pst. of the value of all the axles sold at the stock exchange introduction, but within a frame of not more than NOK 25 billion. It is reasonable, in the opinion of the Centre Party, both to establish certain frameworks and to give authority to the Government within the limits requested by them. The strange thing is that after the proposition was made at the end of May, the Labour Party has changed its position at this point. Now, all of a sudden, the party doesn't want to limit the extension of Telenor's share capital. This gives reason to ask what has happened, especially in the light of a question asked by the department. The question shows that Telenor wants a 30-billion-dollar framework in expanded share capital, but that the department has staggered for 25 billion. In the answer, the ministry determines that 25 billion is a maximum amount, and that a capital injection of 25 billion is the largest input of equity that is ever made available to a Norwegian company in a simple issue. The central part is completely consistent with the government of the assessments that have been made. But about. one week later the Department will answer another question from the Committee. It is then said that it is important for Telenor that within reasonable time the company can secure the injection of capital in line with its business plans. But we read in the proposition, the government says that one can't see that Telenor's proposal for a business strategy is finished. Here, there is a big gap in the Government's opinions from week to week. What's happened? What do the Labour Party and the Government mean? Is it possible to explain that the last week's Telenor buy-in view has changed the Government's position? The centre party is concerned that Telenor axes can be spread to the most possible extent. The proposition also states that ‘interest from small savers’ ‘will have a positive impact on institutional demand’. Experiences from other sources Sweden shows that there has been a great deal of interest from small savers in purchasing axles in Telia. In my view, there should not be anything in the way that could be the same situation in Norway, when Telenor axes are to be sold. The centre party therefore supports the organisation to make it attractive for small savers to buy axles. We will therefore support a discount scheme that includes discounts on the purchase price and bonus axes allocated in relation to the time of the commitment. Other countries have introduced discount schemes that could be a model for a Norwegian scheme. A Norwegian discount scheme can be developed on the basis of signals given in the adjustment and models from other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2205	How am I going to spend five poor minutes on a case that concerns the privatisation of our engine in technology development, an engine that a broad majority of the Stortinget wanted to be the whole time of the state a couple-three years ago, a majority that has turned to the five-eyed without a broad social debate, without any visible debate in the parties, and where are the spin-offs to be confirmed tonight during minimal speaking time and without replication? Since we're in June, I can start by reminding the same majority that in June last year they went five on when they uncritically took the wave of the Telenor-Telia merger. They didn't put a question mark. This is not a fillet case. But the center parties and the Workers' Party have earned themselves to be the fillerist, not just because of the conclusion, but perhaps even more so for the way they came to it. I would argue that turning politics without any process is irresponsible. Let me go back to the election campaign in 1997 and Telecom Revy dated August 21, where all the parties presented their telecommunications policy. What did Magnus Stangeland of the Center Party say? Well, he was "lived" for the privatisation of Telenor. “We look at Telenor in the same way as we do at the Swedish Aviation Agency, the Swedish Railway Agency and the Vegvesen,” he said. He was terrified. I wouldn't have gone that far. And how long did the fear of the Center Party last? In fact, for a year and three months, for the 1998 budget agreement. Fear was darkened. Because of a political debate, a process? No, no, no. They sold their position to get a budgetary settlement with the Right Party and the Advance Party. That's all it was worth. Greater was not the fear of life. What did Christian People's Party May-Helen Molvær Grimstad say in the same newspaper? She said, ‘The party is in the process of Telenor being a 100 per cent state owned company, but Grimstad still opens the door to joy: – If it should be for all future purposes, I have no fascist response to that.’ All the future – what perspective does the Christian People's Party have on «all the future»? Six months later, new signals are coming in today’s business, and in the budgetary agreement mentioned earlier, there is a long way to go. One year and three months was the case with the fasitism. Then you can wonder how long eternal life lasts. Maybe it's not that much to go for it anymore. This is not policy development, it is policy on cheap sales. What about the Workers' Party that is currently struggling with the privatisation of Statoil? Privatisation of Telenor they have quietly lashed through, while the party is asleep. For what did their faction leader, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, say in March 1998 in a sweeping criticism of the centre? Let me read, because we can use that as part of the reason for SV's position in this context. He said that Telenor ‘has been, is and will continue to be an important tool for promoting this development. Telenor is the main tool of the authorities to achieve the main objective of telecommunications policy to ensure that all households and businesses across the country have a high quality basic telecommunications service of equivalent and lowest prices.» And then he continued: ‘It is precisely for this reason that the Workers’ Party’s view is that Telenor should continue as a wholly-owned State limited liability company. This is what provides the clearer state governance of developments in this increasingly important area of society. Even a small private holding would significantly impair the country’s ability to manage ownership. When the Telecom was transformed into the limited company Telenor, it was also a clear premise that this should be an entire state company. The working party shall stand by it.’» He said that two years ago. Then he continued to hoarse with the center, which then had begun to turn: ‘One thing is the point of view. But what do these parties expect from credibility? Once again we see that in the election campaign they told the voters one thing, while the principles they then claimed have now disappeared without a trace. What is left of political honour?’ That's a good question. It can be returned to the Workers' Party: What is left of political honour? What political process has led to the reverse operation? And have they asked the voters? No, no, no. We knew a lot about market developments two years ago, we knew which wolves were tipping at the markets Telenor is operating on. Then it's amazing that it was possible to hare this over the center too soon after sea to do the same reverse operation – as amazing as that center sells its positions to get a budget settlement in areas that they say are important, yes, where they're alive for changes. We also realize that Telenor is in a tough competitive situation, and if we are to take care of ownership, we cannot give any pro-mille to privatisation, as Schjøtt-Pedersen said. I see that time is up, so I have to draw myself to a three-minute term in this very limited speaking time in this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2250	I registered that the representative Myrvoll did not bring the Left in his post. The background to the issues we have to deal with today in the Storting is the Budget Agreement between the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left for 1999, where these parties were some about sharing privatising and introducing Telenor. For the Left, it is important to secure a nationally anchored ownership of Telenor. At the same time, it is necessary to facilitate the further development of the company. It's the users, the Norwegian people, who have paid for the construction of the infrastructure and thus helped build up the values that Telenor represents. Our Norwegian telecommunications market is characterized by low prices for services, high coverage and forward-looking services. This is one of the things. created by effective competition. Telenor has our backbone in the telecommunications market here in the country. In order to develop the company in both the Norwegian and international markets, the State must exercise its ownership in a professional manner. It is important for the Left that the State is a good owner. The government has also put emphasis on this proposition. This will require strong competence on the board of directors of the company. The left expects strong competences to prevail in the future election of government representatives on the board. In the future, the government and general meeting will have to decide on the risk exposure to which the State will be exposed. The left has noted that Telenor bases its business strategy on further growth and value creation. This will increase the amount of the international part of the enterprise. The board has proposed a frame of up to NOK 30 billion. In the proposition, the government points out that Telenor’s business strategy has not been completed and therefore asks for authority to assess whether Telenor’s share capital should be expanded by up to 50 pst. of the value of all the axles that are sold, but not more than 25 billion kroner. The left has not received any information indicating that Telenor's business strategy has changed from the proposition was made on 19 May to today. The left-hand side notes that the Workers' Party wants to empower the Government beyond what they have requested. The left is aware that we have a government council that has good knowledge of Telenor, but we can't go in for further powers to the Government so long as this one thinks Telenor's business plans and business strategies are not finally produced. Telenor's values are built up over many years with the state as direct contributors and common Nordics as customers. When the company now asks for confidence in using this capital for risky investments, it is important, in its view, that this is after carefully considered business plans and strategies, and not after short-term fluctuations in the stock market. Investing their savings in share purchases has gradually become a normal way of saving. The left wants the most common shareholders to buy axles in Telenor, as it has been done at the hall of other telecommunications companies in Europe. In the left, we think that stock discounts don't necessarily benefit small savers, it could be the big buyers that get this gain. When we now, together with a multiple number, go in for a discount on the purchase of a share, there are provisions that can be purchased with a discount for the number of axles with a binding time and possible leads. Telenor is a company we are proud of. It's maybe with a little bit of "anguish and trembling" we sell a little bit. In the left we believe that Telenor should develop further with the new structure. We want to close the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2273	In my opinion, the background for dealing with the matter we are dealing with today is that the telecommunications markets around the world are in a rapid process of change. The main driving forces are technology development, globalisation, dissemination and use of information and communication technologies and industrial restructuring. Telenor bases its business strategy on further growth and value creation. This will increase the international dimension of the business. The aim of the growth strategy is to maximise the values of the owner and to facilitate the maintenance of the business as an independent company based in Norway. The development of international telecommunications markets has led to fewer operators. Almost all national telecommunications companies in Europe are now partially privatised and listed. In order for Telenor to be able to follow its growth strategy, Telenor must also follow this development. In view of this, the Government sees that it is no longer appropriate for the State to be the sole owner of Telenor. I believe that the recent investment in Telenor only underlines this. However, the government considers it important to ensure nationally anchored ownership of Telenor and proposes that the State maintain 51 pst. participation in the company. For the Government, it is important to facilitate further industrial development based in Norway. The internationalisation of activities reinforces this need, in the government's view. Introducing the stock exchange is aimed at reducing the government’s ownership interest by 15-25 pst. The Government proposes that this be done through a combination of issue and sale, where the amount of the issue is not more than 50 pst. and DKK 25 billion. In recent times, we have seen developments in the telecommunications markets with major fluctuations. The Government therefore considers that the need for flexibility in this type of decision is significant. I would like to stress that only since the submission of the proposition has there been significant fluctuations both in terms of companies that are natural to compare with, and also in terms of others in the IT industry. Therefore, I also see that it may be appropriate for the Government to be empowered to determine the amount of the issue and the distribution between the issue and the sale of securities, as proposed by the majority. It is further stated that the Government may subsequently increase its share capital by selling to persons other than the State, or that the State may make direct sales, thereby reducing its ownership interest to 51 p.m. The management of that mandate will be based on assessments of the company’s strategies and market assessments in the context of sales. Internationally, most state telecommunications companies are part-privatised. There has been a steady interest among small savers in these share sales. On average, small couples have purchased about half of the shares in the various transactions. It is difficult to say how the use of various types of incentives would affect the country’s net income from the sale of shares. The sale of shares in Telenor must take account of the fact that the majority of the share subscriptions will come from institutional investors in Norway and abroad. The valuations of the institutional investors will be decisive for the price that the country/Telenor will achieve on the shares. The Ministry of Transport has been advised by the financial organisers to assess the use of incentives for small savers. High interest from small savers, especially early in the subscription period, could have a positive impact on institutional demand. Therefore, discounting to small savers will not necessarily have a negative impact on the sales income of the country. Safe assessments in this field will never be possible, but the market surveys carried out will provide a better basis for assessing this. For example, no discounts were granted in connection with the sale of Telia shares. However, the sale was a major success in the Swedish small-scale savings market. The government’s assessment has been that although incentives may have a positive impact on the country’s net income, different discount schemes would give rise to disproportionate distributional effects. The government has therefore not proposed to use incentives for small savers. However, the Government believes that preference should be given. Of course, if a majority in the Grand Duchy subscribes to the proposal for the use of rebates/incentive schemes, the Government will follow this up. The state, as its owner, has invested large sums of money in Telenor in the form of injected capital and retained profits. The requirement for return on capital for the State that the investor would, in the same way as for private investors, result from what one can expect from return on alternative capital positions with similar risks. The government emphasises that state ownership tasks are carried out professionally and in accordance with general commercial practice. The return requirement should be at the same level as for comparable European telecommunications companies. The capital structure and dividend policy shall promote value creation. It would be most appropriate to consider these issues more closely in the context of the preparation of the stock exchange introduction. The partial privatisation of Telenor will result in the termination of the special provisions of the Share Act for public limited-liability companies. Although, after a partial privatisation, the State maintains a majority share in the company, the legal framework conditions for ownership management will change slightly so that there is a greater distance between the State and the company. This will affect the way state ownership is exercised. I show you, among other things: to securities legislation and the exchange rules. Furthermore, account should be taken of the fact that the competitiveness and the value of the company's capital will be reduced if the State formulates and practices ownership in a way that differs from that common to other limited liability companies. The Board of Telenor AS wishes to achieve the current solidarity objective of 42 p.m. changes with a view to immediate implementation of the growth strategy set by the company. This implies the need for increased external borrowing. At the discretion of the Board of Directors, the decrease in the accounting equity percentage of the company will be sound. I note with satisfaction that a majority supports the Government's proposal to waive a specific soundness target. However, as the owner, the government will closely follow the board’s assessment of the risks incurred by the company in reducing its equity share. The purchase by the majority of the Danish mobile company Sonofon will bring the equity stake below 42 pst. The purchase agreement was concluded yesterday. I am pleased that Telenor is confirming its position in the Nordic region. Of course, it would have been preferable for the Storting to deal with the issue of the equity share before the agreement was concluded, but I would like to stress that the purchase will only be effected after the down payment. In particular, in order to contribute to the confidence of the market in the proper and sound organisation of the ownership and regulatory functions of the telecommunications sector, the management of the State ownership of Telenor will be transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Trade as soon as possible after the introduction of the stock exchange. It is suggested that the group be reorganised to bring the core business together in one company, while different support functions such as: installation, software and catalogue activities are distinguished in their own sub-group. In the case of software, this has already been completed, while the equivalent is in the process of being carried out for the installation establishment Bravida. Telenor considers whether it is appropriate to establish a new holding company as the top management body of the group. The Government believes that this can facilitate more appropriate and adaptable organisational structure for Telenor. I am pleased that there is a majority in favour of further work on the proposal and that the Government is empowered to make any necessary own-initiative arrangements. Any restructuring will take place before the stock exchange introduction. As part of the process of opening up the telecommunications sector to full competition from 1 January 1998, the Ministry of Labour and Administrative Affairs was made the body of appeal in matters of competition in the telecommunications sector. When the ownership of Telenor is transferred to another department, the reasons for this special scheme are removed. The responsibility for these matters will be returned to the Ministry of Transport from the time when the change in the departmental association of ownership is implemented. A reduction in the state ownership of Telenor does not in itself imply a need to change the state’s view and attitude on capital return and dividends issues, but the State will no longer be able to decide solely on the dividend policy or on the requirement to pay dividends. Nor may the general meeting set a higher dividend than the Board of Directors proposes or accepts. The sale of the State’s shares in Telenor will involve the relocating of state assets from shares to other financial assets. Several conditions will affect both the amount of income and the costs of selling shares. The amount of the reduction in the country’s ownership interest is not determined within the range of 15-25 p.p. or the proportion of the sale to be made as an issue. Furthermore, the value of Telenor shares is very uncertain. The government sees the expenditure in connection with the income generated by the sale of shares and will not propose that expenditure be recovered by reducing expenditure in other budget areas. Because sales proceeds and therefore also the large proceeds-dependent costs are very uncertain sizes, no allocation proposals are presented at this stage. This will come back to the Government in its own proposal when expenditure and revenue are further clarified, and at the latest in connection with the re-balancing of the budget for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2326	In the debate, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have made a large number that the Workers' Party is willing to give its own government greater powers than the Government initially requested in defining the frameworks of the sale. It's going to be a bit of a strange debate, and it's possible that things are going too fast for the centre parties in the telecommunications market. Our population has full confidence that our government will address this challenge in a market and business-friendly way. At the same time, the willingness to invest in Telenor being given the necessary capital to become a national and international solid and forward-looking enterprise. We are convinced that the Government is also handling it in a good way. As evidenced by the proposition, there is a risk associated with the evolution of telecommunications markets. Recent developments in the international market have been most marked by major fluctuations. Therefore, the need for flexibility has been increasing in recent times in establishing the framework for sales, including: as regards the relationship between issue and distribution sale. The sale must be of a certain size to ensure sufficient liquidity in the secondary market to effectively price the share. It is important for Telenor that the company can be secured within a reasonable period of time by the injection of capital in line with the company’s business plans. Therefore, I am convinced that it is a wise decision that the majority, the Labour Party and the Right, give the Government extensive powers in these matters. It's been a long day. But I have to comment, however, when the Committee's Credentials, the representative Myrvoll, have excavated his old quotations from workers' party politicians in order to try to prove a right triangle in our policy. Myrvoll is quite right that the Labour Party's policy today is different from that of a few years ago. This applies in several areas. Because unlike the Myrvoll party, we have the ability and the will to change instruments as society changes, even though the goals are the same. I am one of the few in the committee who also participated in the treatment when Telenor was converted into an entire state limited liability company. Also at the time the representative Myrvoll was very committed to such a conversion. At the time, too, he referred to old quotations from the Labour Party politicians. In fact, SV in these issues is at all times in favour of the policy pursued by the Labour Party 5-10 years ago. Today, praises Myrvoll the whole state-owned company that he himself was so strongly opposed a few years ago. And he's doing it right, because it's turned out to be a success. We've got a much better and cheaper telecommunications offer for most people today than when Telenor was a management company. But social development is continuing. We read daily about mergers, expansions, acquisitions in the telecommunications industry, and that Telenor must have capital and freedom of action to meet these developments. SV refuses to realize this, because the party almost lives by being disappointed in the Workers' Party and worried about our so-called right triangle. It is possible that these views are grounded in some, but they are not particularly forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2343	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2346	This will be the starting point for the Committee! The representative Red Road said it was going too fast for someone. I think it's going too fast for anyone in this case, and that's perhaps what makes it go beyond honesty. Because it wasn't that old quotes I had. One of the things I reacted to was that the Workers' Party's representative and the fractional leader at the time, Schjøtt-Pedersen, resented that others had turned around and had tricked the voters. Then you do the same sail afterwards! It's not quite good! I expect that at least you would have liked to have seen it unsaid now, two years after it was said. I admit, and I have actually said it from Stortinget's pulpit a couple of times before, that I think I was wrong – was it in 1994, I don't remember – when you reworked the Televerket to a limited company, to a great deal of resistance from me and someone else in the room who is today in favour of privatisation. That's the confession I've made. It is possible that at that time it was a little too slow for me, that I did not come to my recognition in time. But I think you've done it very quickly. There was one in the hall who came and asked me if I should say something about SV's views on what we should do. Now I have one and a half minutes left, and I'm going to say something else, but I just want to say that I've never been against Telenor operating on the international market, as some others in the hall have been very sceptical about. The Workers' Party also recognized that a few years ago, and then you wanted a whole-time state company. It is clear that then I imagine that we must have a state capitalisation of Telenor if it is to function as an entire state company. This means, among other things: that we might rather use the oil fund to invest in the company we believe in for Telenor, rather than a number of other foreign companies etc. But I want to record a few other things that are not affected. I'm a little surprised that there's neither the Workers' Party nor the Centre that's worried about the separation of their own companies like Bravida, who's going to operate and go on the stock exchange, where there's no 51 pst limit. Nearly 1/3 of Telenor's employees work in Bravida. That company can then be sold down stately as far as you want. It's being put on the stock exchange. There is no guarantee that the company cannot be slaughtered. Anything can happen to that. You're just talking about the parent company. The same can be true of catalogue activities and others. You haven't mentioned that. You are also not concerned with the unculture to which you otherwise respond, when it is now a matter of allocating shares to the management of the companies. So it's said that maybe they're going to buy them. I have no faith that they must pay the market price for the shares they receive. This is unculture. This shall not happen in the parent company when it goes on the stock exchange. But it happens in part of the subsidiaries when they are separated and on the stock exchange. There are a number of things like that that I could imagine that you would have been a little bit critical of, if not otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2365	The President will point out that we have a little old-fashioned form of prosecution here in the house, so such direct speech to political opponents is strictly forbidden. The president asks Inge Myrvoll to remember it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2368	I'm not going to try to extend this debate, but I just want to stress that in Trøndelag, the Kärkal concept is an honour. That means you've made an honest effort to get to grips with the use, to get to grips with it. And this skull has the ability to look into new horizons and at the same time accept that "new generations" see others and greater possibilities. I want to say it this way: if the representative Myrvoll and I survive this nomination process and upcoming roll-call elections, we will probably have new opportunities for Telenor debates, where I am convinced that the representative Myrvoll will praise the solution chosen by the majority for Telenor tonight. Because when reality changes, I have – I admit – the ability to change my position. I am convinced that this reality will also be able to obtain the representative of Myrvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2375	It is a long evening, but it must be allowed for the Right when you have heard this discussion between SV and the Workers' Party about who has changed their position over time, to remember that the Right has had exactly the same position that we have today, for almost ten years. So some people have seen in many ways the evolution that has gone by. Some have seen that there is a new economy going on. Some have seen that the world’s fastest growing industry in telecommunications and IT technology is perhaps the fastest growing industry in the world. Some have seen that this is no longer possible for politicians to rule. Some have seen that this competition in the world will require us to find other structures, that politicians stop interfering directly with the way telecommunications services are to be provided in Norway. There's a market out there. There's a competition out there that's bone-hard. The sooner we politicians realize that this market works if we also let private ones go, the better this will be. Never forget that we all agree that there should be a basic offer in this country for all people. But we're going to govern it through the concessions and not through ownership. I'm convinced that the next time we meet, the Right is also right. Then it's not 51 pst. the ownership of the State. Then the state will sell itself out completely. It's the only sensible development on this. There is no reason for the state to sit with many, many billions of high-risk in an industry that is so risky. No, let the state go out of it, leave it to private. They are far better at dealing with this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2386	The President has the impression that we have now entered a period of clairvoyance. Inge Myrvoll would like a further – brief – comment in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2391	While the representative of Nilsen looked forward, I still see a little backwards. To put it this way: I do not want to let the image stick that SV has been the ones that have held back. In a number of contexts, we have agreed on telecommunications policy, including: when the last exclusive rights were abolished, and the centre party and others accused SV of having become market liberal and all that. So we've had different rounds of telecommunications policy. But that doesn't necessarily mean that the Labour Party in the current round is right. At least I want to say the following things: When you say "the reality," you can sort of hide everything behind it. The important thing is that the world hasn't created a sea. You're not just going to float, you're going to be involved in influencing the future that's to be created. I also assume that it is still the stand of social democracy, and not just the willlessly floating around in market liberalism without control.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2401	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2411	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2418	In the course of the debate, 17 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Gunhild Eyering on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2-4, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 5-7, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 8-17, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President will begin with the proposals Nos. 8-16, from the Socialist Left Party. Mr Bendiks H. Arnesen has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2438	As regards SV's proposal No. 17, this is in line with the Labour Party's line, and we have heard today that three departments are already working on this matter. I therefore recommend that the representatives of the Workers' Party vote in favour of this proposal, as Mr Øyang signaled earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2443	The President has understood that everyone in the Chamber would have voted in favour of proposal No. 17. So when we come to that proposal, the president would have thought maybe we'd do it a little bit shorter so we didn't have to explain the explanations of vote from the rest of the parties, and it seems to be going well. Then we start by voting over the proposals No. 8-16 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2001 is asked to present a plan for the reduction of the abstinence of health care services, kindergartens and the school leisure system.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the reintroduction of the Youth Guarantee for young people aged between 20 and 24 in order to give them the right to a place of action or qualification/training in order to get to work.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for implementing a reform that gives the right to action and/or training after 4 weeks of unemployment’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the regulations of the Law on Social Security to cover the costs of physical organisation of the disabled person at the place of work.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks for the government to ensure that non-returnable social benefits are not considered as part of the income base of the applicant for social assistance’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the housing allowance in the House Bank to cover the financing of at least 3000 more non-profit rental dwellings per year. year of the current grant.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: The Government is asking for proposals to merge the responsibilities of the social offices for the payment of social assistance, the social security and labour market budgets into a single government agency under the National Social Security Agency.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a minimum standard of living benefit based on the minimum pension for persons in need of social assistance.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to extend the training aid timeframe to lone providers for training for up to 5 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2498	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for legislative proposals to ensure the disabled coverage of transport costs for work journeys, when he is unable to use public transport, when such an offer is not available or disability in itself makes self-transport impossible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2510	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5-7, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to provide pensioners, from the age of 67, with the right to their full accrued pension without any curtailment in relation to other income.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the co-location of work offices, social security offices and social work offices.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that in each municipality an insertion committee is set up for drug users composed of the head of social affairs, the head of care and care and the municipal doctor. The local doctor, who is medically responsible, shall have the right to veto the sample.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2536	Proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and the Socialist Left Party, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to quickly file a case for the State of Living in Finland’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present changes in the tax regime that reduce the differences in taxes on labour and capital.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks in spring 2001 to provide a key message on a more comprehensive treatment provision for drug users.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2562	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider reintroducing the Youth Guarantee for young people aged 20 to 24 in order to give them the right to take action or to qualify/educate in order to get to work.’ The President assumes that SV will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2585	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2596	Can you add to my voice for? I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2605	Then there are 76 representatives who voted in favour of the vote and 20 representatives who voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2608	I could not vote either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2615	Were there many more? Then the president thinks it's best to take the vote one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2618	The Advance Party will vote in favour of you.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2625	It was probably a useful piece of information, as opposed to what the president had assumed. So we're going to vote on the I.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2638	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2645	Then there shall be 93 representatives who voted in favour and 12 representatives who voted against. Consequently, the suspension has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2670	The President assumes that the Right wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e2701	The right here has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3016	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the inclusion of so-called CO2-free gas power plants in the development plans for the Granefeld and the planning of a start of production at the earliest in 2004.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3037	Proposal No. 1, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is authorised to reduce the proportion of SAD in Grains and White Bear.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3086	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size defers the treatment of St.prp. No 78 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3121	During the debate, Mr Vaksdal has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. The vote will be taken as an alternative between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3126	Is it possible for the President to split the proposals, for SV wants to vote for proposal No. Two?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3133	It's possible. The President will then vote separately on the proposals, and then over the deadline. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government, as a general assembly in Statoil, is asked to replace the Governing Board in favour of a new one with the necessary skills, and to give instructions to the Governing Board regarding the management wage policy and the waiting pay system to be followed by the company.’ [[parachute system]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3147	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce guidelines on the employment conditions of directors of whole state companies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3176	During the debate, Hilde Frafjord Johnson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the initiative of an independent study on how Norwegian gas power plants will reduce European CO2 emissions over the lifetime of a gas power plant, for a minimum of 20 years.’ The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:55 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3224	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ingrid Fisaa, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a pilot project on prevention and research-based work in predatory areas, based, inter alia, on the experience from similar problem areas in other countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3239	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Gunnar Halvorsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 3 – 5, by Hans J. Røsjorde on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposals No. 6 and 7, by Hans J. Røsjorde, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 8 and 9, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party, is converted into a transmission proposal, and the introduction is amended accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government suspend the signature of a contract with Bazan for the construction of frigates until the Government is sure that all the conditions relating to the contract have been clarified and cleared.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Hans J. Røsjorde – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3264	I think it might be useful with a explanation of vote. With regard to proposals Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, the address is ready for the Advance Party. But in the case of the Roman numerals, I would just like to draw attention to the following: the party of progress will vote against I and II, for III and IV, against V and VI and for VII. I must ask the President to raise the vote so that it is possible to vote as it is now announced. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote against proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3271	The president's got to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3274	In order to avoid repetition exercises, I would only ask the Right when it comes to the Committee's recommendation to vote in favour of I, II, III and IV, against V and VI, for VII and against the proposal from Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3279	Are we ready for voting? Then we start with proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘III Ministry of Defence is authorised to initiate projects as described in chapter 1. 5 in St. Prp. [[1999 - 2000]] No 58 with the exception of Building 64 Akershus Fortress and Mauken – Blue Tind – joining shooting range. These projects will be assessed in the context of the Long-term Communication.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3289	It is an alternative proposal for III, as it says in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3296	Anyway, the President has the attitude that it's easier to take it separately first.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3299	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3312	Proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Progress Party shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Starting of series production of new missile torpedo boats is delayed. It is not disposed of at 25 million. crowns over cap. 1760 Item 45 to support engineering capacity by UMOE Mandal.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Ministry of Defence shall carry out the evaluation and selection of new fighter aircraft as previously decided by the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3333	Proposals Nos. 3, 4 and 5, from the Advance Party and the Right, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is requested to return to Stortinget in the context of the Long-term Communication with an assessment of the early acquisition of new transport aircraft based on an additional allocation and without repurchase requirements.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «Loans to the Norwegian Museum of Photography Foundation – Preus Fotomuseum of 6 million. crowns are not provided.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The project Heat Central Setermoen is carried out within an approved 210 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3359	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «Project Building 64 at Akershus Fortress may be carried out within a cost framework of 62 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Project Huseby — Defence Command Huseby — Conversion/fire protection measures can be implemented within a new cost framework of 80 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3379	So we're going to go to the roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3395	Here the Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3445	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3472	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal No. 1 and 2 on behalf of the Progress Party and these are included on page 4 of the Settings. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2000 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormålKroner1107 Member States' animal health control Grants for veterinary preparedness are granted at 35 000 000’» [[new]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose arrangements to involve district veterinarians in the clinical watch where this is necessary in order to maintain a satisfactory preparedness.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3604	The Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3622	President, I will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3638	During the debate, Mr Stensaker put forward a proposal on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on page 7 of the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the Post Norway BA into a limited liability company.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3693	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Ellen Gjerpe Hansen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party and SV Proposal No. 2, from Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and Left Proposal No. 3 by Mr Stensaker, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Ellen Gjerpe Hansen on behalf of the Right The suggestions are included on page 10 of the setting. There is a vote first on the minority proposals, with the exception of proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Center Party, and the Left Party. This will come back to the President when voting on his motion for a resolution. Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The measure authorises the Ministry of Transport to take the necessary decisions to establish a State ‘golden’ share in Telenor AS and to allow Telenor AS to issue shares and listed companies on the basis of the fact that the State’s current holding constitutes 55 pst. of the shares, the population is given 10 pst. of the shares and sales income of the remaining 35 pst. is due to the company’s equity, after a discount has been granted in the share subscription for employees and small savers, and has been granted access to a moderate and reasonable option programme for employees, in particular key personnel.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3726	Proposal No. 4, from the right, says: ‘2. The Government shall be authorised to sell its axes in Telenor to the State.’;» Here the Progress Party has announced its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3742	Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, and the Left Party, says: ‘6. The Government is authorised to assess whether Telenor’s share capital is to be increased by up to 50 pst at the time of the stock exchange introduction. of the value of all the axles sold, but not more than 25 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3773	The right has announced that they support paragraph 2 subsidiaryly after their own proposal has now been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3782	Then there is still to be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Center Party, and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘5. The government is authorised to add to the use of preferential allocation to small savers in connection with the stock market introduction. It is an assumption that it is made up to discount schemes/incentives for small savers in connection with this.» The President assumes that the Progress Party will now support this proposal. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e3800	During the debate, Mr Røsjorde put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2000 shall be amended as follows: Chapter:CronsExpenditure1731Hearings01Operating expenditure, increased by 9 605 000from NOK 4 688 264 000 to NOK 4 697 869 0001731Marine defence01Operating expenditure, increased by 3 336 000 from NOK 2 850 390 000 to NOK 2 853 726 0001733Air defence01Operating expenditure, increased by 3 066 000 from NOK 3 714 458 000 to NOK 3 717 524 0001734Home protection01Operating expenditure, increased by 1 876 000 from NOK 710 306 000 to NOK 712 182 0001790Coastal expenditure, increased by 734 000 from NOK 531 914 000 to NOK 532 648 000» There will be no alternative between the vote and the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e4130	The president pointed out that there was an error in the chapter numbering both in the draft proposal for the vote and in the minority proposal. Where it says chapter 1731 Maritime Defense, it's supposed to be hijacked. 1732.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-14-2.ana.ud371e4146	There is no record.
