ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e52	The representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Mimmi Beevi, Sylvia Brustad, Laila Kaland, Kristin Krohn Devold and Anne Helen Rui, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Buskerud County: Frank Willy Larsen For the county of Hordaland: Thorbjørn Merkesdal
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e86	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office in addition to the former President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e91	I allow myself to propose Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e96	Mr. Øyvind Korsberg has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e104	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e107	I am delighted to make two private suggestions. It is a proposal by Mr Carl I. Hagen and signed on the strengthening of the fight against and the prevention of crime committed by asylum seekers, among others. restrictions on the freedom of movement of certain asylum seekers when staying in the reception of asylum and proposals from the representatives of the elderly Torbjørn Andersen, Jørn L. Stang and signed to make it punishable to escape from prison or not return to a prison institution after leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e113	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e116	I would like to put forward proposals on equal treatment in the allocation of financial support to political groupings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e121	Representative Carl I. Hagen wants to make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e124	I have the pleasure of promoting proposals to investigate and establish a policy for Norwegian settlements in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e129	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we go to case no. 1, the President will, for the sake of order, draw attention to the fact that the platform that has been snowing up in the last few hours in front of the Stortinge is exclusively concerned with ski events.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e143	We are currently considering the decision of the EEA Committee to include the EU Data Protection Directive as part of the EEA Agreement. The Directive basically strengthens the privacy of individuals in relation to the processing of personal data. Later today, Odelstinget should treat Ot.prp. No 92 for 1998-99, which suggests a new personal data law based on the model of the directive. So we don't have to go into it any further now. In my view, it is a great advantage that we now have corresponding international rules in this field. This is not least necessary in the light of the international nature of the information society and IT technology. While guaranteeing the rights of individuals, it is important that we have a free exchange of personal data within the EEA territory. It is also reassuring that in the case of transfers of personal data to third countries, principles are used to ensure that, as a general rule, data are only transferred to countries with a high level of protection for the processing of personal data. In addition, sufficient safeguards are provided for the transfer of information to third countries so that we can assess whether we will comply with the Commission’s decisions on an independent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e152	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e166	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e175	The present position addresses proposals from the Government for changes to the labour immigration legislation and briefly addresses the following: for professionals it is not possible to recruit in Norway or in the other EEA territory to extend the period of short-term seasonal work a special new derogation for childcare workers for special families; The first two proposals concern adjustments and the extension of existing legislation as regards the specialist provision and the provision on seasonal labour force respectively. As a general starting point on the part of the Workers' Party, I would like to stress that changes to the Labour Immigration Code, i.e.: greater employment opportunities outside the EEA must have a long-term perspective and be part of a comprehensive labour market policy – not based on a snapshot of the current employment situation. This also applies to immigrants who are allowed to stay in Norway for a longer period. The Labour Party agrees that the authorities must facilitate the coverage of future labour needs. First of all, this must be done through an active labour market policy for full employment in this country. This means the necessary adaptations of training to the needs of the labour market. This means that the authorities shall be primarily responsible for deploying the necessary resources to qualify for the labour market those who are wholly or partly unemployed in Norway. The Labour Party believes that to the extent that domestic labour is available to the jobs, including non-residents living in Norway, this labour force is at the forefront. The high unemployment rate among non-Western immigrants is a major challenge for us. It is absolutely necessary to change both the attitudes of employers towards recruiting foreigners in job vacancies and to increase the qualification of immigrants to the needs of the labour market, including by providing better Norwegian training. I would also like to point out that asylum seekers were given extended opportunities for temporary work permits from the summer of 1999 and believe that this must be followed up in order to prevent inaction and unemployment. In relation to meeting the needs of the labour market, I also find reason to recall that we have had a common Nordic labour market for many decades and that since 1995, the legal barriers to labour migration have been largely removed in the EEA as a whole. Here, too, there is a significant potential for recruiting people to the domestic labour market. So to the Committee's position on the individual points: after the migration stop in 1975, we have had regulated and controlled immigration where exceptions have been made to meet the need for labour in special areas, such as: the provision concerning specialists and seasonal workers. The Committee, with some nuances, agrees that these derogations for workers outside the EEA territory are being extended and extended somewhat. Certain recruitments in this field may help to address short-term shortages of some occupational groups. We record that the Ministry points to the need for skilled workers in the health and care sector and the IT industry which cannot be covered by the legislation in force, requiring vocational training ‘at a higher level’ as a basis for the work permit. The Committee is of the opinion that it is appropriate to adorn legislation to facilitate the provision of skilled labour in the relevant areas. However, the Workers' Party and a majority of the Committee support the need for higher-level vocational training if there are particular considerations. The Committee assumes that where there is domestic labour force for the jobs, including non-residents living in Norway, this labour force is at the forefront and that it is also specified in the legislation. In addition, Norway is obliged under the EEA Agreement to apply for labour from the EEA territory in advance of an outside search. The working party and a majority of the Committee agree that, under the special provision, work permits shall provide the basis for permanent residence if the employment is maintained until he/she has been granted a residence permit after three years. An overall committee calls on the Ministry to facilitate a dialogue with the social partners in the practice of extending the specialisation to professional workers. Under today's provisions, work permits may be granted for the period from 15 May to 31 October for a period of up to three months in seasonal activities. The Committee agrees that the legislation should not prevent the unmet need for seasonal labour even outside the summer semester from being covered by foreign labour. This may be the case here in different forms of seasonal fishing, in the tourism industry and in agriculture and horticulture. However, we assume that this possibility will apply to typically seasonal activities and not to activities that are ongoing to the extent of the whole year. For seasonal workers, too, the Committee would stress that, to the extent that domestic labour is available to the jobs, including non-residents living in Norway, this workforce takes precedence. The same applies to labour from the EEA territory. The Committee agrees that non-residents who have had a seasonal work permit must have remained outside the country for nine months in order to obtain a new authorisation. We have noticed that the inter-ministerial working group set up by the Government pointed out that increased access to the use of seasonal workers could increase the possibilities of continuing low-attractive pay and working conditions. This is a matter for the authorities to be aware of and an overall committee to ask the Ministry to facilitate dialogue with the social partners in the practice of the provision of seasonal labour. The Ministry proposed in St.meld. No 16 a new regulatory provision sent at the hearing opening to grant work permits to non-residents to work as childcare workers in bilingual families. The Labour Party and the majority of the Committee consider that housework is not a job qualifying for a work permit. It is also referred to here that the municipal committee was of the same opinion in 1997. We believe that childcare workers must be defined within the category of work at home and that any exceptions must be provided for by law or regulation. However, the working party cannot see that, in two individual cases in the autumn of 1998, the Ministry has demonstrated a need for childcare, in general or limited terms, to qualify as a work permit on its own basis. The Ministry's proposal violates the general rule on the possibility of permanent residence when persons are granted a work permit over a longer period, nor does it seem particularly convincing for other reasons. Rather, it could be a loophole for imports of labour that can be easily exploited. On this basis, the Labour Party and the majority of the Committee oppose new exemptions for childcare workers. I have chosen not to go into the positions of the other parties in this setting, for example. that the Progress Party appears to cultivate more use and caste mentality in relation to immigrants working in Norway over a long period of time, that the Right has a ambiguous position by supporting those who are allowed to stay in Norway on the basis of vocational training to be able to stay for a longer period, but at the same time in a proposal opens up the possibility of an increase in labour immigration related to temporary residence, or that the Centre Parties benefit from a very narrow child passport regulation, which is largely designed to legitimise a critical handling of previous individual cases, and which I am also not quite sure is well thought out in terms of practice. When I have not chosen this approach, it is because, as the rapporteur, I want to draw the conclusions of the Committee. The Committee agrees with a sensible decoration in two areas concerning the recruitment of skilled workers and seasonal workers, and a majority in the Committee opposes a new derogation for child-careers. With that, I'm presenting the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e229	Today, a significant number of foreigners come to Norway as asylum seekers. Some of these get refugee status, others get humanitarian residence. Many foreigners also come to Norway as family members of these refugees. In other words, there is a significant migration into Norway. At the same time, we have problems succeeding in integration policy. Just the fact that 86 pst. Immigrant backgrounds of the members of criminal youth gangs show that we haven't done well enough. The residents of Norway — many of whom are Norwegian citizens — are of course to be considered equivalent to us Norwegians. When a person has received Norwegian citizenship, he is of course also considered to be a Norwegian. Until we have managed to integrate these Nordics with a foreign background in a harmonious way in our society, time does not have to liberalize immigration rules. On the contrary, they should be tightened. That is why the Progress Party is proposing to convert today's labour immigration system into a guest work scheme, as is the case in Switzerland, for example. This means that a person authorised to work in Norway because there is no available labour force with his or her special competence in the EEA area should not be given the opportunity to take his or her family with him or her to Norway. He should apply for a new work permit every year and should not be able to stay in Norway for more than three years. There is no use and cast-mentality. This is a scheme that will benefit both parties. It is a great advantage for a person who lives in a country like Pakistan or in a country in Eastern Europe and who has very low incomes, to come to Norway and get a monthly salary almost equivalent to the annual salary in the home country, and then could save money and send to his family in the home country. At the same time, it will solve a problem for Norwegian business as well. The proposal of the Progress Party represents a dramatic tightening of current legislation and prevents the significant increase in permanent immigration into Norway as a result of a permanent residence and family reunification system – I refer to the proposal for a renewed application for annual and total residence in Norway in only three years without a family reunification occasion. Is it reasonable to reduce the requirements for applying for a job in Norway so that it is also possible for those without higher education? It would be helpful for Norwegian businesses to lack qualified persons for important jobs without at the same time increasing permanent immigration to Norway, as the proposals of the other parties will lead, and of course it will also be helpful for those foreigners who are given the opportunity to work in Norway for a number of years. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e242	Sir. Simonsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e245	Not so rarely are we presented to the gloomy prospects where it is told that in the future there will not be a sufficient number of working people in this country to provide enough income for our pensions. But there are enough people who want to work; they just don't live in Norway. That's why it's important that we set things right so that those who can, as we need and who are qualified for it, complete the workforce here in the country. It should be unnecessary to say that, but for the sake of certainty, I mention that the immigration regulation provisions we adopt are not intended to be at the expense of an active labour market policy for full employment here in the country. We're going to decide something that's going to be added to it and not instead. Two of the three Government proposals are supported by a majority in the vote. This concerns the modification of the conditions of the so-called specialist provision and the extension of the period of seasonal labour. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to facilitate the conditions so that necessary work is done, and that it is done by those who can work. In my home country, the existing law has resulted in complications and despair over public interpretative bureaucracy and has hindered the development of jobs. The company Fimo is a supplier and produces a special type of tiles that originate in Brazil. However, because the skilled laymen of this type of tile are not skilled at a higher level, although it is obvious that they have special qualifications, these skilled workers are not allowed to work. With the change in the law that we are adopting today, the problem will be solved. The new wording says it's «a condition of work authorisation that the applicant (a) is a skilled person or has special qualifications». However, I would also like to add, in order to make it quite clear, that ‘trained’ does not necessarily mean that he has to provide a proof of our diploma. For applicants from countries that have such authorisation schemes, this is OK. However, it should normally be sufficient for any work certificates or practical examinations to demonstrate the expertise and qualification. On the other hand, we make sure to qualify for further work where required. It happens through the addition to the law where it says: ‘If there are particular considerations, higher-level vocational training is required.’ Seasonal labour force has so far been allowed within the period 15 May to 31. October. The background for this may have been a somewhat narrow perspective on the particular need for labour in agriculture and horticulture. If it's ever been like this, at least it's not like this anymore. Not least within the fishing industry are the major seasonal variables. The same applies to the tourism industry. It is therefore quite right, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that the period of seasonal labour is extended to cover the whole year. Like the other parties in the Committee, we are in the position of the inter-ministerial working group on possible negative consequences for the development of pay and working conditions. This relationship must be given attention and responsibility must be assumed by the Ministry in cooperation with the social partners. Unfortunately, there is no majority in favour of the proposal to grant a work permit to non-residents to work as childcare workers in bilingual families where the caretaker comes from one of their parents’ countries of origin. The Christian People's Party believes it is time we in practice set up Norwegian youth who chooses lifelong courses from other cultures and language areas when they themselves want babysitting from the culture in which they are not resident, but from which one of the parents has the background. We want to make it easier for bilingual families to maintain their multicultural relationship by granting a limited work permit for childcare workers. The assumptions we make are that the family should be bilingual of origin, and that one of these languages must be Norwegian. It shall also be a condition that there is no relationship between the applicant and the employer family. In addition, the applicant shall be adequately guaranteed by written agreement for housing, working conditions, etc. This is how we will prevent anyone from becoming a victim of improper exploitation. In the Christian People's Party, we are saddened that the Storting will not open up to the limited extent the Government has proposed in St. report. No 16th@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e272	Later today, we are going to deal with the IT Fornebu case. And one thing is certain: we're going to have to import quite a lot of labour to make IT-Fornebu a power center on the IT side. We need labour, and the situation today is that the main competitive factor of businesses is in the head and in the spirit of people, and that's what we have to compete for. We must not then make a policy that is to keep out of Norway as much as possible — the worst competitive conditions. We have to have a policy that allows our businesses to have as good conditions as the businesses out there. There are three things that are wrong with Norwegian refugee policy. Firstly, people who actually come here to work – economic refugees – are put in an asylum queue because it's the only way to get in. They're being passive. Secondly, instead of working for their wages, being self-held, proud and self-sufficient, they are clientised from day one. They're taught to use social arrangements instead of being able to go out and get a job, be self-sufficient from day one, without having to call themselves refugees. The third thing that is wrong is that it is forbidden to work legally, for example. with washing. The police are looking for Polish laundrymen to send them out of the country because they are working illegally. But if the same girls are prostituted, the Supreme Court has held that it is not allowed to send them out of the country, because it is not illegal. It's a heavenly double morality that prostitution is okay, but washing around where people need it is forbidden and leads to being sent out of the country. When we adopted the EEA Agreement – it was implemented in 1995 – I well remembered the arguments of the EU election campaign, namely that we would now be flooded with dark-skinned people from southern Europe who wanted to take our jobs. Almost no one came. The flow of refugees we can talk about goes from Norway to Spain, because the pensioners see that they get a lot more for their money down there and actually get better health care. The other stream we have is the Northmen who go to Denmark and Sweden to act, because it's much cheaper and better there. Today's proposal is a step in the right direction, but it doesn't go far enough. The right thing is, we're going to be able to recruit people from abroad both to the care sector and to new industries. Then we don't have to have such a rigid code to pick up the workforce that we can't meet our needs. What the Right stands for means that we can at the same time tighten up the practice of residence on a humanitarian basis. It is the hatch that has been expanded to help those who are really economic immigrants – except that they are then being passive. What we do, among other things, can do so, is set the same requirement for family reunification as one has in Denmark, where family reunification means that one can support one’s family. So you can if you're allowed to work, become self-sufficient and can get a self-catering home from day one. What the Progress Party proposes is that the work permit should only be granted for one year at a time. I wonder which professionals from the computer industry in India will take the chance of moving to Norway, if they stay for one year at a time. Not only do we compete for this labour force, but most other Western countries do. So they're going to travel from the world, home, family and everything, establish themselves in a high-risk country, and then be sent home after one year. These are not competitive working conditions for those we want to come here. I am pleased that the Committee has said that seasonal work will also apply in the tourism sector. Fortunately, the ski centre in Hemsedal is open only half the year, and Geiranger is open for the second half of the year – in summer; in winter they are closed inside the snow race – so that both of these towns can probably meet their needs for labour in this way. For the Nordics, we have a ban on temporary employment, so it is good that at least it opens up so that the foreigners can take these temporary jobs. When Stortinget last dealt with this – Innst. S. No. 238 of 1996-97 of the Municipal Committee – said the central parties could not go into Ellen Chr. Christiansen's proposal because it was too sloppy. One thing is certain, and that's that the third proposal from the Government, which goes on the children's epic paragraph, is far narrower than that which was Ellen Chr. Christiansen's proposal, which was too sloppy for the government parties as late back as 1997. The proposal that the centre parties had at the time with SV is quite similar to the Right's proposal. I want to raise the Right proposal, and I expect that at least SV stands for what was their view at the time, and that we can get at least SV's votes to our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e298	Kristin Krohn Devold has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e301	The starting point for today's debate and the balances that need to be taken lie in a field of tension that is linked in many ways to the fact that we have unemployment on the one hand, while on the other hand we have a shortage of labour. The latter makes it necessary to allow for more immigration — it is necessary to allow more labour from abroad — in order to ensure a good society. The size has two issues that relate to these questions, that is the setting that exists today and ends today, and that is a Document No. Eight proposals from Karin Andersen and me. These two issues have slightly different approaches, but Document No. In many ways, the 8 proposal represents a certain extension compared to the one currently being discussed. I will admit that I do not understand the Right proposal without further delay. I am only allowed to accept that the discussion process without access to replies prevents me from having the opportunity to ask for a closer extension of it, but I assume that the proposal – and it was also heard this way in the post by the representative Krohn Devold – represents a positive contribution towards obtaining further decoration of the rules that apply. I then get to challenge the Right to make their contributions in relation to the treatment of that Document No. The 8-proposal from Karin Andersen and me, which is being discussed. Today's setting represents a breakthrough for the Government, and it implies that the Workers' Party has changed its position on the issue of labour migration. During the processing of the nutrition notification in Stortinget, in Innst. S. No 128 for 1998-99, the Labour Party and the Progress Party agreed to provide clear negative guidance on the issue of extended labour migration. The new parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, has claimed that the Workers' Party was open to this, but was waiting for the Government. It is difficult to see the relationship between the leaders in the suspension of the nutrition notification and the opinions of the representative Stoltenberg. Even more difficult is to understand Stoltenberg's view of the Workers' Party's position when you include opinions from other representatives, Kjell Opseth and the Labour Party's leader, Thorbjørn Jagland. In an interview with Today’s Business on 31 August 1999, Kjell Opseth’s representative went a long way in stressing that the Workers’ Party would not have any of this – i.e. an embellishment of labour immigration. The rapporteur, Mr Vidar Bjørnstad, stressed in his speech that labour immigration and the decoration of these rules had to be assessed from a long-term perspective. We can agree on that, even though you might be able to discuss what might be long-term. In any case, I find it difficult to see that the differing views of the Workers' Party on this issue over a relatively short period of time represent the good long-termity, not least when we take into account that the Labour Party leader, Torbjørn Jagland, has just used the question of relations with foreigners in Norway as a argument that the Advance Party should be the main resistance of the Workers' Party. To make it clear, the Left is pleased with the change in attitude of the Workers' Party. We can only record that there has probably been some disagreement within the Workers' Party on these questions. As far as the proposals are concerned, they are clearly in the right direction. I would like to stress that there may be reason to consider going further in relation to the Document No. The 8-proposal that I mentioned earlier. In particular, there may be grounds for considering whether there may be specific circumstances related to the situation in Finnmark. Finally, I just want to express some wonder that caring for children, and ensuring that children have a good basis for caring in a two-cultural field of stress, are perceived as a question of housework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e316	After hearing Mr. Hove's comments, it might be tempting to talk about something quite different than what I intend to do. However, I would just like to stress that the treatment we have had in the Workers' Party with regard to the Government's arrangements has been very much agreed upon in the party. Let's be clear. With regard to the specialist provision and any new provision on babysitting, I have no additions to what Vidar Bjørnstad has already said. In relation to seasonal labour, I would like to add something. The labour we are talking about in practice in this context comes essentially from Eastern Europe. To a large extent, these are workers coming from countries that want to enter the EU, i.e. workers who, in a few years' time, will enter the free labour market of which Norway through the EEA is also part. So one can say this is a taste of an opportunity that will come later for these people, and then as ordinary job seekers. Opening up a three-month period regardless of the season is an important extension; it is an opportunity to show solidarity towards people who today live in societies where the salary level and standard of living of the large majority are far from what we are used to in Norway. For workers from e.g. The Baltic countries and Poland can make a huge effort to get home with hard-pressed money after a working season in Norway. That being said, there is reason to point to the warning of the inter-ministerial working group set up by the Government to look at labour migration. It pointed to the danger of a continuation of less attractive pay and employment. This is why it is very important for an overall committee to point out that the social partners are strongly committed to the conditions of seasonal labour. There is no secret that, especially in agriculture/farming, there have been working conditions that, under Norwegian conditions, are almost to be called exploitation. I know from my own municipality that Poland has worked as a welder on the shipyard with payment according to Norwegian tariff conditions. The same applies — still an example from my municipality of origin — to asylum seekers who have worked in the fishing industry with normal Norwegian payments. That's how it should initially be. Apart from the traditionally dominant area of agriculture and horticulture in the case of seasonal workers, there is a special mention in the communication on tourism and winter fishing. This priority, I think, is good, and both for tourism and fisheries/fisheries, it is important that the possibility now applies throughout the year, and not only in the period from 15 May to 31 October. An overall committee has proposed replacing the word ‘winter fishing’ by ‘seasonal fishing’. If you talk about winter fishing, you like to think first of all about Finnmark and North Norway. The need for seasonal workers in the fishing industry can sometimes be quite great in other parts of the country, both in Trondelag, in the West and in the South West. The mackerel sun and the mating season are examples in this way. For me, it is very important today to stress this to the Council of State, so that conditions are arranged so that seasonal workers can, as soon as possible, have the opportunity to work, wherever possible in Fisheries-Norway. With the assumptions laid down in this communication and the treatment of it in Stortinget, I feel that there is a good balance in relation to the unemployed in Norway. I also think it is important to stress that those who come to Norway, either as specialists or seasonal workers, contribute positively to Norwegian society, and that we also let them do so, get the feeling that that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e339	It is with great pleasure that I have found that a majority in the Committee is in favour of the so-called specialist provision being softened in line with the Government's proposal, and that a total increase is in place to extend the seasonal labour provision to the whole year. In a situation where the Norwegian labour market is very tight, both these provisions will help to increase market flexibility and serve as one contribution to reducing the pressure in the Norwegian economy. I also believe that the proposals that now have a majority will reduce the pressure on the institution of asylum. Several can now apply to Norway and legitimately get a stay if there is no labour supply in the EEA territory. We currently have an unmet need for labour, which at least a piece on the road is expected to be remedied by the fact that more skilled foreigners than today can get job vacancies here in the country after the change of regulations. Now it is sufficient to be trained to obtain a job permit under this provision, whereas today it is a condition that vocational training must be of a higher level. I stress that domestic workers have the first priority for job vacancies. This is apparent from the provision itself, and it is of course the Government's wish and aim that both the Nordics and foreigners who already live in the country are given the opportunity to take work for which they are qualified before it becomes time to collect labour from outside the country. And in this context, there is reason to stress the unemployment rate among immigrants, but also that it has benefited from measures to reduce the unemployment rate. The Committee points out ‘that the authorities shall be primarily responsible for deploying the necessary resources to qualify for the labour market those who are wholly or partly unemployed in Norway’. In addition, the Committee states that, while recruiting foreign labour, «the necessary adaptations of training and qualification measures to the labour market must be given priority». I agree fully with this, and I have also underlined it at a previous point in this article. If we were to find ourselves in a situation where there is no longer a need to pick up skilled labour from abroad – and, for that matter, no higher-level labour force – yes, no one will be allowed to work under the specialty provision. By giving priority to domestic labour, account is taken of the fact that conditions on the labour market may change, fully safeguarded. I have noticed that the Progress Party is in order that neither the new group of workers nor workers covered by the current wording of the provision can get the family to Norway. In addition, the total working period shall not exceed three years. In this context, I point out that the labour force in question is in particular requested in the Norwegian labour market and of invaluable importance for the country's value creation and welfare. I note that it is only the Progress Party that will not allow such workers to live here with the family, and that will send them home after three years, regardless of whether they still contribute their labour and competence here in the country and want to continue with it. Otherwise, I take note of the fact that the proposal to send to the hearing a regulatory provision that would allow access to work permits for up to two years as a babysitter under specified conditions has not been given a majority. I fully agree with what the Committee has said when it stresses the need for a good dialogue with the social partners. It is precisely this dialogue that has also helped to influence my position on this matter and given me – let me say so – boldness to promote it, because I have also noticed the climate change that has occurred in the debate on these points, and I just want to note that it is a pleasure that that climate change has happened. I'm also glad that along the way the committee has shown the imagination to define seasonal labour in a more joyful way than I could have. I have nothing against this ugliness. In the case of, inter alia: The representative Rasmussen's description that seasonal work in fishing must apply throughout the country and not just in winter and not just in the north, is an understanding that I naturally have deep sympathy for and noticed, and that I will follow up. I have also noticed other practical changes, which I take note of as a sort of beginning spring wind in Stortinget that it is now okay to bring workers into the country. Yes, it's so positive that I almost get dizzy of being able to comment on this on the Storting Chair. I expect that in such a careful way to comment on the efforts of a committee, I have kept myself within all reasonable limits. As far as other aspects of this debate are concerned, I shall not go into them. I'm not going to bring up any polemics, I don't think it's right to do that. I think it is important first of all to enjoy the decorations that take place. I would like to stress once again at the end of the article that I am convinced that these decorations relieve some of the pressure on the institution of asylum, because there is no doubt that the strict regulation we have had of labour immigration has helped to put unnecessary pressure on the institution of asylum. On those points, I share many of the views expressed by the representative Krohn Devold.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e368	SV will support the position of the majority in this case. We believe that the signals given in dealing with this matter are positive: the society of the future is multicultural, there is a need for more labour in Norway, and we need a policy to facilitate this in a positive way. A strict and closed law signals that immigration is threatening and negative, a more open law signals that Norway wants a diverse society and through its policy will contribute to it. There is therefore a need for more workers in Norway, and SV wants to open up an opportunity to realise it. At the same time, it is important for SV to stress that opening up to work immigration is not a good excuse for weakening the skills of those who do not have work today. In particular, there is a need to focus on people with disabilities, but also on part of our immigrant population who need action. There's no doubt that we need all this labour, both the one who's coming, and the one who's here. We also support the majority on the position of the child passport paragraph, which we do not consider to make any changes in. So I need to comment on the proposal from the Right, because initially SV took a very positive view of this proposal. However, when we read the justification, namely that we want to tighten up relative to humanitarian stay, it becomes difficult for SV to support this proposal. Instead, I should like to refer to document No. The 8-proposal by myself and Harald Hove of the Left, which states that we want the Government to investigate a system of a fixed immigration quota every year, i.e. a Green Card Lottery scheme, as they have in the United States, which can provide openings that we believe Norwegian labour and Norwegian society have benefited greatly. We are therefore going to vote against the proposal that the Right is promoting today, sail if we could also imagine a broader review of this policy with a view to opening up more. But the strong link that Right here has made it a desire to limit the possibility of a humanitarian stay, makes SV unable to support such a proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e379	The Labour Party agrees that a certain decoration of the labour immigration rules can be allowed in two areas — seasonal workers and trade union workers. I myself have been visiting Båtsfjord and have seen how dependent the fishing industry there is at times on importing labour, among other things. from Russia. It is good for the fishing industry in Finnmark, but it is also good for those Russians who want to come here to work and thus make money that comes well when they come back to Russia. Here they have an orderly employment and a wage, and the conditions are the same as in the Norwegian working life. But I still want to add that before such a situation is up to date in Båtsfjord and elsewhere, unemployment there should be very low. For the Labour Party, there are certain prerequisites for us to be involved in softening the rules on immigration, first of all, that we continue to maintain a labour market policy with a large and strong labour market across the country addressing the challenges we face in getting the most work done. Country-wide registers of unemployed people updated at any time will be absolutely necessary, so that we are sure that the same workforce as we are looking for does not already exist. A reinforced line of work and full employment should remain our highest target, so that we get the most in work before we have to resort to labour from outside the EEA. In these days, the Storting is working with the Equalization message, a message that shows that the biggest differences in this country are between those who have work and those who do not. This is why it is so important to make provision for as many people as possible to get to work. To believe that the majority of those who fall out of work seem to be doing well is not right. They all, most people prefer to be at work and do themselves. Opening up more labour mobility must not mean giving up school and giving work training to the long-term unemployed, such as today. lack of a letter of formal qualifications, which is increasingly required to take account of job vacancies. Equally, opening up work must not mean giving up the 80 000 part-time employees who want extended jobs, as it turns out that the majority of them also want more hours of work and expanded jobs. Many of these already have diplomas and qualifications. In particular, there are many part-time workers in the care and care sector, but watch lists and complex rotational arrangements prevent the expansion of posts. We have to tackle this more strongly in some way. The opening-up of labour immigration must not be to walk the simplest roads and thus close the doors of those who make things weaker on the labour market and who need some extra help to get in. In addition, we have many new countrymen who are here in the country, and more will come in the years to come, either as refugees or as asylum seekers. Last year almost 13 000 asylum seekers and refugees arrived, including the refugees we received from Kosovo. Very many of these should also have a job to live off after they have come here to the country. The aim of the Workers' Party is that as many as possible must come to work and get their own income from which they can live as quickly as possible. But today we know that there are many people who are not coming to work. Unemployment among immigrants is three times as high as in the general population. That's not good, and we can't settle for that. Admitting their education from abroad has been a difficult solution for immigrants to get through, and it takes too long. If we now aim to give work permits to even more people, we cannot have these plugs in the system – because I expect that we need a system of recognition of skills for these too. It is therefore very important that those who are already here in the country should not be pushed aside if they are not quite ready for the job vacancies. We need to be more willing to give them the school or training they need before extended labour migration becomes relevant. In any case, it is most profitable to provide work for immigrants who are already in Norway, whether they came as asylum seekers, for family reunification or for humanitarian access.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e402	You can choose to have a narrow or a broad perspective on the debate we have today. The narrow perspective is to discuss the situation as it is right now, the relationship between increased immigration and unemployment in Norway today. The broad perspective is to look at the criteria for the future survival of the Norwegian welfare society as a good welfare society. What you know today is that what is missing is the resource, which is going to be the missing resource in the future to solve the welfare problems, but also the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, is labour. This applies to skilled labour, but also to ordinary labour without special vocational training or higher education. We can solve the problem of lack of vocational training in three different ways. We can raise the real retirement age in Norway. There have been discussions, including: in the welfare message, and the Stortinget meant it. After that, a real retirement age in Norway has declined. Several older people have left the labour market despite the political desire to increase the activity of older people in the labour market in order to bring more skills and more labour into the labour market. You can choose to run much larger conversion programmes in the public sector than you have been willing to do up to now. It is therefore important to free labour resources from tasks that are being done today, but which are not intended to be done in the future. This means that not so productive sectors need to be closed down and relocated, and a much greater competitive outlay in the public sector. In this respect, I have also not experienced that there is a majority in the Norwegian Storing to run a high pace. The third route is increased immigration. We know that, over the next ten years, we are entering the labour market throughout the year, this workforce will be absorbed only by public sector needs in terms of increased efforts in the care of the elderly, increased efforts in the health sector due to more elderly people, education and in all other sectors where we are currently lacking. We do not get away from the fact that we are going to – if the Norwegian economy is going well – need increased immigration. Then we also have to have a system that is flexible and makes it easy to take in labour, and not, as we have had today, a very difficult system. It has been difficult to authorise workers with whom Norwegian enterprises have had agreements from non-EEA countries. It has taken a long time, and companies have experienced it as so difficult that they have somehow given up labour from outside if there has not been a highly skilled university-trained workforce. We have also seen that the treatment in the Norwegian system has taken a long time. As a result, the Right autumn of 1998 prioritised giving extra effort to the UDI for the treatment of work permits in the treatment of the municipal budget. The agreement between the five parties, the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party resulted in an extra effort of DKK 3 billion, which contributed to a reduction in treatment time from 14 weeks to 2 weeks. Then we start approaching a system where the seasonal working criteria can actually be applied at all. This means that you do not wait until the season is over, until you are approved and have a work permit for your employees. Follow-up to this treatment rate is important. Because we have a major challenge in the labour market in the future, it may be necessary to do something more than what is being done today. Therefore, the Right has also made a proposal that goes further, with the possibility of obtaining a work permit in Norway even if you are not a skilled person if you have a job and an agreement with an employer. We want to get that as a new case from the Government. I think it's a little striking from the signals that other parties have given in the past, that they don't want to support it. I think SV's argument is searched. That we point out in our remarks that we want to tighten up the criteria for humanitarian stay, I do not think that is a reason not to vote in favour of a proposal where we do not mention this at all, and where this is not the main intention of the proposal. We need more workers in Norway in the future. We're going to need increased immigration. I don't think there's any doubt about it. And I think we're going to need it in more areas than what's going to be related to pure vocational education, including in particular. Because so many in Norway today take vocational education themselves. I therefore think it would be wrong to go into a situation of more liberal labour immigration by putting such barriers as what you are talking about today. One should go one step further in order to be able to solve the welfare problems of our society. Then it doesn't hold, as someone has suggested, to have a quota of 1000 people per year. It's getting too small, and it's going to be a selection of some employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e421	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e424	The conservative party Right calls for help from SV in this matter, and that in itself is alarming. The right is a member of the EU and the EEA, but they will go outside the EEA and the Nordic countries to find employment. As long as you get a job, you are guaranteed a maintenance and a dwelling, you should get a work permit for a limited period of time, claims the party. What is the ‘limited period’? Furthermore, conservatives will provide opportunities for economic refugees to stay if they meet the criteria for immigration rather than seeking asylum or refugee status. Such attitudes will result in an even greater pressure on our borders with economic refugees. The limited period with which the Right operates, without specifically confirming the duration of the work permit, may lead to permanent residence in Norway and to family reunification. The legislation on labour immigration with the Right prescription will in practice contribute to the abolition of the migration stoppage of 1975, which has until now been widely agreed in Norway. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have had a similar view of labour immigration for some time, though with some nuances. The LO reacts negatively to the labour market situation and the needs of businesses that will guide the development of immigration policy in Norway. The LO opted-in admits that they argue in several ways as the Progress Party when at the same time they are not against immigrants or immigration as such, but that it is the practice of immigration policy that it responds to. Interestingly, with its strong connection with the LO and its leader, Jagland draws out parallels between Hagen’s Advance Party and Haider’s Freedom Party in Austria. For Jagland and his party, which still wants to take a rhetorical settlement with the Progress Party, is allying with the Progress Party in several areas of labour immigration. So when Ichland claims that others have a double agenda, practical politics shows something quite different. When Ichland claims that the Freedom Party and the Advance Party are part of the same political genre, I would also like to welcome the Workers' Party, and in particular Thorbjørn Jagland, after.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e435	What got me to take the floor was that I wanted to respond to the representative, Hove, who gave some characteristics of the Workers' Party's positions. I have explained those positions, that we believe it is a sensible decoration and adjustment of two existing provisions, which relate to specialists and seasonal workers. There is no disagreement about this in the Workers' Party, but these two questions have never been raised in particular either. The discussion Hove refers to had a completely different background; it was about the question of whether to generally signal increasing labour immigration, without clarifying what it was about, as a simple solution to meet a need such in the business world, but without the broad approach that many people have had in relation to the two provisions we are discussing here today. At that time, we said from the Workers' Party that we had to have a proper investigation first, before we could take a stand on the issue of increased labour migration. That there was a discussion at the time, in the general context that we just said that we want increased labour immigration, I don't think I'm unreasonable. The fact that there is no discussion in the Left must really be due to the lack of contact with both organisations and people in the labour market, in a situation where there are 60 000 unemployed, 80 000 re-employment and 70 000 part-time workers, who really want more. So there was a completely different background for that discussion, and I don't think we should be involved in the individual issues of the Government that we have to deal with today. We've got two single questions on the table. We are talking about adjustments to existing legislation, which we think makes sense. There's some clear clarifications that come in there, like, among other things. has its background in the investigation carried out by the inter-ministerial working group. I can mention this with primary responsibility for qualifying Norwegian domestic labour, and in particular with regard to the unemployment of non-Western immigrants, that domestic labour and the obligation in relation to the EEA Agreement go ahead and this with a dialogue with the social partners. We think there are two sensible, important provisions that we are in favour of, and this is the full agreement in the Labour Party. Then I don't think one needs to interfere with a debate that had a completely different starting point. I could have commented on babysitting, but it's not a big deal. Let me just finish by saying that I think we have a government council that is willing to communicate with the Stortinget regarding an area, a matter where the Stortinget should not necessarily make any decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e446	First, a few comments on questions other than those related to the last article. It is an important point to qualify the unemployed, and among the unemployed in Norway, many come from abroad, or have a so-called cultural background. But what is really very common is to qualify Norwegian employers and, for that matter, to qualify Norwegian society to see what skills these people already have. That's a point I think we should take inwards. The second concerns the discussion between Right and SV. I might not get involved in it, but I feel that the Left could be a natural participant. I just want to stress that Karin Andersen and I have promoted a Document No. Eight proposals that are meant to go further on issues that today's case is kind of a start, and you can imagine different ways of dealing with that proposal in terms of how you're going to go further based on it. And I just want to stress an invitation to the Right to participate in a dialogue related to that proposal, and I would like to make it very clear that when we vote against the Right proposal today, one will not take it for more than that, namely that we are voting against the concrete proposal as it stands today. Then to the representative, Bjørnstad. It is gratifying that the Workers' Party today comes out with the conclusion that the Workers' Party is coming out with, and that is the main point. It is also a pleasure – if it is right as it is said, and I cannot dispute it, necessarily – that there is full agreement in the Workers' Party on this. But at the same time, there is every reason to point out that the statements of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in connection with the nutrition notification are very reprehensible. It's not like you're saying that what the government is coming along with, it's going too far, but we could imagine coming back with something that went a little bit shorter. The second is that in the summer of 1999, Kjell Opseth stated very clearly that he is opposed to an embellishment of the regulations on labour immigration, as it is then said that the Government is working on it at that time. And that was exactly the kind of decoration that we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e461	I have listened with some wonder to the justification from the SV's side, and now also from the Left, to vote against the proposal that has been put forward by the Right. What is a little surprising about the justification is that, as far as I understand, you say that you really agree with the proposal, but you will nevertheless vote against it. In particular, it is surprising that, on the part of the SV, this is justified by the fact that in the comments from the Right, there is a link between the right of residence on a humanitarian basis and the pressure on applications for humanitarian residence, and the opening up of a somewhat freer access to immigration in order to serve the purpose of living. I do not understand the reasoning put forward by Karin Andersen. It is well recognised that this provision on the right of residence on a humanitarian basis is a very difficult one and that, in combination with the policy that Norway has pursued in terms of stopping immigration, it is causing us the problem that very many people are forced to try to present their life situation in such a way that it can fit the criteria for humanitarian residence. There is a situation where no one can be served – at least those who are forced to apply on this basis. A small comment on the attitude of the Progress Party in this matter. At the beginning of today's meeting, the Chairman of the Advance Party submitted a Document No. 8-proposals, which aim to safeguard the interests of the Nordics when they are living as foreign cultural people on the Sol Coast and elsewhere. It is commendable that you care for the distressed Norwegians abroad, but it does not come in a strange light when you argue at the same time the way you do in this setting. And it becomes extra strange when, in a case to be dealt with later in today's big meeting, you want to invite to set up a knowledge centre at Fornebu that will require the import of hundreds of foreign researchers, while not wanting to open up so that you can offer competitive conditions. It is with respect not to report in touch. It is simply not credible when the Progress Party is running such a double communication process as they do in cases of this kind.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e470	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e484	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual submissions. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e487	The majority will discuss later today a question about which group to build an plot on Fornebu. This is covered by a very high level of media interest. In my opinion, the issue we are now going to discuss is the question of how to help victims of violence, a much more important issue. And I must be allowed to praise the Central Party representative Tor Nymo, who has started this debate by submitting a proposal to ask the Government to consider the appointment of a wide-ranging selection with a mandate to make proposals that strengthen the victim's rights, nationally and internationally. The grounds for the Nymos proposal show that he believes that this sample should be evaluated and, where appropriate, draft a Norwegian proposal for a supplement to the European Convention on Human Rights to strengthen the protection of victims following the Commission. A unanimous Justice Department proposes to ask the Government to carry out a comprehensive review of national and international measures to strengthen the situation of victims of violence, and to present concrete measures to the Stortinge at the latest in the context of the 2001 State Budget. The Committee asks the Government to carry out a thorough review of measures to prevent abuse, which strengthen the position of the victims in the healthcare system and the judiciary and which can repair and restore the damage caused. In this context, the Committee also asks for an assessment of the appropriateness of working for an addition to the European Convention on Human Rights, which strengthens the protection of victims of violence. However, the Committee's comments focus has been on providing signals on the practical measures to help victims who should be reinforced, extended and, where appropriate, put into action. The Ministry of Justice has already carried out an evaluation of the appropriateness by drawing up an addition to the European Convention on Human Rights. There should therefore be no insurmountable work for the ministry to think through this problem once again. The Committee does not consider that the department's assessments should end with a positive or negative conclusion to the Nymos proposal. The preliminary assessments of the department are negative. In letters to the Justice Committee, the Minister of Justice writes, among others: that there is today a very difficult climate to propose or to make an impact on new protocols to the Convention and that many countries do not want to introduce new rights. The Minister of Justice then writes: ‘I would assume that resistance is particularly strong if it is to impose positive obligations that could link the allocation of resources by countries. In addition, the Court already has a very high workload. 12,000 pending cases. As a member of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly and as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights, I share such an assessment. The Court of Justice has already been completely overburdened and the people of the new Member States of Eastern Europe have not yet fully identified the possibilities for bringing an action before the Court of Justice. On the day that the court becomes as familiar in this part of Europe as here with us, the days of the court will probably be spoken, as a result of an impossible labour pressure. In such a situation, there will hardly be any climate to extend the Convention with new legal rights that need to be followed up. In a letter to the Value Commission of May last year, the Minister of Justice wrote the following: ‘In order to complement the European Convention on Human Rights with new rights, it is also necessary to ensure that the rights in question are such that they can be enforced by the European Court of Human Rights. In general, it can be said that generally formulated positive obligations for States, such as the proposed obligation to protect citizens from crime and abuse by other people and groups, may be difficult to enforce in courts, and not least international courts.’.» Also this is an assessment I far on the road share. I would at all warn against allowing human rights conventions to end up as a reminder of positive rights for the population. In most societies it is considered a natural right that the population has a good health care, a good education system, and probably also that people get help when they are knocked down or robbed by criminals. However, the amount of resources a nation should invest in these areas – no matter how important they may be – cannot be determined by a human rights court and recorded in a human rights declaration. Human rights conventions should primarily address the rights of individuals in relation to abuses by government authorities. That is why the rights of persons suspected of criminal offences are of course part of a human rights convention, while the wish of the victims for follow-up and assistance is not the same. And so it has to be. In the political debate, it is often said that the criminals have legal certainty, while the victims are without them. I think such a comparison is based on a misunderstanding. It is thought of the legal security rules applicable to suspected, intentional and accused persons who intend to prevent persons who are not criminals from being convicted of criminal acts which they have not carried out. Such legal certainty rules are a matter of course in a State governed by law and safeguard the rights of individuals vis-à-vis public authorities. They should not be mixed with and set up as a contrast to the difficult situation faced by the victims. The most important thing we can do for victims of violence is not to formulate general and therefore most often on the path of valueless rights in some human rights convention. The most important thing is that we adopt practical and functional arrangements that can help the victims in their difficult everyday lives. It is therefore also the Committee's main concern in its comments. Among the measures specifically proposed by the Committee are the following: The system of violent alarms for persons exposed to threats of gross violence should be continued. That system should have such a low entry threshold that no notification is necessary in order to be given an alarm. In addition, rapid procedure time for applications for violent alarms is important. Adequate training should be provided on the rights of victims of violence for those who come into contact with victims of violence. Information for victims of violence about existing schemes must work. The Ministry of Justice should therefore ensure that, at the same time as a victim of violence submits a notification, both oral and written information is given to the victim of the violence, inter alia. the system of compensation for victims of violence and the right to an aid lawyer. It should be assessed whether the number of legal hours provided for victims of violence is sufficient or whether the number of hours should be increased. The system of legal aid offices should be extended. Personally, I also agree with the National Association for the Victims of Violence that all the perpetrators and perpetrators of violence where the victims may have come into contact with the blood of the violent, should be immediately tested for HIV, as long as this is practicable. It should not be the responsibility of the victims to wait monthly to find out for themselves whether they are HIV infected. Knowing that a rapist or a violent person is not HIV-infected and that the victim therefore does not need to fear that he is infected with a deadly virus will obviously remove a large should from the victim's shoulders. It is the courts that today determine the general level of compensation for non-economic damage caused by victims of violence. However, the compensation authorities, the county council and the compensation committee are not bound by the assessment of compensation by the courts in the specific cases. According to a letter from the Ministry of Justice sent to the National Association for Victims of Violence, the title of compensation shall refer to the general level of compensation, as drawn up by the Supreme Court, and to decisions in comparable cases referred to earlier. It is my opinion that the compensation for non-economic damage is unreasonablely low. It should be a serious signal to all of us. Yes, it should actually make the warning lights flash quite strongly when the National Association for Victims of Violence, which has daily contact with those affected by violence, writes in a letter to the Minister of Justice that it is often when the victims come into contact with the apparatus that has the task of providing assistance, with the county councillor and the compensation committee, that they experience the greatest infringement. In fact, the National Association for Victims of Violence claims that many victims of violence take their own lives after putting their heads in the wall in contact with those who were supposed to help, because they feel that they are not worth anything. The compensation they are offered is so low that they feel neglected and misunderstood. In many cases they are also denied compensation. They're not believed. There is no known perpetrator, and the substitute subject can then claim that there is insufficient evidence that they have been the victims of violence, even though the hospital records so absolutely indicate that they speak the truth. I will draw up two examples of decisions in the Replacement Study that illustrate this problem, and which I personally find hairdressers. A now deceased person was shamed at the Palace Park in Oslo in April 1996. He got carted over the street, was picked up by a police car and drove to Ullevål hospital with severe fractures in the face skeleton. It was necessary to operate plates into the skeleton, which caused great pain and complications. He applied for compensation for non-economic damage of NOK 30 000 and was granted NOK 13 000 from the county. This amount was claimed for the Replacement Study. But before the case was dealt with there, he took his own life, according to the National Association for Victims of Violence because of his life situation after the attack, including the low amount of compensation. The claim subject was examined and concluded in its decision, which was sent to the relatives, with the following: ‘The claimant considers, in contrast to the State, that there is insufficient evidence that the applicant has been subject to a criminal offence. The case was dismissed by the police because of an unknown perpetrator, and there are no testimonies to support the claim of the applicant or to clarify the circumstances surrounding the incident. However, it is clear that the applicant was seriously damaged. However, this may not be enough to conclude that a criminal offence has occurred.» Finally, it is added that the claimant does not have the power to amend the decision of the county council in a negative direction, so that, regrettably, it still has to maintain the decision of the county council. I think it should be completely unnecessary for the compensation department to pour salt into the wound to the relatives. In my opinion, it is not necessary to act inconsiderately and without feelings, even if you are a public bureaucrat to follow a code. In addition, there is a basis for exercising reasonable judgement in such cases. Compensation should be granted if it is likely that a person has been subjected to violence. It even states in the rules that if there is a probability balance, compensation shall be provided. In fact, there's no place in the regulations of the system that there's an absolute requirement that there's a known perpetrator. Moreover, using a lack of a known perpetrator as an argument against providing compensation is doubtful in relation to the intentions of the UN Declaration of Principles on the Rights of Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power, which Norway has supported. This Declaration of Principles states that a person may be regarded as a victim in relation to the Declaration of Principles, regardless of whether the perpetrator is identified, apprehended, accused or convicted. It is also said that victims should be treated with humanity and respect for their dignity. It can hardly be said to be the case in this case. It is serious when the National Association of Victims believes that this example is not unique, but that, on the contrary, it is difficult to get compensation when there is no known perpetrator. Another example: A police officer was injured after a shooting incident, by a perpetrator who was sentenced to five years of protection for attempted murder, and to pay the police officer a compensation of $30,000. The county councilman agreed to a compensation equivalent to the sentence – i.e. NOK 30 000 for non-economic damage. Attention was paid to the extent of the damage and the serious nature of the action. The police officer, who had been scarred by the eye, on the cheek and in front of the ear and had problems moving the muscles in the cheek, and had also experienced a life-threatening situation, believed that the amount of NOK 30000 was too low and appealed to the title of compensation – which did not think the amount was too low, on the contrary. First, reference is made to a letter it itself sent to the counties in August 1996, which states that no other or stricter assessment theme should be applied to persons in particularly vulnerable occupational groups than to other victims of violence. It then changes its own perception and adds that it has, however, come to the conclusion that this starting point must be nuanced in relation to police officers. Well – so that police officers who take the risk of protecting all of us can get a higher amount of compensation? No, the opposite! The compensation student believes that police officers should receive less compensation than other victims of violence. Policemen must be prepared to be subjected to violence and, therefore, the title of compensation goes so far as to conclude that ‘within the limits of what is foreseeable in the service, much is needed to provide compensation’. According to the title of compensation – at least according to the members who were in office in December 1997 and who are still there – police officers should, as a general rule, be exempted from compensation for victims of violence, despite the fact that this is a professional group that takes on great burdens in order to ensure the lives and health of others. I really hope that the Minister of Justice disagrees with such a conclusion and that he puts the cabinet strongly in place. It is not without reason that a unanimous committee asks the Ministry to assess both the regulations, practices and, in particular, the composition of the Compensation Study. The Committee also asks the Ministry to consider whether a representative of the user organisations, i.e. the victims of violence, should be included in the Compensation Study. So briefly at the end: in February 1996, a unanimous decision was taken by the following: ‘The Government is asking for the establishment and financing of a violent victim fund to provide direct or indirect support for victims of violence, with a view to proposing such a scheme.’ I was quite satisfied when this was adopted, since it was the outcome of a private proposal from the undersigned. But I find that it has now been five years since this decision was taken, and that it has still not been followed up by the department. I must be allowed to say that I think five years is a long time to follow up a big decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e604	I am pleased with the commitment that emerges here both from the proposer in his proposal and from the rapporteur and his good consideration of the proposal and in the post here, and also the commitment that a unanimous committee shows just by the fact that it is unanimous in the whole setting. I have the impression that there are more and more people who get aha experiences when they experience a shocking discovery of many victims of violence every day. There are more and more who discover how victims are met, how they are accepted when they seek help, and what victims of violence struggle with things they absolutely should not labor with. And I think it's good that there's still more to see this. Because it must be if we are to be able to improve the position of victims of violence. There are many who need to wake up, many who need to do their part in order to get closer to a better position for the victims of violence. This applies to politicians – not just here, but politicians at all levels. It's about the police, and those who train the police, it's about the judges, it's about the health services, and it's about the case handlers at the county and the Justice Department. A lot has happened in recent years, and there are many steps that have been taken in the right direction to improve the position of victims of violence. In the spring of 1994 we discussed here in the Stortinget the so-called sacrifice proposition. It was the first time we had a comprehensive review of the law and the aid device with crime victims at the center of these assessments. It was the first time we saw the law in the perspective of the victim. In earlier times, before the modern legal society, the victim was an active participant in the process against the rapist, for example. by the Frostings Act, where we had bloodshed as a main thought. There is nothing to be desired back to, but in all its brutality the Frostings Act put the victim in the center. Today it has turned the other way. Today, violence is a matter between the state, society and the perpetrator. The victim is not only placed on the sideline but even often experiences the process against the perpetrator as a load. It's not acceptable. It is certain that the accused shall have legal certainty. That's good, we'll protect it and he'll still have it, but we must not forget the victim's rights for that reason. There were many concrete changes and measures adopted in the spring of 1994, but frustratingly much of it has been very poorly followed up. For example, information on rights and what assistance is actually available should be straightforward to implement. In 1994, a joint committee asked that we have to have an information brochure — yes, it was even suggested a manual — from a central team on what help could be obtained, and that such an information brochure should also be available locally in the policy area. Six years later we see that there is still insufficient information in this area. That's why we're asking for this again. And it doesn't help much that we're here at Stortinget, for example. expands the right to an aid lawyer with both the number of cases and what the aid lawyer can do, when the victim is not aware of having such a right and is not informed that such a right exists. Yes, sometimes you may even get the impression that the lawyers are not aware of the rights of a victim of violence. We gave aid lawyers the opportunity to play a much more active role in the trial, for example. When it comes to prosecuting claims, but here we see a very different practice. So now we're referring to it, and we're also asking for an assessment of whether the scheme should be expanded even further. The same is true of the information obligation imposed on the victim by the police on the case during the case and of the right of access granted to the victim. Here, too, we see that there are very different practices regarding how the police manage the victim's rights. We have asked for victims of violence, both in political circles and in the health services of the cities. There are many cities in our country that do not yet have. The violence alarm has also been initiated here from Stortinget, and now we are asking for this system to be expanded and improved. The ban was adopted in 1994, and there we also see very different practices. The different practices are still seen from police districts to police districts, despite the fact that there has been a lot of media focus on it, and it can hardly be said anymore that the police are not aware of the possibility. Now we also say – in relation to a restraining order – that it is necessary to consider whether it should be possible to facilitate the provision of a criminal response than can be done today when the ban is broken. As regards compensation for victims of violence from the perpetrator, we asked in 1994 that it be extended and applied to several offences and that compensation for non-economic damage be increased. The amount has remained silent here and has not been in line with the increase in compensation for direct economic loss. Victims of violence very often experience the non-economic loss as the most burdensome, and therefore it is too wrong that it has not followed in any way the development of normal compensation for economic losses. A little is done. A proposition to legitimize the compensation of the State's victims and to raise the amounts here, has been promised several times. It was promised that it would come by the autumn of 1999. And as the rapporteur said, it is now five years since the Stortinget asked to be presented with proposals for a system of victims of violence. With regard to the compensation of the State's victims of violence, it may seem that, when looking at certain examples, a review of the State system is necessary and that practice is in line with the signals of the legislator. The judges have also not followed up what Stortinget has asked of them. We have opened the way to show out the defendant and shut the doors of the courtroom, also for the sake of the victim and the victim's health. Here again we see that there are very different practices. Some courts and some judges follow up, while others may seem as if they have not seen that this possibility has now been extended. We have also asked for the measurement of longer penalties on several occasions. Something has happened, but too little in relation to the signals sent by the legislator. The list of legislative changes and measures that have been introduced in recent years, and which have been closely followed up well enough, can be made even longer. Why the victims fail so many places by so many people, it's hard to say anything about in a short time, and I'm sure a sociologist can say a lot more about it than seeing from a politician. But I will nevertheless point to one observation. It's an unpleasant observation, but nevertheless quite obvious. We've had weeks and months focusing on street violence where it's mostly young, strong men who are killed and who become victims of violence. After those weeks of focusing on it, it became much easier to discuss the victim's position. It became much easier to discuss the necessary measures to strengthen the position of victims of violence, and it became much easier to understand that violence committed in private homes is not a private matter. The same observation I have made in relation to the understanding of what a burden it may be for the victim to testify against his own assaults in the courtroom. It can be a heavy health burden. The discussion of allowing the judge to take action to facilitate the trial in the courtroom for the victim, to use the access he already has today, and also to introduce new measures, took off only when the frightened victim was no longer pictured in a woman who had been subjected to sexualized violence from her ex-husband. But when it all of a sudden was the toughest boy in the toughest bunch who sat there and was scared and not dare to testify, or when it was a professional policeman or Spaniard who was frightened and didn't dare to testify, then the understanding of the burden took the victim off, and then it took the discussion off. That's what I think I'm worried about. When it was the strong men who were the victims, it was so much easier to start a discussion than when it was the 'weak women' and the children who were the victims. I hope that today's general debate and fine words will be followed up in practice and brought us on. I think it's in its place in this unanimity and tribute to remember that the Progress Party last time we had an overall treatment of the victim's position was the party that went in to weaken the court hearings, which would just hit the weakest of the victims of violence. It was the Advance Party who opposed the expulsion of the defendant during the victim's explanation in the courtroom for the purpose of the victim. The time when the party chose to give priority to the consideration of the adopted rapist. I want to remind you that general positive perception is very good, but that's not good enough for the victim. It's the practice and the reality that's out there that counts. I hope that everyone who will follow up, at all levels, to improve the position and situation of the victim, will follow up. This also applies to the politicians at the next intersections. I hope that the Minister of Justice will bring us to the next intersections quite quickly and not too long after what is promised, and what has been asked for. I look forward to a new comprehensive review of the rights of victims of violence, as a unanimous committee now asks. At the end of the day, I just want to say that with today's knowledge, I share the rapporteur's opinion that it would hardly be appropriate to add to the Human Rights Convention to strengthen the position of the victim of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e636	Violence is one of the most serious crimes that can be committed against human beings and human dignity. In Norway, there are many serious abuses and abuses every day against many people and gross violations of the fundamental human rights freedoms of life, body, property, etc. This reduces the quality of life of victims and their relatives, and can lead to irreversible physical and mental damage. Few disappearances occur, fortunately, as a result of unlawful law enforcement against offenders, against which the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, provides primary protection. The overwhelming proportion of human freedoms violations in Norway are committed by other people and groups. Without comparison, the main problems of abuse in Norwegian communities are only very modestly captured by the EMK. It is not easy to explain to the victims why it should be. Nor is it enough to compensate victims or improve their health follow-up. The repair does nothing with the intrusion as an infringement. Nor does it increase respect for man and human dignity, often repairing only limited damage and suffering. The most important thing, man and human dignity, has a strong and growing need for transnational protection, just as the need for the perpetrator has been seen. Many forces in society contribute to breaking down respect for human dignity. Violence is a very large entertainment industry, and increased alienation between people also seems to lower the threshold for committing abuses against others. In a situation where, for various reasons, we accept even gross violence as entertainment, with the consequences it can bring, it is particularly important that we put up and strengthen the protection of the victims' human rights. It's actually about giving important and correct signals in value selection. I have in my Document No. Eight proposals stressed the importance of a holistic view of the situation of victims, i.e. preventive measures, strengthening the position of victims in the judicial and health services and repairing measures. The reason is that our system is based on the fact that the victim himself is not going to do anything to the perpetrator. It's the state, mainly police and prosecution, that's going to take care of it. At the same time, we know that the few cases of violence are decided by the judiciary, according to the living conditions survey, perhaps as little as 1-2 pst. of the cases. Even very serious cases fall outside the jurisdiction. We know that e.g. nine out of ten rape cases are filed, while the darkness figures are estimated to be very large. If we just focus on the treatment in the judiciary, the largest victim groups fall outside. If we focus on reparative measures, health care support, caregivers, settlement of claims, etc., the prevention work is outside. Of course, threats of punishment are preventative if one commits an assault, but the threat of punishment must be real and clarification must take place quickly. In any case, only a small number of cases could be dealt with by the judiciary. There is no easy solution to violence. It is therefore necessary to assess overall a wide range of measures for the victims of violence. I am therefore very pleased with the Committee's consideration of this matter and the Committee's proposal for a decision that the Storting asks the Government to carry out an overall review of national and international measures that could strengthen the situation of victims of violence. Finally, I am also very pleased that a unanimous committee in the comments says that the Government should also consider whether it might be appropriate to work for a supplement to the European Convention on Human Rights that strengthens the protection of victims of violence. I therefore have difficulties in understanding the logic of the arguments put forward by Mr Simonsen in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights, for example. the claim that there is a difficult climate today to propose reforms in this area. Maybe so. But it is hardly due to a lack of willingness among European politicians to improve the protection of victims of human rights. On the contrary, I think there is a great mood for this, and I think it is quite possible to get political feedback on the matter. However, the opposition to the system is due to the tendency of the courts to regulate detail in order to strengthen the protection of the perpetrator. Furthermore, the claim that the Court of Human Rights already has too many cases. This is undoubtedly true, but it cannot be used as a factual argument that victims should not be given clearer and strengthened rights protection. Moreover, the Convention itself does not require any further work to express positive rights for the victims, which must be taken into account when the perpetrator is tested for his rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e662	Since the Left is not represented in the Judicial Committee, I think it might be right to say a few words in connection with the matter. I would first like to stress that there is every reason to raise questions about the position of victims of violence, but that at the same time there is a difficult debate, at least if it is conducted with a lack of nuances. I agree, for my part, with much of what the rapporteur, Jan Simonsen, and the representative Ane Sofie Tömrås, has said in the debate so far. I might like to highlight in particular an important point from the representative of Ane Sofie Tömrås" posts, namely that the hidden violence may be the biggest problem, not least because it is hidden, and that it is therefore not known in the same way. Otherwise, I would like to point out that when discussing and raising questions about the position of victims of violence, it is important not only to look at justice and criminal matters. Victims of violence are also affected by inadequate consideration and preservation of society as such. There may be particular reasons to highlight police and health services as important bodies in the follow-up to victims of violence. Now, when I mention the police outside the legal system, I guess I'm thinking so much about how you meet the victims of violence, what attitude you're adopting, like exactly the specific content of the criminal proceedings themselves. So to the question of human rights. For my part, I would like to follow up on it in many ways as I have seen the case rapporteur highlight. I think it is important to stress and emphasise that human rights are first and foremost a matter of rights for the citizen in relation to the state. It is the State that is obliged, and it is the individual citizen who is the rightholder in relation to the issue of human rights. Violence is primarily a matter of relationships between citizens. It is between individuals that violence is perpetrated. It places this in a different position from human rights issues than, for example: criminal proceedings, where it is precisely the State as the authority that persecutes individuals. But the fact that this is not necessarily a question that is suitable for becoming a human right does not make the question less important for that reason. It is important to limit to the perception that everything good in order to be good has to be defined as a human right. It's actually very central to highlighting. I just want to finish by saying that on the left hand side, we support the committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e682	Today’s state compensation scheme for victims of violence has rightly been strongly criticised for having paid a maximum of NOK 200000 after it, regardless of the victim’s abuse. Today's roof does not in any way cover the damage caused by many victims of violence, particularly to persons who suffer extensive injuries and permanent medical disability. If compensation for the victims of violence is to be fully compensated, today’s thanks will be a poor solution for most victims of violence, with the resulting economic problems they face. The climate in Stortinget seems to be speaking for the strengthening of the protection of victims of violence, and it is time. It is a paradox and an unfortunate practice when victims of violence have to wait for compensation for an indefinite period of time, as it is today. I'll take one example. Three years ago, a specified person was turned out to be ill-healthy. The county council would not deal with his application for compensation for victims of violence. Instead, the same statesman has sent a bill for free legal assistance. The message was that the proportion of NOK 1 196 for legal aid was to be paid first. The central government collection centre will send giro or possibly deduct the amount from your disability, was the message in the form of a letter from the county. This was the last response I received. So far, the victim of violence had only had expenses. But nothing happened to the compensation from the man who hurt a person for life. The impropriety is primarily about the demand for public money without the victim of the violence being compensated. In this case it was about approx. NOK 50 000. The question will include: if the county has no obligation to help victims of violence to obtain compensation before such claims are made. Isn't the victim of the violence supposed to have this first aid from the state? Such unworthy treatment of victims of violence, which are nationals of that country, should not occur in the opinion of the Progress Party. However, the replacement has evolved into a special scheme, where the practice in the Compensation Study is that one third of what would otherwise have been paid under so-called general rules. The claimant’s claim for compensation for victims of violence also appears to be illogical, but today the Supreme Court’s practice in damages cases is being followed. Victims of violence are clearly a down-priority group, and the trust in the Norwegian judicial system is so low that many victims of violence do not have the power to fight through a lawsuit to get the perpetrator convicted. According to Article 3 of the Convention on Human Rights, which many people have been in today's world, it says: «No one must be subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.» There is something fundamentally wrong here, which the Progress Party is responding to. The Convention does not provide practical protection for the victims, only for the perpetrators. This unfair discrimination reacts to normal people and has difficulties in understanding. Today, the attacker is protected in every way, while the victims, after all, have violated their human dignity in the most serious way, hardly have any rights of importance. This will end the Progress Party and change the status of victims of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e702	As Minister of Justice, I am very concerned about improving the situation of the victims of violence, and a number of measures are being taken in these days to strengthen the position of the victims in my department. First of all, we have carried out a thorough review of the state system of compensation for the victims of violence and will propose that the system now be legalised. In this context, it will be proposed that the scheme be rights-based instead of being a cheap scheme as it is today. The maximum amount under the scheme will be proposed to increase from NOK 200000 to SEK 1 million. kr per. damage cases, such that the victims most severely affected are properly covered. The proposal for a new law will be put to the consultation in a short time. In order to get a proper picture of the offer of victims of violence and to be able to develop appropriate support measures, it is also important, in my view, that the compensation scheme for victims of violence be seen in the context of the social security and support schemes in place. The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Administration are currently investigating possible extensions of social security and support schemes that can meet the specific needs of victims of violence. There is a lot of evidence that a victim of violence has so many complex situations that the public support system simply cannot sort. And precisely because you're in such a complex situation, you shouldn't get into the unreasonable situation that you don't get judged as a whole human being. This is the background for the review that is now taking place between three departments. The Committee also points to the need to extend the system of advisory services for victims of violence. Experience so far suggests that there is a great need for such a first - line service for victims of crime. It has now been decided to set up four new advisory offices, in addition to the five already established. In the clinics, victims of crime will be able to receive guidance on how to deal with their case, how to obtain professional assistance if needed, and information on what is happening in the courts in the event of legal proceedings. The Ministry of Justice is carrying out a trial project with violent alarms. This scheme has a low entry threshold and notification is not necessarily required in order to be given an alarm. Currently there are 150 active alarms. The project has been evaluated and we do not consider whether the scheme should be continued, but how the scheme should be improved, as it does. is set out in the previously submitted action plan on action against violence in society. We believe that the violent alarm system is a reasonable and effective preventive measure that increases the security of those at risk and reduces the risk of being exposed to new criminal acts. The Committee stresses the need for adequate training on the rights of victims of violence for those who come into contact with victims of violence. A general information brochure, ‘From notification to judgment’, has been prepared and sent to public authorities throughout the country. In addition, all police districts have developed a small folder containing information on local institutions and bodies capable of providing direct and practical assistance to victims of violence. Both individual and general prevention considerations and the consideration of the victim and intended to ensure that criminal proceedings are settled as quickly as possible. Waiting for clarification can be a heavy burden for all parties involved. In 1999, the Ministry of Justice put in place considerable resources to reduce the length of proceedings in courts. Faster case resolution is one of the highest priority tasks for the justice sector. In the light of the many measures already under way by the Ministry, I look forward to meeting the wishes of the Justice Committee for a comprehensive review of national and international measures to strengthen the situation of victims of violence. I also want to add two things in terms of replacement practices. I have heard and noticed the various examples that have been presented by representatives, and I have also heard the reasoning that should have been applied in the case of people in professions that are said to be more violent than others. Here I am referring to the following: on 12 August 1998, the Chairman of the Compensation Board issued a general opinion to the County of Westfold stating that persons in particularly vulnerable occupations initially have the same protection after compensation for victims of violence as other victims. That's the logic I use when I assume that the denominator is going to deal with matters. I will, of course, follow closely the practice of the denominator, and I will also follow up the practical points made by the Committee in this area in terms of the concept of replacement and practice. At all events, the Committee's position has been a strong and strong incentive to put the victims' case on the agenda, and I would like to commend both the Committee, the rapporteur and the proposer Tor Nymo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e723	Just a small, short post – I had a significantly longer post today. Let me first say that I am quite excited about the great press interest it is for this debate on the victims of violence [[muttering in the hall]] It was the representative, Mr Tömerås, who made me take the floor. She had a committed, idealistic, rich and very good post. In the end, she carefully criticised the earlier positions and scepticism of the Advancement Party to change the rules for child referencing. Our point at the time was, as it is still, that we must ensure that judicial hearings take place in such a way that we do not get a new Bjugn case and that we do not create new victims of violence. The same is true of the issue of the right of defendant to be present in a courtroom in his own case. It is a considerable psychological burden for a victim of violence to see the defendant in the courtroom. On the other hand, an accused person has the right to hear what arguments are being used against him so that he can defend himself, so here we have to find reasonable compromises. The fight to help victims of violence must not weaken legal certainty in a way that leads to new tragedies in the form of the murder of the judiciary. And finally – it is probably necessary to say that also for a representative of the Progress Party: Some of the most traumatic for many victims of violence is actually to experience that when the rapist is actually convicted, he does not receive a punishment that is fair for the victim of the violence. You can kill a person, the victim can get permanent injuries, head injuries and migraine pain for the rest of his life, and the perpetrator gets away with two or three months in prison – January, February, March – and then he's out on the street again. That is why our demand for stricter penalties is also a demand for more justice for victims of violence, and also a question of relieving the pain of the victim of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e733	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e749	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e763	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time of the groups be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, broken down as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition to the allocated speaking time for the groups, the President will propose that an additional 5 minutes be given to each member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Kristin Halvorsen – for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e776	This is a matter of great public interest, and from the SV side we see no reason to run with such a tight debate. I therefore propose that up to five lines be opened after the principal figures, and not three, as proposed by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e781	Kristin Halvorsen has addressed a proposal for a revised debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e784	It is quite right, as Kristin Halvorsen says, that this is a matter of great public interest, and potentially with great consequences, therefore it would be totally unreasonable to limit the debate as strongly as it has been done. I would therefore like to support the proposal that has just been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e789	In the Workers' Party, we want to be generous. Although the Committee has opted for a different discussion, we think it is perfectly right that we extend the lines according to the main figures, and support the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e794	It is usually the case that one of the Committee's wishes in the field of debate is being followed. Now I have listened to what the other parliamentary leaders have said. We do not wish to oppose the extension of this reply, but I assume that it will also be assessed in the future by the committee which always has a case under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e799	Since neither the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party nor the Vice-Chairman is present, I take the liberty of being in favour of the proposal put forward by the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e804	Since the president has no record in this matter, the signals that have arrived seem to point in the direction that the SV's proposal for an extension of the sequence from three to five lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers is also what the Assembly wants to support. The President takes the view that the debate that the President has read is accepted with the change that the reply will be extended from three to five lines after the speeches by the main speakers. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e811	This is the ninth time in just over two years that Stortinget deals with the plans for an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Many may think it's strange, almost parochial, for what was initially about the use of Fornebu. But what has made this case so special is that it has actually become a symbol that accommodates many of the political tensions that result from the ongoing era change: the transition from the traditional industrial community to a new economy. Most people seem to agree that the old worldview is about to change. But there is no consensus as to what the new world picture is all about, and what kind of policy should be pursued here. IT-Fornebu is one of many instruments to meet the challenges of the new economy. This is reflected in the comments and proposals of the majority of the Committee. As the vote shows, the minority has a different opinion, and the representatives of these parties themselves will elaborate their own proposals and views. But this matter has also raised other issues of a principle nature. One of these concerns the relationship between government and grossing up. Many have wondered why the Storting has gone so far in tightening up with the Government. To that I have two comments: Firstly, it is a matter of real political disagreement. The majority of the population throughout the process have wanted a strong and internationally attractive knowledge centre. The government, from the very beginning, has shown both reluctance and disagreement with regard to the decision itself, even after the central parties voted in favour of the establishment of a centre. Because the majority has wished, and stressed, a policy other than that of the Government in this matter, this majority has also exercised its democratic right and duty to investigate and implement it. Secondly, last spring the government accepted that the Stortinget would make the final decision on which actor was to be commissioned to develop a knowledge centre at Fornebu. Here, then, there is no even disagreement as to the role of the Stortinge. The Government and the Storting have agreed that the final decision lies in the Stortinget. There is therefore no basis for an ex-post accusation of major mining when it appears that the Government’s recommendation is not being followed. As a basis for the decision to be taken by the Grand Duchy today, during previous proceedings the Grand Duchy has defined a number of concrete criteria and guidelines. Extensive negotiations have been conducted between the State and the private stakeholders. There is, therefore, a very solid basis for decision-making on the choice of stakeholders by the Storting. And I have to add: on this occasion, there has been an unusually thorough procedure, which makes the Storting stand on safe ground when it comes to making its choice. The majority of the Industry Committee has given particular attention to four criteria for the selection of stakeholders: the international anchoring and attractiveness of attracting foreign stakeholders, the regional dimension, the willingness to invest its own resources and the size and ambition of the project. In addition, a large majority of the state negotiating delegation also took up IT fornebu Technoport. From this point of view, the majority of the Stortinget Business Committee has appointed IT Fornebu Technoport as its private negotiating partner for the new national IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. We're doing it based on the assurance that this is clearly the best and most forward-looking project. Another issue of major importance is the role of the state. Many have asked how the Progress Party can go in order for the State to participate in such a project. Our answer is that the role of the state in the new knowledge-based economy will be completely different from that of the industrial economy, where state ownership was an instrument of government governance and control. Why are Telenor and Statoil working for the privatisation of their own businesses? Of course, because they cannot survive in an increasingly globalised economy if they remain bound by the many constraints of state ownership. The main role of the state towards business is to facilitate private initiative. Activities focus on education, research and development and other forms of incentives through industrial policy framework conditions. Where the State is to act as owner, it is becoming increasingly important to act as a private owner. In order to act as a competent owner, the State must develop market competence and act in ways that ensure that the State ownership role is more and more equal to the role of the private competent owner. From this perspective, the intention agreement between IT Fornebu and SIVA is very interesting. Over the years, SIVA has developed a competence in developing innovation environments based on a concept similar to IT Fornebu Technoport. Even more interesting is the fact that the agreement opens up the privatisation of a system that has so far been run by the state. There is no reason to hide that this process will be very demanding for all parties, but may lead to the development of knowledge centres in addition to the country which contribute to the development of profitable business activities on a very different scale from today. In this case, IT Fornebu will more than meet one of the Stortinge’s most important criteria for a knowledge centre in Fornebu, namely to interact with regions that can contribute to the development of food across the country. Gunnar Kvassheim, parliamentary leader of the Left, even said in today's business on the 2nd of March that he felt there is reason to fear that private investors would make it more difficult for what he calls the Fornebu Centre's competitors. We see it as SIVA's knowledge environment representing partners and not competitors to the Fornebu Centre. Reactions have been received from various government councils regarding the majority’s proposal to facilitate SIVA to become the body responsible for the state’s interests in the IT and knowledge centre, and I would like to stress in this respect that the majority’s proposal has the best intention and is based on what the Government itself says in the proposition we are dealing with today, namely that SIVA and SND will be natural cooperatives for the incubator business to be run by private operators. Furthermore, the Government of the Proposition says that SIVA and SND will be involved in concreteising such links between a centre in Fornebu and business areas, knowledge parks and research parks elsewhere in the country. But in the light of the reactions of various governments, and not to doubt the Government's willingness to play a central role, we have decided that we will turn the proposal that deals with this into a transmission proposal. On this basis, on behalf of the majority – the Labour Party and the Progress Party – I will convert the proposal for Decision II into a transmission proposal. We take the government seriously when it says that SIVA is going to be a central actor. We're counting on a high pace of the issue of the organisation of state interests in the knowledge center, because it's urgent. The government itself says in the proposition that within eight weeks of the Grand Duchy's approval, the companies must be capitalised, elected and transferred. It has surprised me that the Government attaches so much importance to the state being given strong influence and lasting control over the knowledge centre, to use the Government's own formulations, and that state ownership is used as an instrument to exercise such power. Especially strange is that the Left, who claims to be against all kinds of socialism, as its main instrument, chooses an old-fashioned governing socialism that most thought died with the cold war. The Progress Party believes that the State has a role to play in the realisation of the knowledge centre at Fornebu as an initiator of private initiative. By entering into the cooperative for the first time, the State contributes to making it easier to attract private capital. It ensures a good flow of information to the state and will help maintain public focus on Fornebu in the future. This is the model followed by the knowledge centre in Oulu, Finland. When the project is successful, the state can sell out. In Oulu, this happened with significant profits for taxpayers. A third question of principle interest is the international dimension. Much of the debate has focused on the role of the regions and the fear that a strong Fornebu centre will vacuum the regions for competence. However, few have pointed out that Norway is a far cry from the rest of the world, and that Norwegian competence is also seeking where the conditions are best. In fact, there has been a worrying shift of Norwegian knowledge businesses and key stakeholders to other countries in recent years. Thus, the Fornebu debate is probably an example of Norway losing foothold in relation to the rest of the world. We live and act like the world ends at Svinesund. We can do this apparently because our generation largely lives on oil revenues we don't know when it ends. Ireland and Finland are the two countries in Europe that have found most successful policy solutions that exploit the opportunities created by the new technologies. But it took a painful political change. What made it possible was that both countries were in a deep crisis. Our challenge will be to make a political transition within the framework of a good economy. Globalisation of the economy and technological change, however, means that developments in Norwegian society are affected by what is happening in the rest of the world, to a greater extent than ever before in history. These changes are not politically governed but occur outside the political space. This means that Norwegian authorities are increasingly able to influence the decisions governed by the development of Norwegian society. The consequence is that, in many cases, the Norwegian political authorities risk becoming a passive intermediary and implement the decisions of others, while the political decisions we actually make are increasingly perceived as irrelevant to the demands and needs of the new economy. This does not unexpectedly create a growing alienation between politicians and voters. I understand that it is perceived as a problem that the government has played such a small role in the design of the Fornebu idea and the new business policy to which this idea gives inspiration. The process leading up to the conclusions to be drawn by the Grand Duchy today has been marked by great openness and wide-ranging debate. There have been proper accusations of cooking and decision-making in darkened rooms, so to let stakeholders present their plans openly and reveal all aspects of the decision-making process, Stortinget decided to hold a full day’s open hearing on Fornebu. As a wholesaler, I react to claims both in the media and from colleagues in Stortinget that there is no objective political assessment of the stakeholders. Some later to believe that decision-makers have let themselves be influenced or seduced by one interested party. This is both unfair, unfair and hurtful. It is very interesting to observe that this hearing did not reveal any surprises, no contacts or actions that the Storting did not know about. The explanation is that there has always been an open and democratic process in which all parties have been heard. There has also been a strength for the project and for the political process that effective competition between interested parties has been implemented. On this point, I would like to pay tribute to Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Lars Sponheim. As a final topic, I will address the question of housing in the knowledge centre, which has been one of the Government's objections to IT Fornebu Technoport. In this area, which the state places in the centre, 600 student housing units of 50 m2 and 210 rental homes are planned, each of 100 m2. This is part of a plan to facilitate both students and workers from abroad to work at the knowledge centre for a period. Not least, this is done to meet the wishes of foreign companies that have expressed an interest in assigning development functions to a knowledge centre at Fornebu. This is far from housing speculation; it is an important contribution to industrial development. If Norway succeeds as a nation in the new economy, the key is competence. The competition for knowledge resources is global. Those with the most attractive skills will seek to find the most exciting professional challenges and the best living and living conditions. To succeed, the knowledge centre at Fornebu must combine all these elements, and above all, show the will and ability to think new and untraditional. Finally, I would recommend setting I and III and draw attention to what I said about turning II into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e866	For its part, the President will satisfy himself that he has understood correctly if he says that it is the majority behind II who wants to turn it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e870	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e875	Then the President has understood that all others have clearly understood. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e880	The use of the aerodrome area on Fornebu has been a matter of paradox. We in the Christian People's Party have agreed – and still do – to establish an international IT and knowledge centre to take care of important regional and national interests. Research, education and business shall contribute to a forward-looking development in the new IT industry. The impression of the batch of progress tries to create in general is that the lot will have minimal State involvement in business, cf. agriculture, industry, etc. But in this case, after all, the vote of the Progress Party will lead to a monthly increase in the use of public money in business, when it comes to housing projects, etc. Joining the Labour Party should not be a surprise for anyone. In that party, the treasury has been used diligently over time. But that the Progress Party should land in this way is a paradox. The fact that one specifically determines which government body is to participate is also a paradox. Overmanagement is probably the right word. Where, then, is the goal of the Progress Party on Reduced Public Intervention? Can the representative Hedstrøm try to explain that to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e889	We're separating the new knowledge economy from the traditional economy and the industrial society. It is clear that Norway will succeed in high-tech areas and not still to a large extent as a commodity supplier, we need to get out of the commodity clamp. Research, education, innovation, continuing training, etc. must be pursued. And I want to remind the Storting that one calendar year is seven data years. So here everything happens explosively, and we have to be in this competition if we're going to succeed. To date, Norway is the only country in the Nordic region that has not developed or is developing an internationally competitive IT and knowledge centre. Of the two remaining competitors, IT Fornebu Technoport points out clearly. They invest the most private capital – 780 million. kr in the property company – they have a number of international and regional contacts, and they have a much more elaborate project at all. But I guess that should just be missing, because they've been working to achieve their goal for almost four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e896	As an extension of the end of Hedstrom, where he said they had worked for four years, he could have added: and in close cooperation with, among others. Hedstrom. When I heard the post from Hedstrom, where he kind of took us into the old world picture and partly drew the new one, I felt committed to a meeting with the Northmen with the Lucekofte who had not seen their first PC. That is not the world we live in! The ICT industry already has a turnover of between 150 and 200 billion dollars a year, so we're not in any way noisier in this area. When Hedstrom and the big crowd talk about the state's tasks in the new world being completely different from those of the old, I wonder which world Hedstrom is in. And when he talked about governance socialism, yes, it ran into my mind that now I'm talking to an expert, because in the Address Paper a few days ago, we could read about exactly what's going on in governance, what's going on about the lack of trust in the Government and the government council Sponheim. This whole setting shows that Hedstrom and the bulk of the population have wanted to park State Council Sponheim for all future. You don't trust. It says explicitly in that newspaper article, and there are also indirect lines between the entire settings. It is stated in the Address Paper: ‘It is obvious that the SIVA Decision is a form of instruction. We know where we want to go. So it's up to the government to choose if they want to be instructed," says the Øystein Hedstrøm of the Progress Party." My question to Hedstrøm is, how are the big crowds going to keep Sponheim in their ears? What has happened during the last day that suggests that the lack of confidence that has been present during the setting and that was expressed in the statements that have been made after the setting was issued has changed so fundamentally that it now seems quite unnecessary to take the control that he has exercised for so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e910	I will begin my reply by reading from St.prp. No 35, which we are dealing with today, for what is laid down in it, I expect the Government and the Prime Minister to be behind: «In St. Announcement. No 13 provided that incubator activities were to be conducted by private operators, but that SIVA and SND would be natural cooperation actors. [[1998-99]] The Government will provide appropriate tools through SND and SIVA to strengthen the regional IT and competence centres and their interaction with a future environment at Fornebu. The centre could be beneficial to the professional communities in the districts if strong and binding links are established between the IT centre and other R & D environments and enterprises. SND and SIVA will help to specify such links between a centre in Fornebu and business areas, knowledge parks... ‘and research parks... elsewhere in the country’. So the majority's proposal, now converted into a transmission proposal, had a good intention. This is essentially, as I'm interpreting it, in line with what's laid down in the proposition. And we trust that the Government will continue to play a central role in SIVA, because we in the Progress Party believe that SIVA in the regions – and this is, in fact, something the Stortinge has argued for us to have positive ring-effects in the regions – is the country's strongest device for innovation and industrial development. We actually thought that the idea was good, that you should get more privately competent capital into the regions to vitalize this part. This is in line with what the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research has also achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e920	I am very pleased to hear that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have confidence both in the Government and in the SIVA, and that they use the Government's wording to justify that it is no longer necessary to maintain II in the proposal for a decision. I think that's great, and also the fact that we can now talk about cooperation to get to the Fornebu project instead of contact and tweezers management, which has been discussed in this case so many times before. The matter could have been remembered because of the detailed management that it has been tried on. It was during a period such that the Spjøtvoll committee received five weeks in its important investigation, and the government had five weeks to present the matter to the Stortinget. And for a period of time there were also rumors that tender papers were to be sent to Stortingen to allow the depositors to study them. But we have had a process where it has been a good result, and I now think it seems that we can get a good process on. Then I will commend the Advance Party for their view of the state as a partner and as a owner. In the new economy, the state has to act as a private owner, not old-fashioned, but it has to be in a way that private owners act, i.e., according to both the economy and other goals that owners have. And the state has its goal of being owner, at Fornebu, among others. by conducting so that there won't be too much centralization out of it. I think it's great that the Progress Party agrees. Then the state capital has to be involved to make it easier to raise private capital. But we have some places in the country where there's even less private capital than what we have around Fornebu. And the question for the Progress Party is: Will the Advance Party bet as offensively outside the Oslo area as it indicates that the state will do in the Oslo area, where hundreds of million dollars more than what is on the paper today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e931	I would like to thank you for the praise I, after all, get from the committee leader, Morten Lund. It's warming. [[muttering in the hall]] Now it is possible that there was a slight misunderstanding as to the position of the Advance Party in the use of public funds in industrial activities. There we stand at our primary position. We believe that private individuals should run this business in the ordinary or conventional industry. But in the high-tech areas, we have come to – at least in the case of Fornebu – that the state should have a supporting role, and that has been important to us. If it had been time, I would have come a little bit more into it. But see what happened in Oulu in Finland at the end of the 1980s, in Kista in Sweden and now in Ørestaden. We here in Norway are arguing about who is talking to who and who is eating dinner with who, but the centres of gravity in the high-tech areas are moving, and it's gone from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e938	It is obvious to everyone that the Progress Party has got cold feet during the night, and so far there is a rather pitiful gastric saxe rapporteur Hedstrom has presented here in the hall. But we'll see how far it goes. What does it mean that the II of the proposal for a decision is now being converted into a transmission proposal? Is it that the bulk of the population no longer means what is actually in the setting? This is the ninth time the matter of IT Fornebu is in Stortinget in some form. Two of the nine times it has come here on the initiative of the Government. Seven out of the nine times, the majority of people have taken the initiative, and it has been to follow up not only decisions but also so-called leads, namely the points of view that have been expressed in comments in the votes. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative Hedstrøm about the following: Is it such that the bulk of the population no longer believes what is in the setting, and in no way will they follow up what they themselves have written about the role of SIVA in the field of IT Fornebu, that they denounce the possibility of moving forward on this track, and it is entirely up to the Government to handle this? Or is it that today you have been given cold feet and invite both government and greatness to short-term fun, but in four or eight weeks the whole game is going on again?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e949	As far as the role of SIVA is concerned, I understand that the government has long wanted both SIVA and SND to play a central role, among other things. in the case of the incubator activity at Fornebu. What we know about SIVA is that they have developed an incubator model that is quite similar to what you want to develop at Fornebu. First of all, it is the intention to have a common incubator between Fornebu and Gaustadbeckdalen – the Research Park is a bit of this – and then it becomes a win-win situation that Fornebu has synergistic effects by pulling on SIVA and vice versa. Then it was essentially intended that these should facilitate competent capital in the regions. I think that's basically a very good idea, and I hope the government will continue to work on it. As for the choice of actor, I will repeat to the representative Halvorsen what I said in my main post: here the majority has not changed their view. We stand on IT Fornebu Technoport and maintain you in the proposal for a decision. We're justifying that there are miles of differences in the quality of these two options. IT Fornebu Technoport has a much more elaborate concept. They inject almost three times as much private competent capital as the competitor and have solid international contacts with both foreign universities and American companies that, if they get the framework conditions they want, may be interested in establishing research and development departments at Fornebu. They have also been proven to be the most advanced in terms of the regional dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e956	It is a fundamental misunderstanding to interpret Johan Sverdrup's well-known statement "all power in this room" as a call for the Storting to exercise government power. The President has called for a seminar on the theme of the division of roles between magnificence and government. In my opinion, the issue we are dealing with today is one of the worst examples of big business. Quite rightly, the situation has improved somewhat after the II of the proposal for a decision has been drawn up and turned into a transmission proposal, but unfortunately, I am afraid that the positions on which it is based and the leaders in II are still there. My question to the representative Hedstrøm will then be: Does the representative Hedstrøm and the Progress Party agree with the President-in-Office that it is important to have a seminar for policy makers to review the role-sharing between accumulation and government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e964	For a long time now, we have had a situation of minority parliamentarism in Norway. What does this mean in practice? Well, that means that the government that sits in many cases must be more responsive to the majority of the Storting. My personal opinion is that this is a continuous process, it is not something that is fixed, but there is a development in relation to this. But it is clear to me that there are very few large-scale representatives who are legal scholars in the sense that they can interpret the Norwegian constitution. I think that all of us sitting here may need help, get a tool to better know how to work in this room. But my conclusion is that this is a continuous development process, it's not something that's solid and rigid, the situation and interpretation of the legal system can be completely different in 10, 15 or 20 years from today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e969	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e972	It is now time to finally realise a national IT centre at Fornebu, a centre that can become internationally competitive, stimulate regional development, interact with educational and research institutions, create an environment for good ideas and not least develop them into new business development. If researchers are right, we need to create 800,000 new jobs here in this country within a 20-year period to replace the decline in traditional industries. In such a situation, we need to highly stimulate nutritional areas with a potential for growth, for example: in the field of knowledge and technology-based actions. But while countries around us and in the Nordic region are investing enormously in such technology-based knowledge-intensive development environment, for months and years we are discussing whether to engage and invest 260 or 425 million. and take responsibility for the realisation of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. After a while, the government has been somewhat contradictory to a government commitment, but still it seems that the goal is to make the center as small as possible near all areas. But let me say once again: the centre must be strong enough to deliver something to the regions and to become internationally competitive. A somewhat spooky IT center will all lose weight. The majority of the population already said in February 1999 during the treatment of St.meld No. 13 for 1998-99 that the state should enter into the values of the state’s property at Fornebu. This would be an investment in a nutrition project that the country desperately needs, and here the state would be able to sell out that when it would be desirable. In my view, this is also good financial management and everything but subsidisation. Nevertheless, the opponents claimed that this was the subsidisation of Fred. Olsen and his collaborators with billions of dollars, a claim that has stuck with the media and others, so that I have to use this opportunity once again to kill this myth. Now we know that the EEA tariff for the property is NOK 425 million. The starting point for the Government was – and it still stands on the right – that the property should be sold. So we would have released 425 million. kr that we could use for so many other good purposes – for all things. But the problem in Norway is not a lack of capital. Our challenge will therefore be how to use state capital strength to invest within priority areas in order to make Norwegian business better able to compete in global competition? We need a new business policy to address this. The Fornebu project has many of the elements of such a new industrial policy, for example: Stimulation of strong business clusters before the new knowledge industries that companies increase investment in research, education and knowledge development that foreign companies invest and establish knowledge and capital in Norway entrepreneurship and innovation through private venture capital links with competent entrepreneurs Through the eight previous treatments of this issue in the Grand Duchy, the Grand Duchy has clarified the objectives, intentions and content of such a centre. The size has also shown what needs to be taken into account in the choice of the country’s partners. Stortingspleirtalen has in Innst. S. No 244 for 1998-99 also said that the Government had to make a scheme so that the Storting could assess the boda on a self-contained basis. When the Government accepted this in May 1999, it should also be made public that they accept that the Storting makes a different choice than the Government recommends. Correctly, the State Council, Sponheim, at the National Council meeting of the Left, the following: ‘I am, as an innovation minister and IT minister, very afraid to go into the second project’ – I believe that it is about IT fornebu Technoport – ‘a project with an open end, which makes it even more unclear how much money the state needs to get up with’. The Prime Minister also used similar words in the spontaneous Question Time last Wednesday. But both the Council of State and the Prime Minister know that the Great Britain majority have said that the state will go in with NOK 425 million. So far, it's allowed NOK 260 million. The majority have never said that the State should expand its share capital in order to maintain the relative part at all times. On the contrary, we have said that it should be possible for the state to sell out again after a time, if one finds it right. When it comes to the selection of the actor, the case-speaker has done some good for the plural setting that the Labour Party is also involved in. Let me just comment on one criterion: the owners themselves are betting almost three times as much as the Fornebu Network, 780 million. NOK 300 million. kr. Our impression is that they have a more elaborate concept. The largest and most advanced IT company in the country, Telenor, is the main shareholder. They have a much stronger anchor in different and important environments with their shareholders from business, research, education and trade. They therefore represent a width that a knowledge centre must have in order to succeed. An important regional policy approach that can grow out of the Fornebu concept is the intentional agreement between IT Fornebu AS and SIVA. The different development environments developed by SIVA are largely based on the same concept as IT Fornebu. The great delimitation has been the lack of private competent capital. We believe that SIVA, with its experience and competence, can become a valuable partner with the private actor at Fornebu. In view of the noise that has been surrounding this in the last few days, I will refer to SIVA's board of directors' decision of 16 February this year. Here's what it says: ‘SIVA has, in various contexts, taken the initiative to ensure that any development of an IT centre on Fornebu should be seen in the context of the development of strong regional innovation systems. In particular, reference is made to the Management Board’s opinion of 3 May 1999, which was transmitted to KRD, where the Management Board has also underlined that SIVA should be given the State ownership role at Fornebu.’.» I record in the media that point II of the submitted decision is perceived as an over-management of the Government and individual state councils. We don't see it that way. Nothing has been said here about which department will be responsible for the implementation. It must be up to the Government. Based on the proposition that the Government will provide a tool through the SIVA to strengthen the regional IT and competence centres and their interactions with the IT centre and other research and development environments and businesses, one would also believe that the Government was united in such a scheme. Today's papers also refer to former Secretary of State Per N. Hagen, who says that SIVA did not go behind the government's back when the company signed an agreement with IT Fornebu. Hagen, who was the Secretary of State last year, provides clear support for the Memorandum of Understanding. If the government didn't know about this, yes, then they probably have an internal problem. The case-leader now proposes to turn point II into a transmission proposal. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing is that we now get the focus on the matter, an implementation of the plans for such a centre and the choice of the actor who makes this happen. That is why we are involved in such a transmission as the case spokesperson referred to. If the government follows its own intentions, there would be no problem at all. That is what we are going to do, because the commitment agreement is a good one that should be implemented. The fact that we turn it into a transmission proposal doesn't mean that the majority have changed their vision. The majority still believe that the intention agreement concluded between SIVA and IT Fornebu Technoport is a good agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1019	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1022	After all, the Labour Party has its seat with government authority for many years, in fact for too many years, and the representative Rudihagen even has our State Secretary at the Opseth Council. In IT Fornebu-saka, which is now being handled for the ninth time, the will for detail management has always been amazingly great. Rightly, the proposal that totally made the Greatness of the Government's prolonged bureaucracy is now reversed. Although I understand that the Workers' Party is extending back to the government offices, my question about the Workers' Party will be this way in the future when, in a very long time, I hope, they will have government power. Will the Workers' Party accept that the Storting continues its detailed management of the Government's responsibilities? Rudihagen has experience in how it is to sit in government, and how the division of powers should be, so I guess he can answer it. Or does the Workers' Party, perhaps together with the Progress Party, now intend to participate in the Presidency's course on big business on Monday?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1027	I don't find any reason to start commenting on this with my role as Secretary of State, etc., but the question of big business, the relationship between big business and the executive, I've been a topic in this case here. I thought a lot of things were going to be turned around on my head, because the question is the whole time whether the body will follow up the Stortinge's vision, the big crowd's opinion. That is what is parliamentaryism, not the question that the Storting should override and go far into the responsibility of the Government. As Mr Seele pointed out, this is the ninth time we are dealing with this matter. I think that through all these rounds, the Storting has been reasonably clear about what kind of IT and knowledge centres we want at Fornebu – when it comes to size, when it comes to making it internationally powerful, when it comes to betting regions and local development environment, and when it comes to interaction with existing educational and research institutions, etc. Through these treatments, the Stortinget has expressed a clear view of such a centre, and there has always been a question of whether the executive body would carry out what the majority of people have meant in this matter. I think that is quite clearly in line with parliamentaryism. It's not a question of big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1034	Mr Rudihagen pointed out, in connection with the transmission proposal, that the majority – that is, the Labour Party and the Progress Party – did not change their view on the content of the proposal. The proposal is because, as far as I am aware, there is no confidence in the Council of State. It is explicitly stated in an article in the Address Paper, where Rudihagen says: «We simply do not trust Sponheim in this matter». And in that context, this proposal has been promoted. Today, when this proposal is converted into a transmission proposal, is it so that something has happened in relation to the Government's promises to follow up what is from the bulk of the population? Or is it that you're just remodeling this proposal, and then you're ready to have your finger on the trigger and are you ready to make new proposals to re-open the case if Sponheim doesn't do what the bulk of people expect? The Rudihagen itself was involved in the relationship between big business and government. I could imagine asking on a general basis: what is Rudihagen's view of a situation where a party explicitly states that it does not trust a government council? What would have been a logical consequence of this — is it through a decision to collapse, a plenary decision, to instruct, or is it to express explicit trust or lack of trust even in this room and not just in the newspapers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1046	For the Workers' Party, it's important, as I said in my introduction, that we now realize the Centre at Fornebu. It's important that we get the actor who might, together with the state, develop the center that we've said over many laps that we want there. I've understood through what's in the papers lately, that far into the government, there's a big deal that SIVA should have a role in this. I referred to Per N. Hagen, former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Local Affairs. At a time when Enoch was already the Council of State, Per N had. Hagen, also a member of the board of SIVA, agreed to negotiate an agreement with the stakeholders. SIVA had made contact with both the stakeholders involved, but it was only with IT Fornebu Technoport that they had come up with an intention agreement. Through the information here, through what's in the proposition and what's stated in the media, I think there's no big problem between us and the government party that SIVA should have an active role. So, depending on that, I think it's quite okay that we turn this proposal into a transmission proposal. When it relates to the relationship between the Storting and the Government, I commented on it in my previous answer. Here's a question of whether the Storing should not use the right it has to express a clear will and have a secret on how things should be organized. Then one can, of course, in all matters discuss how detailed and how far one should go. In fact, we meant that II, as stated in our proposal for a decision, also gave the government a room for action, but we see that it was interpreted as leading it from Sponheim to Enoxen. We haven't said anything about which department is going to handle this, we pointed out that SIVA should have the active role in this. If there's going to be a discussion about that, I think it's very good that we're making the proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1055	It is positive that the Workers' Party has confidence that the Government will do what the Government has said it will do, and will follow the timetable that the Government has said it will follow – it is great. It is also great that the representative Gabrielsen pressed so hard to obtain the trust statements that I think it is good to hear in this room and in this case. Then the Workers' Party is concerned that it must not hang again that they are in favour of some kind of subsidisation of Peace. Olsen. I think it's going to be hard to get rid of that impression, because there's been reason to say it so often. Now this company is much wider, it's with many more stakeholders than Fred. Olsen, but to be sure to get rid of this impression, I think it is important that the Workers' Party is offensive to show that it will support other IT centres and other educational services around the country, which absolutely need to be strengthened if we are to avoid centralisation as a result of this. Then there is also a question about how much money will go to Fornebu. First of all, it's 260 million. kr, in which case the State will receive a minimum win share of 33,4 pst. in the vision company and a little more in the property company. But then there's going to be an issue of 300 million. SEK in 2007 and of SEK 1150 million. kr at a later date, when the area is to be increased and if the country is to follow up and retain its holding, there will be a lot of money. When Rudihagen expressed himself as he did, and raised doubts as to whether the state should join in, I have to ask: Is it important for the Workers' Party that we retain a negative control in this company, or is it only intended as a birth aid that the state should be involved, possibly in order to get the right stakeholders in?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1062	To subsidise Fred. Olsen: I wonder why it is at all called Fred. The oil that is left in this context. IT Fornebu Technoport, which we now recommend as co-operation partners for the state, actually has Telenor as the absolute biggest stakeholder within its company – our most distinguished and most competent IT company in this country. When you look at how other countries take care of and stimulate their large telecommunications companies, it's a little strange that Norway won't build such a center around the competence that lies in Telenor. I did good in my post because it's not a kind of subsidisation. There's a question of an investment by the state. Obviously, as I said, when we sell these properties, we can put it into many other good purposes around the different regions. But we have more than enough money. The problem is that we can't just spend money on fear of overheating the economy, so our task is to use the economic freedom we now have to spend money on something that will create new growth, new business development. That's why I think it's absolutely right that the state participates in Fornebu, whether it should now be 260 million. SEK or 425 million. kr. But the Storting has always said that what we're going to go in there is the value of the state's property, because we have these properties out on Fornebu. We haven't said – as I said in my post – that we should be involved in any form of capital expansion in the future in time for us to keep the negative ownership structure. Our starting point is, as we have said before, that the amount that the Storting has put up as a roof over this should be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1071	You can do nothing but congratulate Fred today. Olsen and his companions have actually succeeded in introducing an exclusive housing scheme for the country's richest men and women. It is quite remarkable in itself that this is what will result from the treatment of the Storting. What I was concerned about in Rudihagen's posts is that today you don't dare go all the way out, but submit a proposal for SIVA to the Government. But both, sir. Hedstrom and Mr. In his articles, Rudihagen says the following: We have not changed our vision. So they haven't changed their view that it's SIVA that will be responsible for the development of the so-called vision of the state. At the same time, you say that you don't dare put it here in the hall. So what does that mean? It can only mean that you want a subscription to humiliate the government once again, that the matter is sent back to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and then Sponheim will sit and fool around with it and then come back to Stortinget. Here we go, sir. Hedstrom and Mr. Rudihagen once again says, "That's not what we meant." We've always thought that SIVA should take care of the state's interests. This isn't logic! What was it that SIVA was supposed to do? The vision of the so-called knowledge centre should initially also have a piece of education, not just a piece of business policy. On a number of occasions, the size has determined that the University Act will apply here, where it will be the universities and universities that will govern the knowledge. Where has it been in today's setting? It is not in one word that this actually has meaning for Norwegian education! On the contrary, there is talk of incubator, and there is talk of synergy – all sorts of fine words – but not of what is actually the reality. The whole Norwegian education system is set on the sidelines by the fact that SIVA, an institution that operates commercial parks, will manage what may be the most important part of the future Norwegian education system. So there's nothing else to do but congratulate Fred. Olsen and his buddies, but at the same time there is very good reason to ask Mr. Rudihagen: Does he really mean that SIVA should manage that business in the future? Or is it just because he's too cowardly that he doesn't dare to promote that proposal today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1085	The claim that we put things in jail for Fred. Olsen, won't be more correct even if Djupedal repeats it once more. I don't want to comment on this any more. I've been trying to say how I view exactly the country's involvement in that way. But this case concerns the choice of the actor to be the State's partner. Both of these actors have seen in their projects how they will cooperate with educational institutions, with research, etc., because there has been a clear commitment from the Stortinge that what is to be done with education and research at Fornebu must be carried out on their own premises by the existing educational institutions. There are two of these options, so in our setting we don't have the line under this one again. This has been done so many times before. So it's the role of SIVA and the question of the cases shall return to the Storting. I sincerely hope that things will not come back to Stortinget, that we now have time and effort to realize the plans, where we have now come down to a very good level of detail. When I say that SIVA should have an active role, it's actually in line with what the government itself says in the proposition. After the speaker of the government party said, as I referred to earlier, I can't believe that it would be necessary to create another conflict of this kind.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1096	IT Fornebu Technoport's concept of about 605 dekar contains a large part of the dwelling that, in my opinion and that of the Government, is not a prerequisite for a professionally good centre, but which on the contrary can lead to the focus being removed from the main idea of the IT and knowledge centre and focuses attention on purely commercial interests. State involvement in research and innovation elements in an IT centre is not uncommonly different places in the world. However, a central element of the structure of IT fornebu Technoport, and what the majority advocates, is that the state should also be part of a very extensive and highly ordinary housing structure on the landlocked area of Norway. Can the representative Rudihagen refer to some other IT centres, e.g. in the Nordic region, where government authorities have also undertaken to operate extensive ordinary housing with private investors? Is it not also true that there is not a single IT professional argument that there is any sense in this, but that it has been done to meet private investors?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1103	Firstly, there are two alternatives in size — the one 316 covers and the other 605 grosss, or the other 505 nets. In both of these, there are some housing options. Interested people think housing is necessary, they're just disputing about how many people are needed. IT Fornebu Technoport has suggested that rentals, student housing of 50 m2 and a few larger ones of 100 m2 must be abundant. This is likely to be a somewhat pressured area with expensive prices. If an international actor is to be brought in for short or longer periods of time — both on the lecture page, on the student page and on the business page — there is a need for housing. The number of cases will largely depend on the final regulatory plan, for which the municipality of Bærum has a responsibility. In case of IT Fornebu Technoport, the difference between 316 dekar and 605 dekar must be achieved. It's not the state that's going to go in and buy that mess. Per. Today, it is largely Oslo municipality's ownership, and it must be the interested person himself who is going to negotiate to take over it. It is regulated for both nutritional and housing purposes, and in our view, inclusion of that area will strengthen the overall concept and make it even more attractive internationally. In this way, I thought it was quite right that housing was part of the overall concept of Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1110	So the chord change is over. The President will draw attention to the fact that the called alternate of the Rogaland County, Bent Höie, has now taken its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1118	A useful and important clarification was provided by the case-speaker when it came to the proposal for Decision II of the majority. It has been made quite clear from the government party that there must be respect for the government itself having the right to have the state's company and instruments at the disposal of the government. The design of the proposal for Decision II could raise doubts as to whether such respect and trust were in place. With the conversion of II to a transmission proposal, we have a useful clarification. It is now up to the Government itself to evaluate and decide how SIVA should be included as an instrument in the concept for which the multiples are valid. As a consequence, the Centre Party draws point 2 of its proposal – it does not need to be sent to the Government. So I'm going to say that there's actually a lot of minority and the multiples are some about this case. Some of us say that a major challenge in industrial policy is to promote the growth of new business. We need innovation to have sufficient jobs and value creation to build the welfare community in the future. We know that the companies that are going to give us income in 20 years, to a large extent, are still not established. No one disagrees that an IT centre at Fornebu can be a positive tool, because we need innovation and new technology to create productivity growth when older waves reach us by weight. Let's say that the possibilities are legio. For Norway too, the situation is good. The plural has a black-stained situation for Norway quite roughly in its comments and speaks. We don't live as if the world ends at Svinesund. It's a reality that the World Times index ranked Norway fourth in the world when it was about information economy. The IT industry is marketable at all levels with the petroleum sector, and the centre administration has just made it easier to start and operate its own business. It is the enterprise policy premises of an IT and knowledge centre in Fornebu that have been the most important premise of the Government's choice of interested parties. If we are to be closed in Fornebu, and Norway is to be shut down in global competition, we must get the best out of our R & D environment, in combination with our business. The Government will facilitate the provision of a comprehensive incubator offering, facilitating access to risk capital and strengthening contacts between small and large enterprises by newly established knowledge enterprises in the field of information and communication technologies. There are places on Earth where this happens and it is successful. This creates a framework that makes innovation speed up. Why has the government chosen Network Fornebu? This is because the Fornebu network has a lot of strengths, and it is because of very weak aspects of the competitor. State's going in at 260 million. kr in an IT centre at Fornebu. Because the visions are little concrete, it is important that the State as the responsible owner has a lasting impact on its policy body. It is important for social interests, for example: the regional dimension shall be focused and such impact shall be excluded from the Fornebu Network. Or it's amazing that the Progress Party is in favour of a company where issues are already planned and will mean big new counting for the state. Even more strange is the image when the majority selects the company that has a negative present value of more than 100 million. kr if the vision is taken out completely. The government's choice of company is based on the fact that Network Fornebu has a positive present value, and that it is therefore economically the most clearly sure choice. Furthermore, they add significantly more to R & D than to IT Fornebu Technoport. The State shall participate in the construction of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. It's very clear that what counts as a success factor is the area of incubator and industry, as well as R & D. The Christian People's Party will also point out that it is Network Fornebu that within the recommended area of 316 covers the most area for business, and that is the main purpose of the entire IT centre. My time has now expired, so I just want to end by saying that there is little doubt that Network Fornebu is the best provider in a competition that has been open and fair from the Government's side. I'm addressing the minority proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, minus point 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1144	Anita Apelthun's seal has taken up the proposal to which she referred, minus point 2. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1149	The majority, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, believe that it is important that an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu is large and strong enough to be attractive enough to attract foreign researchers and businesses and to counteract the fact that Norwegian top competence disappears from the country. The Christian People's Party and the representative Anita Apelthun Seele's starting point was that the state would sell its land at Fornebu after the airport was closed. They haven't exactly been glowing champions to establish an IT and knowledge center cork here or there. Now, however, a Christian People's Party, an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, is only small enough. The representative Anita Apelthun Seele has expressed in previous lines that she hopes it will be a long time until we get a new worker party government, and that is not so unnatural from her point of view. But my question to the representative Apelthun Seele is about her thinking that the pace of current government when it comes to regional and national investment in the field of IT is consistent with the pace of development of Norwegian IT industry. Does the representative Anita Apelthun Seele complain that IT companies that are developed with a background in Norwegian knowledge are bought up by foreign actors and are thus lost to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1160	The representative Rita Tveiten says we want to go in for something just a little bit. Now, the difference between IT Fornebu Technoport, for which the majority is in favour, and Network Fornebu, for which I and the minority are in favour, is largely housing. It is that within the area that the Spjøtvoll selection has said is necessary to build an efficient IT centre on Fornebu, Network Fornebu is the most interested person who has seen the most for nutritional purposes and for the purposes that otherwise are most essential for getting the vision. Even so, housing is going to be on Fornebu, and it should be totally unnecessary, as we see it, for the state to involve itself in housing for those with the absolute highest wage level here in the country. Social housing construction may be necessary for the public, but it's not about Fornebu. So I don't stop wondering about the Workers' Party's disposals in this area. Norway as a nation actually comes out well. It's been a lot of black measurement when it comes to IT developments in Norway, which I was in my post, but we're now in fourth place in the world, and it's not so bad for a small country on the outskirts of Europe. With the investment that one has in advertising, and the ability to run its own business in Norway that one has with the current government, I think we are going to go bright times with regard to industry – also for the IT industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1167	To the representative of Apelthun Seele: in this debate it is very important that we separate the cards. As far as the State area of Fornebu is concerned, this must be regulated according to municipal sub-level 2 and there must be a mixture of housing and industry. It has to be very clear. Dwellings to be built on the land of the state are only student dwellings and some passing homes. I'm starting to wonder if the Christian People's Party will not respect municipal autonomy. I actually thought that they kept their tab high in that matter. So to this with the reason for choosing Network Fornebu. You want strong government control and control. It probably sounds good in the ears of the Christian People's Party. Statsrådet Navøy has always followed up this with that we must have strong government control and control in the policy-making bodies, but nevertheless I do not get this to be linked. The State shall have at the base of 50 pst. of the shares in Network Fornebu, but this company should in turn only have approx. 10 pst. of the shares of the two companies involved in incubator, research and development activities. How, then, can the representative Apelthun Seele describe this as a model that gives good government control – I am thinking of the companies that are going to conduct research, development and incubator activities? How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1180	Of course, the Christian People's Party and the Center respect the municipal self-government. And that's precisely because we're so sure that there'll be housing on Fornebu, same thing. But why should the state go into a company that's just about to build a lot of housing? When it comes to the business part of the projects, there is no big difference on Network Fornebu’s approximately 300 jobs and IT Fornebu Technoport’s 605 jobs. That's why we think in this context that small is good. It is large enough to get what is important, e.g. business development in the ICT sector in Norway and governance with policy-making agencies. When it concerns Network Fornebu, we know what we have and what we get, because here the size is given, and we know that we have an effect; it's negotiated already. When it comes to I.T.Fornebu Technoport, this will change, and we'll have to bring in a lot of capital to keep up with what we've negotiated up to. Obviously, we don't have multiples, and basically, I'm very happy that we don't have multiples when it comes to any of these areas. But we have a decisive impact with the percentage that we have in the Fornebu Network, and what we have in the long term in IT Fornebu, nobody knows.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1187	The opinion of the Economic and Social Committee was adopted on 2 March. Today, we write on 7 March, and neither the rapporteur nor the main spokesman of the Labour Party remembers why they put forward the proposal they made in the committee position, at least they are unable to give a comprehensible explanation to others as to why they put it. Now I understood the representative Apelthun Seele so that on behalf of the government parties she found reason to withdraw paragraph 2 of their proposal, on the grounds that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party want to transform the proposal for Decision II in the vote on a transmission proposal. Then it remains to be confirmed that it is really meant to have the same reality as the wording of the government parties, and that it is not intended to want to come back for the tenth time if the government does not follow the instructions given by the majority – the Labour Party and the Advance Party –. It would be useful if during this debate it was clarified by the majority whether it is so to understand that it is meant as a dictatorship. My question to the representative Apelthun Seele is: When it turns out that the majority is as easily frightened as they are, that there is no more to it than that some councillors suggest the possibility that you might say here, but no longer, they fall to the feet – then the representative Apelthun Seele regrets that you didn't put your foot down the last time when it really meant it? At that time, it could have been made clear that the economic and high-tech future of Norway depends on the use of aerodrome areas at Fornebu, because it is and becomes a coercion. The unfortunate thing is that the government has let itself impose this thought and press not to stand at its original position, which the Right promotes in this setting. Isn't there any reason to undo on arrears?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1197	What's done is done. Undoing or non- undoing will not affect anything. What's absolutely certain is that it's the government that might have put its foot down. I haven't done it, not now, and not the last time it was up. What this government and the minority in the committee do is take note of what a large majority will do, what a large majority of people say. We are interested in the growth and growth of business at Fornebu, that we will have an IT business at Fornebu that will benefit the whole country, and the government wants to be part of a company formation – and I should like to think that it was the choice here today – that will allow us to influence the policy-making bodies. Point 2 of our proposal, which we are withdrawing, was a counter-proposal to the proposal that the multiple has now drawn, and I have to say that I'm happy that they have subtracted it. What would have happened in the past if we had acted differently, no one knows.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1206	I think that parts of Mrs. Apelthun's line were interesting, because she says the following: what's done is done, you can't undo what's done, and we've taken things to heart. It's in many ways a good description of the whole central government project. Now I'm not going to draw it that far in this round, but the point is this: The government has not enthusiastically said that you want IT fornebu in some variant. The idea was based on a mountain, and some cleverness in the Workers' Party or in the Advance Party has with Fred. Olsen and his friends then made it clear to see the idea that this had something to do with it, and then the Storting has acted. But the center parties, including the government of course, have never actively done anything to stop this, so they've let themselves drift on a mountain in a direction that you see the result of here today. And today's great victory of the central government is that the majority does not promote a proposal on SIVA. But otherwise, the setting is just as it is, and it might be interesting to hear with Mrs. Apelthun's seal the following: Does she feel calm about the fact that this matter does not come back to the Stortinget yet? The only thing that has been done here by the majority is that it has been said that the proposal is not being promoted in this round. The Centre then chooses not to present its proposal. But of course, the same comrades are quite free to say in the next round that they are not satisfied with Mr. Sponheim, that they had never thought it would be organized this way, and then the matter had to go back to Stortinget. So you get a subscription to a total humiliation another round – if the government sits so long. So what might have been interesting was if today, in the light of the postwar clock, you could say that yes, we should have put our foot down at some point, this project we really don't want, the plot on Fornebu, we should have used for something that's better than what we're getting today. The question is then short: Does Mrs. Apelthun sell that we're done with the case in the main hall today, and will she do what she can for it not coming back, or does she have a little nagging fear, as some of us have, that we're not finished in this round?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1213	Enthusiasm and enthusiasm – what the center government has clearly stated is that we want research parks, we want business parks, we want IT development, and we want to welcome the new economy. What surprises me is that it has been so much awkward here as we have a case of e-commerce for treatment, where the Storting will hopefully be presented with an attitude that this Government can set itself at 100 pst. back – I hope so. If the plural will return to Stortinget? Fortunately, we do not know anything about tomorrow, but nine times I think I am enough. What should not have been said in this matter now, it must be found on millimeter paper. I can't understand what another person should say about this matter that has not already been said. I hope that one now will give the government peace to work with IT-sacks, so that one can get results on Fornebu as well as in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1220	Unlike Djupedal, I would like to turn to the representative Apeltun Säle, and not to Mrs Apelthun Säle. I am pleased that the representative Apelthun Seele is louder and now says that we all want IT activity at Fornebu, for the benefit of the whole country. See it – then there is actually hope in hanging strings, and the representative Apelthun Seele is beginning to agree with the plurality in contrast to what one might get the impression earlier. I am also pleased that we are now hearing that there is enough nine times the treatment in the Storting of this case, and I would like to ask that we have to get a new heading, namely ‘direction and pace’. On the other hand, the representative Apelthun Seele did not entirely address my question in a previous round of replies, where I asked her if she thought that the pace at which today's government has set up when it comes to regional and national investment in the field of IT is in line with the pace of development of Norwegian IT industry. It is disturbing that Norwegian companies, based on Norwegian knowledge, are being bought out. This suggests that we have a problem, and it must be in the whole of Stortinget's interest to stop this – and that an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu of international dimensions and qualities is what we're about to do. I want the representative Apelthun to see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1233	It's nice that Rita Tveiten's representative is happy. The reason we've been in favour of Network Fornebu is that it's economically best thought out, it's organisationally best thought out, and it's best on research and development. To get to the second question: if we are to speed up IT development both in traditional business and in new industries around the country, we need to invest in research and development. Then we need the research and development institutions we have, and we need to build them up further. Now it was said by the case spokesman that a year is seven IT years. The tempo is big. Something that also made us sign up for the Fornebu Network was that they are betting on e-commerce in a way that is necessary – then Norway could have been the first. We may not achieve that if the plurality is still on the table, but we want to get a research and development that allows us to keep up with developments in the world and maybe get a head start in a particular area. Then electronic commerce is a possibility, and of course we must also follow up in all other areas. Everybody jump in this area, and we run along. We need all that commitment that might have existed. Then we must bet on the self-employed, on the founders of Norway. We have a lot of them, and we have to get them to develop their ideas for business, raise money and create new jobs, create new businesses and reinvigorate Norway. This is the Government's policy, and so it's important that we have the Government sitting there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1240	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1243	The rapporteur initially said that it was the ninth time we dealt with this matter, and that is certainly true. Some have also incorrectly said that this is probably the last time. I have very little faith in that, at least I think the control committee will eventually be able to take an interest in it. But one thought I have made after listening to this matter, and not least in relation to what the matter really applies, is that I am happy that the Norwegian business community is so little dependent on what is going on in this room. In the whole process, after the closure of Fornebu as an aerodrome, the right has been engaged in real competition for the very attractive plots and areas that exist out there. Initially, there was also a majority of parties here in this Chamber who advocated free competition for these areas of Fornebu. However, the decline, not to say the maturity, has been great. At first, the Progress Party made a complete turnaround, and the sworn followers of a controlled process were going to end up with what is today the setting, namely an award to Fred. The Olsen Group. Secondly, the Government was pressuring the Workers' Party and the Advance Party for an equivalent 180 degree turnaround operation. What a gain the government has had from the indulgence in this case, it is difficult to understand, not least after hearing this debate. But from the time the government got over it and even left its proposed principle of free competition on the land of Fornebu, Sponheim has waged a struggle for serious alternatives. The Government has so far achieved this. But I suppose we all know which way it was, for the foremost armsmen of peace. The Olsen Group is not exactly people who give up like that without going on. The fact that the majority in the cast goes even further in the instruction and overrun of the Government hardly comes as a big surprise, and that they then turn this into a transmission proposal, has, as far as I have understood the foremost weapons donors from the majority, not changed any reality. However, the government lost the case last year when it accepted that the state would spend several hundred million kroner on the Fornebu project. That's when Bondevik should have put his foot down. As far as I could understand Apelthun's seal – between the lines – she regretted that this had not happened. That omission is what the government is strangling with today, and the one I suppose they're going to wrestle with whatever outcome of the case in this room, because it's ultimately relatively uninteresting which of the two groupings is assigned to do this together with the SIVA. In the setting we are discussing today, the Right View also shows how the sale of the Fornebu areas should take place. We mean the same thing today as we meant last year when we treated St.meld. No 13 for 1998-99, where the Government in the Communication outlined the solution for this. It was a three-part solution that was proposed. The point of view we had at the time, and that was the government's primary proposal, we still have. The proposal consists, as I said, of three points. One was that we were going to set aside 8 000 m2 for educational and research purposes in the Terminal Building, and that was after the input from the educational institutions themselves. The 200 dean that the state owns out there, which is regulated for commercial purposes, we wanted to sell – and we still want to sell – with general IT feeds, and then for maximum bidders. Finally, we want to establish an incubator activity in a similar way as the state has done elsewhere in the country. What was the government's view last year, which is still our view, is that the companies that are willing to pay the highest price for the plots, probably also have the best projects and will realize them. The right has not wanted to go into equity with several hundred million dollars to realize a project that private capital can do for itself. On the other hand, the majority have been concerned with government governance and state choice of business areas to be addressed by a partly state-owned IT centre. Now, when you see that there are a couple of board members appointed by the SIVA who are going to realize the state vision of this, I can only go to the smiling band. For the majority of the population, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, there is now no confidence in the Government and the State Council responsible for implementing this case. So this majority is now forcing the Government to implement a project in which it initially disagreed, and to implement it by an actor who, according to the proposition, is not confident in all the opinions that have come from the responsible state councils. So you want to take the project out of your hands at the government government's plan to do it. If the present attitude is adopted as it exists, it will put our entire political system to a serious test. But now it's not happening. The most sensitive of these points was converted into transmission proposals, but without any change in reality. Ever since the proceedings were taken over by Hedstrøm and Opseth, there was no doubt about who would become the state's partner at Fornebu. At the previous round here in Stortinget, I suggested that the bidding round you entered, in fact, was only a rail manoeuvre. As I see the round we've put behind us now, I can't find a more comprehensive word than that there's been a well-planned trick game. The staying capacity and the courage that have shaped the majority in this case have almost crossed over in the position. When you look in the position that the majority has found 15 extra seats on Fornebu that they hadn't thought about before, and have to put such leads in order to get it, there's no stop in details. The well-known majority now decides that SIVA should do this job, and then not piece by piece, but completely, and even the part that goes on education, SIVA should handle, as far as I know. But the director of Kjelstad, who has had a very high cigarette lead in the case, has at least been so humble that when it comes to the education bit, he says, "It may not be our strongest side, but we'll find solutions for that." Here it is added that the road becomes as one goes – at least it is quite clear. Otherwise, it is completely incomprehensible to me that the government can accept a SIVA that operates that way. Whether it's behind the government's back, or not back, depends a little on the width of this back, because when I read the views of the different councils on this, and read it over time, I'm a little in doubt about how much they knew, and how much they should have known, and there's no doubt there's a connection between what they knew, and what they should have known. But in this case, SIVA is actually going to be a siding and a handy lightning conductor for the Government. In reality, it is relatively uninteresting in the whole whether the right or left arm of the Government is to implement this. That's the fact that the government accepts that the state is committed to several hundred million dollars on Fornebu, and so that wallpaper was discounted last year. However, it is the responsibility today to implement the majority of the size that determines the choice of the actor. And the description that's in the government's proposition is not to be mistaken -- it's doubtful what the content is in this. But at the end of the article I think it is timely to ask a few questions. With regard to the proposal today turned into a transmission proposal, the representatives of the majority of the population say that it does not change any reality, while the main spokesman of the main government party, Apelthun Säle – I will not use the name Mrs Apelthun Säle – says on the other hand that the government can now organise this ownership as it pleases. Both of these things can't be right. Either it's the way the government can organize this as they like, or it's the way the big crowd has said, that nothing has changed. You've just become a little anxious about the possibility of a cabinet question and the humiliation it would be to turn it around. My question to both parties is: Does the government see it as being able to organize ownership as it pleases, and does the majority feel that there is a right they have, or do they have to deal with this? And does Sponheim live with the risk that the majority of people who haven't shaded anything in this case will be able to activate their PCs and spew out what is necessary to achieve their declared will? Finally, on behalf of the Right, I would like to promote the excellent proposal put forward in the vote, which was also the Government's position last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1271	Ansgar Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1276	I'll first try to answer the representative Gabrielsen. We have converted the vote on the proposal for Decision II into a transmission proposal. It's still there as a proposal, but it gives the government the space for action in that it's a transmission proposal. I said in my introduction that I actually thought there was a room for action within the proposed decision. It said that we wanted SIVA to ‘beware of the interests of the State’. And then it was up to the government to organize this within the frame. But the big crowd has the same vision, of course, as we had before. In many ways, the representative Gabrielsen has gone very high on the track and used strong words in this matter. We've been hearing about scandals, subsidizing billions of dollars and so, with the background in it, it was as far as a sober tone the representative Gabrielsen had in his post today. Gabrielsen was the one who went hard on the present Minister of Industry at an early stage of this process. But after that, Gabrielsen actually has our business minister's most faithful defender, yes he has actually agreed more with Sponheim than Sponheim and the government itself have had. Right is the only one that stands for the original proposal of the Government – that's exactly what Gabrielsen is right about. But then Gabrielsen refers to business and is in many ways happy that they're not here. It's possible that some of them are here. Right likes to appear as a business party, but haven't they taken in the face of the new economy? Don't they see that the state needs to have an active role in engaging in business development, perhaps in a slightly different way than before, sometimes on the owner's side, sometimes by facilitating new business development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1289	That the representative Gabrielsen took the Minister of Industry hard at the beginning of this period I think was very necessary, because otherwise maybe many things would have been even worse than it has been. On the other hand, even a Minister of Industry needs armsmen in Stortinget. And when he has sensible things on the agenda, there is no reason for one not to defend these things. So the interesting question that I asked at the end of my post, and that Rudihagen raises and says that in a transmission proposal, it is a «action room». That is a completely uninteresting word in this regard. The question concerns the content – if it is just the format of the paper that is the action space. I have a nagging suspicion that that space of action is very narrow – very narrow. All the experience in this case shows at least that it has been the case up to now. And in terms of words like scandals and non-candals, I have to say that I can't see it any other way than that Rudihagen must have a very high threshold for what is scandalous in a political context. If it's not that this has been things and are things that the political system and the Storting should be besides, it has to be because you're both blind and deaf. With regard to the good words Rudihagen gives to the Right as a party of business, I must give him quite right in it – in contrast to his own party. And then to the state's own role in this. The fact that the ICT industry, with a turnover of DKK 160-180 billion before Rudihagen and Hedstrøm have woken up, must have an active state commitment to SIVA to point out a couple of government representatives who are to sit on a board somewhere with Fred.Olsen-Gutta out on Fornebu, and that it is to lead us into the new era of time, is not just disc bombs, but one shoots in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1302	The representative Gabrielsen has been on behalf of the Right for a long time on the war path of the media on the position of the majority in the Fornebu case. I agree with Torstein Rudihagen when he picks up that bit, because Gabrielsen has been high on the track. And I can only mention that in the evening post on 10 February last, there were claims that a political scandal was about to happen, and that you needed to pick out a shipowner and assign him a digger empty. This is followed up in several cases. The fatherland friend of 24 September last year reads as follows: ‘... the process which has led to the commitment of billions by the Workers' Party and the Advance Party.’ The reality is that IT Fornebu Technoport, which will be awarded today, within eight weeks, under the agreement, will go in with 780 million. kr in IT Fornebu Eiendom. State goes in with 260 million. kr based on a market tariff under the EEA Regulation. There is no subsidy element. The government has made financial calculations for both competitors and found that there is marginal economy and high risk in both alternatives. None of the projects have satisfactory profitability," says the Government. Will the representative Gabrielsen then withdraw his allegations of political scandals and that the majority should have pledged billions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1322	Let me say first of all, what I've said, it says, and it says it. That Gabrielsen's been on the war path? I have a nagging feeling that the Knudsen should have liked to have been on that campaign. I have a nagging feeling that a not insignificant majority in the Party of Advancement would want them to be able to support Gabrielsen. This they've joined, they've been dragged into, I don't think the spinal reflex is what has triggered the engagement. However, I think that the representatives of the Progress Party in the rounds we have had have done an excellent job here from the pulpit. But I have a little bit of difficulty in one way to accept that it's their innermost that comes out. For their innermost respect to SIVA, as far as food exposure is concerned, documents are as thick as they are from here to the moon. The last time the SIVA case was being dealt with in this Chamber, the members of the Progress Party said – and they traditionally lay down themselves in these matters completely to the extreme, far to the right of the Right, if one can say so – the following: «The members of the Committee of the Progress Party, Torbjørn Andersen and Lodve Solholm, believe that it is not a State task to engage in business. State investment, ownership and operation of industrial buildings or industrial parks must therefore be regarded as activities outside the scope of responsibility and responsibility of the State.» This has been the policy of the Progress Party, read out and adopted for 25 years without exception, except in the one case we are dealing with today. As far as this campaign and this path of war are concerned, everyone knows that to the extent that the will of the individual representatives of the Great Britain was to be expressed in this Chamber, the decision would have been different from what is being pushed on the Government today. It is with great boldness that I stand, and it is with great boldness that I put two lines under what I have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1334	I must admit that the right-wing representative's posts provoked me a bit. I have largely shared my view with the Right in this matter, but do the Right and the representative Gabrielsen live in the past? It's multiple – and it's been several times for a long time – for an IT center at Fornebu. This should and must be taken into account by a government. Centres will do whatever is necessary to maintain the district dimension in order to invest in research and development in order to ensure the effectiveness of the incubator business. The government has set up two companies, and we're not going to undo it. Network Fornebu is clearly better than IT Fornebu Technoport, and should have been selected. But what has Right done? Protested? That's what you can do from a relatively powerless position. But what will Right do to have an impact on today's Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1341	Gabrielsen had provoked Soul – yes, it might be. But when she says in her next breath that she largely agrees with Gabrielsen, it's very far to go to the pulpit, and it wouldn't surprise me if in another context she would be willing to go even further in terms of sharing her consensus. What is the fact is that the right in the position we are discussing today has laid down a position that we have had all along, which is consistent with what her own government meant last year. So she says that there's been a majority for a long time. Yes, unfortunately it does. Why is that? Well, because you did a failure sin on the part of the Government by not putting your foot down. Had you done it last year, the construction had been going on out there, you had sold the land. People are waiting on the stock exchange to invest money in this industry, there is no shortage of capital, there is no shortage of projects, there is no shortage of companies. However, there has been a lack of direction from the Government in relation to this matter, and you have let yourself be driven by weather and wind. From the powerless position of the Right? Yes, the only rewarding thing in life is not to be allowed to vote with the majority at all times. There are other values in life than aligning with a majority that you use a lot of energy to outstrip, to bend for the next time. The right has another agenda, and the right is going to continue that agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1352	Yes, the Right has its own agenda and shouts that the Government does not have the Stortingens trust – but was alone about it. The many times they have cried out that now is the crisis, for this cannot be tolerated by the Government in this matter, so it has gone well. In the meantime, the project has evolved from low-content headlines to good projects with solid participants. It's the government's strategy that has led to it. Right-wing criticises the Government for the most part, not to add up to renewing business policy enough. We have provided communications: on research, on trade, on travel, on agriculture, on forestry, on many on IT, on ownership, on fisheries, on mineral law. There has been no lack of opportunity to change that policy, but the Right has not been given a majority, quite simply. I agree that policy according to business needs is changing in the right direction and fast enough. The Industry Committee was on its way to South Africa just to see what happened after people protested against the move against Fornebu when Ericsson was about to move. And one of the things that happened then was that the public came in and got an engineering education, and then the private themselves have made investments to keep the knowledge. The reason why the Center Party is so strong to get state involvement on Fornebu is to make sure that it does so both on Fornebu and outside Fornebu. Will this right here contribute to further public investment in the new industries in order to prevent them from determining with the most money where the jobs and competences are located?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1363	I cannot share the introduction and premise for Lund's reply, because I cannot see that I or anyone from the Right has stated that the Government does not have the Right Trust in this matter. Then he had an outline of some current issues, which are essentially in the committee, and the review melody was like that the Right should be without influence. Then I have to say that he met a little poorly in relation to the order he dealt with these matters. In order to take the mineral law, it is relatively obvious that the government is almost parked in this case, and in terms of e-commerce and agricultural notification, I believe, Mr. Lund will wait until we're done dealing with this before he brings any final verdict. But I want to repeat that our position in these matters is going to be Right-wing that we don't need to necessarily end up in the majority if we see it going in the wrong direction. So to the question, will the Right contribute to the creation of IT workplaces in the districts? Yes, we have an instrument to deal with this, and I can see nothing but that the Right in its conduct has contributed to that, and we will continue to do so. The last time the municipal committee dealt with SIVA, so the right-hand position was different from the Progress Party. That is why I say to the extent that the SIVA agreement that has been concluded, the intention agreement, in isolation, has a lot of reason in itself; it frees capital that can be used for reinvestment elsewhere. It should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1376	Sir. Gabrielsen said in an earlier reply that it is not the only gratifying thing to always vote with the majority. I can sign it so far, so if he wants to hear a little bit more about it, he just has to talk to me afterwards. We have a lot of experience in that way. What's interesting is that this project is being run against the advice and wishes of all the colleges. So there are no universities or colleges in Norway that have wanted IT-Fornebu in some form or other, none of the professional organisations of the different IT industries have wanted this, there are no companies, except Telenor, who have actively said that IT-Fornebu is a good idea. It is in many ways a surrealistic situation, that one is about to realize a so-called vision of something without there actually being strong actors – other than a bunch of shipowners, who have stood behind and pushed. It is this which is quite paradoxical, and I actually have to give the Right Honour, because the Right has been the only party that has consistently had an attitude to this right from the start. The right has thought that this would be a commercial project, they would like to add it to the terminal building at Fornebu, and then the market got the rest sorted out. It's kind of been a neat, neat and predictable right-hand position. SV has always warned about the project, and unfortunately we will get quite right afterwards, that this is not going to be a particular growth for the IT industry. But what I could well imagine challenging Gabrielsen, because in many respects we have approached the same criticism of the chef's emblem in this project, is, if Gabrielsen, according to Right's wishes, were free to establish the kind of institution that might now be established in the Terminal Building, would he have put it on Fornebu? Wouldn't he have thought that the kind of enterprise, or network, which this is supposed to be from the Right should never have been at Fornebu, but in the vicinity of a university or a completely different place in the country because centralizing such a decentralised technology on such an attractive land is simply discarded? You could add it to the Toten or anywhere, at least somewhere else than in the central East.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1387	Djupedal is right in saying that it is neither a popular requirement nor a requirement in the environment dealing with ICT, that it should be established there, as it is added here, with a few hundred million in initial capital from the state. The fact that shipowners are involved in this, I think maybe some of it's better in the whole -- that at least the alliance partners that are elected to the seventh and last, are people who are used to taking risks and who have done it before, so I don't see it as the big problem. When it comes to the cooking lemon bite, I don't want to take it today. So what we should do at Fornebu, which ideally should be located there, is that the educational institutions themselves, the universities and the colleges, have pointed out that there is a need for 8 000 m2 of symbiosis between the business community that establishes at Fornebu and the educational institutions. [[Laughter]] It is not an unnatural and illogical location, given that Telenor establishes itself as massive as they do, and that it must be assumed that if we had sold the plots as we would, there would have been further large IT establishments. And then it's natural that the universities and colleges place the amount of education they're going to have in relation to doctoral students and major students, in the vicinity of that business. So the actual location, the limited 8 000 m2, that we've added up to and that the government made up last year, and that the universities would do, I think to the extent that's okay. I do not think it is a matter to which the regional policy and localisation policy tabs should be raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1396	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1399	From now on, cooperation will be established on the development of the Fornebu project. It's time! The State shall cooperate with the one selected as a private developer. The state’s representative must ensure good cooperation and effective decision-making between the government and the universities, colleges, research parks, business gardens, municipalities, research councils, SND and SIVA – in order to mention some of the public actors. Then cooperation will be established with and between many private actors in Fornebu and elsewhere in Norway and abroad. While contributing to a good development for the Fornebu Centre, the State must ensure that this investment does not harm the IT environment around the country – on the contrary. At least as good and costly assistance for these other environments must be provided by the country, so that the Fornebu initiative does not result in increased centralisation and lack of IT skills in the rest of the country. In order for the state to succeed in being a partner and a controlling owner, we need a situation where the Stortinget sticks to the long lines and to the large amounts, and that the Government and its apparatus take care of everything else. Now that's what it looks like. SIVA will have a central role, as promised by the Government. Temporal plans for what will happen next — signing agreements and starting work — will be followed, as proposed by the Government. The further work on any formation of a company, the Norwegian Regional Innovation, to deal with parts of SIVA's assets, will continue. So for the most part here today: the choice of the private builder and the contracts submitted. Over the last two years, the Fornebu project has evolved from being a headline and an exciting vision to a large project with broad content in industrial development, research and education. At the open hearing, the Committee presented two projects with a sound professional and nutritional basis and owners with the possibility of obtaining the necessary crowns. But the project is far from being developed. I therefore welcome the broad consensus within the Committee that the State should be given decisive and lasting influence in the bodies which decide how this centre should be filled with content. It has been absolutely essential for the Central Party to ensure a high level of government participation. Based on the considerable scepticism of state ownership that is often expressed from certain parties, I am both pleased and surprised by the weight of active state ownership in this matter. I read in the setting that all the games, except the Right, want to make sure exactly that. In the open hearing, private operators have ensured that State interference is sought. The central party fully shares the government's concern that state influence will be much more expensive to defend in the coming years with IT Fornebu Technoport than with the Fornebu Network. This relationship, as well as the impression of lack of transparency about related agreements by IT Fornebu Technoport, is, for our part, a main reason to choose Network Fornebu. We have also stressed the fact that Network Fornebu has stated a fixed price for the pre-work and the company with which they join the company, while the competitor requires valuation according to the same principle as for the Internet bubbles today. The repeated treatments of the Fornebu project will be remembered for the untimely detailed management of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party over such a long time. Since May 1998, the Government has delivered three messages and two propositions. The size has spent eight of these 22 months. Everything has been marked by a lot of haste. But the government has succeeded in getting a good development of the case itself: better content, greater transparency and competition and a significant State influence on the project further. I don't think we've spent too long on this treatment, but it's been too many useless punishments. In my opinion, retail management is a bigger problem for the two parties and for the Storting than for the Government. Such a level of detail management as we have had in the past and as it has been established in the final phase is breaking with the main principles of our management system. The final phase of this case provides an example of the fact that state ownership is not respected by the companies owned by the State. In my opinion, the behaviour of SIVA is critical. In my opinion, the behaviour of SIVA cannot be excused by the fact that other state-owned companies have been forced into forced situations without being punished. DnB has tried it in the last few days, the Kreditkas wanted Swedish owner to get rid of the state, Hydro bought Saga and sold Dyna, perhaps Hydro Seafood could be sold abroad, and Statoil started the debate on ownership of that company. It's time for the state to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1420	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1424	It is right that the representative, Mr Lund, the leader of the committee, says that we have had this matter many times in this Chamber. I think it's a broad deal that we could have done with a few fewer. But the ratio is that the government has little desire to take in the majority that have been in the Storting. Had the government done that, we would first save various parties – whether it be government or big business – for work. One would have got a decision at a long earlier time, which would have led us to get started. There is no particular doubt that this repeated treatment in Stortinget has led to land lying out on Fornebu without being used. Then we're going to hope that we see the final act on which IT and knowledge centers we're going to have at Fornebu. The view of the plural should be clear to the Government, and I have the confidence of the Government, in spite of several struggles, that they will now carry out what the plurality of the Stortinget stands for. I would like to ask the representative Morten Lund, the leader of the committee: does the representative of Lund think that the handling we have had of this matter indicates that the government is sensitive to what the Stortinge decided in different contexts, or does he think that the Government should have listened more to the majority in the Stortinge case before?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1433	I think we have a good government and a responsive government. I brought with me now when I went up, an article from yesterday by Rommetvedt, who wrote about different governments that we have had recently. A responsive government is a government that has its own policy, but of course tries to find out what is possible to implement. This government has achieved much more than what the previous government has done, i.e. ‘per. month", it says. It's going to be a lot of statistics, but I think it's going to be the sentence after this government. There is a minority government that has to be responsive, but that has got through its policies very much. So there has been a lot of attention about what has happened in this particular case, and there has been a lot of wrong attention, which, of course, the Storting and the Government could have been spared. I guess we disagree with who's to blame for that. But at least I believe that it has not been such that it has only remained calm while we have been dealing with these matters. There has been a development in the IT industry. We need time to figure out how universities and our education system are going to make use of this. And we've got a lot of valuable input from business. We've got different constellations. The ones that are now being assigned this is a much broader constellation than what it looked like we were going to be able to do. It wouldn't have been like that if we hadn't spent some time. I think that when we get started and get done what's to be done further, we'll look back at this as, after all, a good process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1442	This matter has gradually become the character of a desert hike. At least it has not been a quick and straightforward matter. I myself came into the matter in connection with the examination by the Church, Education and Research Committee of proposals by the representative of Grete Knudsen for increased investment in education and training in IT. That was the spring of 1998. After this, at least six-seven rounds have been held in the Business Committee and here in the Grand Hall on the matter. The representative Lund was a little bit inside this in his article. It may be tempting to quote the majority comment in the vote as follows: ‘The size has already raised concerns about the pace and progress of the establishment and development of a knowledge centre at Fornebu on several occasions.’ In plain text, this means that if you had made a different progress, you could already be at Fornebu – for the benefit of education, research and business in Norway. Today's case is a choice between two possible alternatives with private operators of a cooperation project between public and private businesses. I would like to commend the government parties on the fact that you are at least ready to make your recommendation. That's more than you could say about the right hand side. However, it should not be surprising that I do not share the conclusion of the government parties. The centre seems to be most concerned that the centre should be as small as possible, that it should be as government governance as possible in the future as well, and that housing should be so few that the education and research section will hardly succeed. On the other hand, the Progress Party is concerned that we should get to a centre that is large enough to succeed in a global market, that we should aim for private business to be significantly engaged without becoming a property speculation object. My specific question to the representative is: does he see any reason why we should be satisfied in this matter with speed and progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1465	As I have said, the process that we have been through has not been of the cleanest, and there have been too many punishments. The administrative proceedings have been too marked by short, short deadlines. But after all, the result has been good. It is not in any way right that it is a goal for the Government to get as little centre as possible. We have thought – and have been confirmed by the investigations carried out, among others. of the Spjøtvoll selection – that the area of 316 dekar is a large enough area. Then it is said from the Progress Party that there will be too few homes. We have not foreseen that the homes in which people are to live must be within the center. They can live anywhere in the area. There is a lack of housing in Oslo, but there is another case. We can't take care of ourselves so that the public should be involved and finance housing in Bærum to solve it. It will be solved in another way. Let me just mention that, as far as the industry part of the plans presented is concerned, Network Fornebu has 97 000 m2 of industry activity, while IT Fornebu has 86 000 m2 of business activity. There is no worse solution at all to that, either, what the Fornebu Network provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1474	In the past, representatives from the Government and government parties have asked questions as to whether there are no limits to how far the Workers' Party is willing to meet Peace. Olsen and Norsk Investorforum in their claims. But I have to say that, after hearing Morten Lund today, I have at least made the experience that the best post so far for the majority position actually performed the representative Morten Lund himself. The fact that he takes some detours and directs some wedge angles to the Right en route can only illustrate in a way that we are still on the right track, but does the representative Morten Lund, after being in the South and registering the business of Ericsson in Grimstad, believe that, when he and Bondevik are going to implement the Bærum Municipal Plan with room for 15 000-20 000 new jobs in the Fornebu area, it will be somewhat easier to maintain IT competence in Grimstad or in other parts of the country, which so badly need to keep this important business in order to keep the wheels going in District Norway? Or does Lund think it's going to be more difficult to explain to people out in District Norway that unfortunately it won't be their turn this time either, because the state input factor in the class is several hundred million dollars, without having gone the way about the school system, should Fornebu be earmarked instead of an education system in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1479	I've in several lines, and also in my post, pointed out the possibilities that what the majority is in favour of, is going to be precious to the state, and that we're going to have to pay a lot more to have a large enough holding on Fornebu. Obviously, the representative Kristiansen had not heard that. I see that it can quickly become a problem if we go in by 300 million. kr. in the year ahead – it may have been an excessive amount, but at least a large amount each year – to follow up on what is going on at Fornebu. But it's something the majority in the Grand Duchy wants, it's not something that the Government has recommended. We have wanted to go into a project where our efforts are limited and clarified in advance, and I think that is important. In the South, I think they've come into a good situation, because they got together and went on a torch with shipowners and counties in the head to prevent the move to Fornebu. And they brought with them investors who helped where the state would also have helped. I believe that the social responsibility that the owners of the companies that are in the South feel is not going to move. And they have enough applicants. We were told that the company Nycomed, who had wanted three engineering positions, had received 100 applicants. This must indicate that professionals will also be there. So I don't think that Fornebu is going to be any problem in that particular area, but they were themselves very aware that the problem could arise. But we have many other areas, both in terms of education and in terms of setting up businesses, which are at present weaker than the South. But I seem to notice a significant improvement in mentality and at all in the situation of jobs, in the years that have gone by since the Ericsson action.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1486	I have to say it's quite strange to hear Morten Lund's posts here today, for it was amazing how little was going to go from the big crowd, from the Labour Party and the Advance Party, before Morten Lund said he was satisfied. He's the one who's been the most curative among the inter-parties and government figures. Then I want to ask him, how is Morten Lund from the Central Party, which is a government party, assessing what has actually been said by the Labour Party and the Progress Party? Is it now that government parties feel free to choose what to use and, if necessary, not use SIVA for the development of IT Fornebu? Is it so now that the Central Party believes that what the Labour Party and the Advance Party have said means that the Government can ignore the fact that SIVA is going to have any kind of role in this matter, or is it just like that – I'm sorry that I say that, President – that you're taking care of yourself to stay warm? It'll be cold fast! I would like to know how the representative Lund sees what the majority of people have come up with, and what you think it is possible to find out in the future in this matter. Then I'm very surprised that the Central Party is not more concerned about the regional policy implications of this decision. If you succeed in what is IT Fornebu Technoport's project, this can be a project that vacuums the districts of IT competence. If you fail, and it doesn't work as you think, it might as well be a scandal. Then you'll find yourself in a situation where the state is the co-owner and sponsor of something that ends up as millionaire apartments and expensive malls.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1495	The President will suggest that if the speaker has any doubts as to whether an expression fits in the hall, you should leave it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1498	The Socialist Left suggests once again that what the Labour Party and the Advance Party have contributed to today is little and almost meaningless. What I've heard was that they made their proposal with reference to what is in the proposition regarding the place of SNDs and SIVA in this – that they should have an important role, as it says in the proposition. They have also referred to the progress plan contained in the proposal and require it to be followed. Of course the government will. And then I can't understand that we're going to have any reason to worry about it. Then there are awfully many and powerful forces that suck business, knowledge and capital inward towards the center. This can happen quickly with the IT industry. I'm not in doubt about that. But it could also go the other way. Getting the country on the owner's side, getting SIVA with the knowledge they have about regional innovation, which can connect networks between central struts where there are research parks, and other strokes where there are smaller people, is a security we get through our commitment to the new project. It will make that exact vacuum cleaner not as strong as it would otherwise have been. As an example, I mentioned Southland. There the professionals will be, because there it is so nice to live. They have good working conditions. And in a number of of those companies, SIVA and the state are inside the picture and have gotten to such clusters and good development environment. I think the possibilities are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1505	I want to follow this up a little bit with SIVA's intended role. In this noise which has been around the plurality of its proposal that SIVA should take care of its interests, I have seen claims that SIVA has gone behind the government's backs, claims that it would vacuum the regions in favour of Fornebu if the intention agreement was respected. Then it is worth referring to a letter I have, addressed from the board of directors of SIVA to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, dated yesterday. It appears that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs asked SIVA in April 1999 to elaborate on the role the company could play in Fornebu bettinga. This answers the board early in May 1999, where SIVA did well for its views on the matter, with both counter-representations and possibilities, but in particular placed an emphasis on why SIVA should have the State owner role at Fornebu. Nevertheless, there is an intrusion that they have driven behind their backs on their own government. The left has reacted strongly to the agreement. At the National Council of the Left, it was said that this was an entirely unacceptable agreement. On the other hand, it is referred to in the Address Paper that the leader of the Business Committee at Stortinget, Morten Lund, believes that the government party Left is on the verge, and he says the following: ‘If the Memorandum of Understanding is realised, SIVA’s activities will be strengthened and valuable capital added.’.» This will be a good thing for the regions. Does Morten Lund still believe that the intention agreement is a good agreement for the regions and the regional development environment if it is realised? And think Morten Lund that the government, as far as it can be, should follow up what is its view of the plural in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1516	I am among those who are concerned that SIVA should be able to develop further as a good tool and a good tool for the state and for people living around the country. Then it's important that what's their main tasks will remain in focus. Until now, they've been able to combine both involvement in central strokes and to have their main exposure around. The fact that they consider a reorganisation, so that parts of the ownership of SIVA can enter an investment company together with private individuals, I don't think it's dramatic. The holdings to be included in that company are in total 7 pst. of what SIVA owns, and they already have 400 joint owners in those companies. If that's 150 million. kr into the company, which means that SIVA can have several seats, it is not dramatic in any way either. I hope that the Department and the SIVA will come up with arrangements that will ensure that the new capital does not come from a few private investors, but that it will be an open issue so that you can get many. The point must be that the statutes of the new company become such that the new company follows the same guidelines that SIVA is making today. Based on the results of SIVA that I know about, both in terms of the economy and creating new jobs, it has to be positive for those who enter as investors in that company. Otherwise I heard that the spokesperson of the Progress Party said this was a partial privatisation of SIVA. It's as wrong as it might be. It's been SIVA's job constantly trying to get in new, private capital next to their own in most of the places they are. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1525	The President is looking at the clock, but he intends to ask the representative Halvorsen to make his statement, knowing what challenges it may present with regard to the time of the morning's sitting in the case of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1528	This is a bad thing for Stortinget and for Norwegian politics. The thing in itself is bad, the game around the matter is bad, and let's hope that this day is as soon as possible over, for the spouse of embarrassing behavior with which we started this day, I have rarely seen. In my opinion, all parties are weakened. The government is weakened, because they did not have the opportunity to give a clear indication of where this government's limit goes in terms of dominance from the majority of the population. The majority of the population is weakened, because they have run one thing so far, but obviously the Progress Party has got cold feet last night. Thank you and the price for SV not participating in this game and the spectacle. It is poorly handled, and it is a bad thing in itself. If this IT centre at Fornebu succeeds, this is the most dramatic decision with effect for the district policy that is being made during this large-scale period. It can vacuum the IT competence workplace districts, a technology that would just lead to exciting jobs for people with training in the districts. This leads to more pressure in the Oslo area, which already has a lot of pressure. What we need in the Oslo area are housing, not workplaces that require even more housing. If this fails, the bulk of the population here today can be involved in mixing the state into something that could end up as a housing and purchasing centre at IT Fornebu. It'll be a scandal, too. What is now in the position of SIVA and the relationship between what the Labour Party and the Advance Party really means, and what is in the proposition, we have not yet succeeded in finding out. We're hoping that a line changer in addition to the evening can bring clarity to that question. SV will vote against all suggestions in the configuration. We have no faith in this project. On the SV side, we also have strong objections to what is called constitutional conditions for the majority of population, and that the government has found itself far on the way in the big business that has evolved. This is not something that should only be interested in magnification and government and for someone in the press. This should have a broad political interest. It is of interest to the voters to know who is responsible for what is going on in politics at all times. It's now at most unclear. Firstly, we have a minority government that alternately seeks support from the Workers' Party on the one day and from the Right and the Advance Party on the next day. Then, in addition, we have a big one that seeks a majority outside of the Government. If you're talking about democracy, you're concerned that most people should have the opportunity to understand what's going on and who's actually responsible, this is a very important question, and now the Storting and the Government are just rotating it even more. This is also important for business and all stakeholder organisations that want to influence policy. Is it that way that you can really skip the government? Here are departments, offices, officials with certain standards of how to treat stakeholder organisations and press groups, but this case shows that there is only one thing that applies: Get to Stortinget as soon as possible. Skip the office, arrow into the office of Hedstrøm, clipped down what you want into the setting, and so it's okay. Are there rules of play with which organisations and business interests are earned for the future? That's it! That's it! There is no possibility of the awarding of a tender or of negotiating with any person who may be required to award a tender. It's messy and very ominous for those who have good things to make. The ex post division of responsibilities is also of great interest in this issue. The Supervisory and Constituent Committee of the European Parliament has now spent a long time finding out what is the actual situation of the Gardermo case. If or when this project becomes a scandal, who is responsible? The formal responsibility lies with the Council of State. But the real responsibility lies with the majority of the population from the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. Who is responsible for the obligation to provide information? Are they the members of the Storting from the majority parties, or are they the government parties? What do we know about which contacts have been made underhand and behind backs, and I don't know what, in dark hooks in these matters? Who is responsible for this? This matter raises very large questions of principle, and I would therefore like to take up the proposal submitted by SV, which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1547	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. The scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that the change of line be implemented before the meeting is cancelled – and considers it adopted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1554	After the intervention of the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, one can start to wonder if the representative, Halvorsen, has chosen a political path, because it can sound like the Stortinge is not supposed to have any meaning at all. Then you can ask again whether the representative Halvorsen should have chosen a different career than political life, because the Stortinget is simply established to look towards it. That's what the majority in Stortinget has done over and over again and comes about the same distance, even in the situation that we've now had two negotiated agreements, between which the Stortinget has the option to choose. There can be nothing wrong with it when this happens in relation to different directions given by Storting itself. The representative Halvorsen must have the idea that the Storting will operate in a vacuum and only have to do with the Storting. It was right that the representative, Mr Halvorsen, stood on the floor of Stortinget and said so. It is not that what goes on in the SV's office in this house is a lot better or a lot of hamsaint compared to what goes on in other offices. It should just be missing that Stortinget can't talk to people. I'm glad that we have as many around us as we can talk to and that can give us advice that we have. It's worse with SV and Left, which are so few that they barely have the ability to talk to others than themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1561	Then the representative Halvorsen has the opportunity to talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1564	I guess it'll be to myself. Actually, it's true that the representative Opseth is involved, that one day like this, I'm asking myself what in the world you're doing. And that question is the jam more than I should be asking today, for example. Mr Opseth. Because this isn't about politics or the big lines, it's just about games and specks and how we can put our legs on the government today, and how we can make them crawl every now and then over the floor here so that they're really must down in the carpet. Then you've kind of had a big day. Is that politics? Glorious, we are one of the richest countries in the world, we have opportunities that no one else has — to invest in school, to do something real with the environment, and to eradicate poverty in Norway. But is that what you're doing here in the house? Oh, no -- not at all! What this country needs is that a majority in this house had come to their senses and created a political constellation that could plan for something more than half a day at a time. This is very unworthy. This matter is not about anyone talking to each other. But I have noticed that Opseth has been asked the question how State Council Opseth would have handled a matter if he was instructed so strongly nine times in Stortinget. And he might even remember what he said. He said, "I would never have put myself in such a situation." So the question is then returned to the Workers' Party: Is it such that the Workers' Party has set a standard for the relationship between accumulation and government which is about a detailed management that we have not seen since the mid-war period, and which is also such that the Workers' Party believes it is perfectly acceptable next time, when Jens Stoltenberg becomes Prime Minister? I don't think so. I think that, as Opseth has said, they would never face such a situation. Then I think it is unreasonable to expose others to that treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1573	I'm being badly affected by Kristin Halvorsen's posts. She makes rough claims and takes the word conspiracy in her mouth. I can hardly believe that this should be an exponent for the true face of socialism in Norway – hardly! The question is whether it is Kristin Halvorsen's true face. I have been the case rapporteur for IT Fornebu in this round, and my office has been open to all stakeholders, all who have been interested in contributing to the process. I thought Kristin Halvorsen had held a course on lobbyism. I want to say it so strongly that lobbyism is carried out very little in Norway in relation to a number of other countries, but the point of lobbyism must be that they are lobbied towards it, hear all the different actors and make their own opinions. But we have a real socialist party in Norway, because I will dare to say that no other Western European country will say no to capitalists, who will, of course, make profit, who want to invest money in the hundreds of millions of classes in their country and get to value creation. And by economic value creation, I mean that what you get at the end of a production process has higher values than the inputs and is sold on price and quality. But I think this situation is relatively serious, so I now demand that Kristin Halvorsen – she is, after all, the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Left Party – document her claims. I have done my best, I, and tried to take all the interests into account in this matter. I demand that she now document her claims on conspiracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1582	Mr Hedstrøm began by stating that he was ill-affected. Yes, then I actually see a little brighter on life if I have managed to make Hedstrom ill affected. And if Hedstrøm thinks he's going to define what is socialism in Norwegian in Norway in 2000, he's wrong. It is no longer a consultant I could have thought of consulting on such a question. Hedstrom is right, I have held various courses on lobbyism for organisations with good things and little money that want to influence the decision-making processes of the policy. And the first commandment in that is, who is the one dealing with the matter? What's the matter with the Government about, what's the matter with the Storting about? Now it is actually asked about my next course in lobbyism, and all the other advice for lobbyists and business interests, must be: Forget the departments, blow the office, blow the councils, go straight to Stortinget and like to Hedstrom or someone else who can easily be impressed! I do not know if there has been any corruption in this type of case. I didn't say that. I also do not know what kind of conspiracies might be behind this case. But I think it’s an interesting study that has made the Progress Party think it’s going to be state crowns for this. Now it's actually the way that we don't get to know it, because it's not public access to what's going on. We're not under the information obligation of Stortinget, and Hedstrom can keep his secrets to himself. There is just some of this that makes the control and constitutional issues in this case serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1593	There are some things that follow this debate, which may not have quite understood everything. This is probably a little bit difficult with SIVA. What an incubator is is probably quite problematic as well. But it's all about, it's actually the Workers' Party using Mr. Opseth and Right have managed to move our main airfield from Fornebu to the Gardermoen, and then there are some plots available there. That's the problem. And because of this, this case is here for the ninth time, and is discussed eagerly. What is Kristin Halvorsen's alternative? Is it that one should simply have sold these properties to the highest bidder, then perhaps those who were interested in IT could city if they had such faith in this as a business enterprise that they thought it was worth it to city? Or maybe someone was interested in exploiting Norway's best residential space to build dwellings, and thought it would pay off today's land prices in this area, and maybe they would have offered? What is the view of the representative Halvorsen of a market economy solution to this issue compared to a state-directed solution, where this area is identified as a very specific application? Now, if you chose the market economy solution, the state would sit with the purchase price and could perhaps make a big contribution by giving more money to research in the ordinary way at our universities and research institutions. What does the representative Halvorsen think about a market economy solution to the land problem at Fornebu?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1600	I really want to invite the representative Gundersen to vote with SV here today. It doesn't seem like the disagreement between us is very big. Let's say that in the case of the airfield, the least problem is that we've got free land on Fornebu – the former main aerodrome on the east coast. There are plots that should have been used for dwellings in an area that is under very great pressure. And that's pretty correct. If we had sold this for market prices, the money that was the gain could be used to invest in IT equipment, for example. Around the schools. Now we have to laugh for every penny we have to have for a poor PC around the country's classroom, and that's where the future is sitting in this area. It would have been a much more sensible use of the money than going in so that an IT centre would be located on the inside of the plots in the Oslo area. In this case, it is not such that SV runs a fit race that no one agrees to. It's actually the way that those who run the industry and the industry don't have any faith that it's necessary to gather thousands of IT nerds in one area so that they can just talk to each other in the lunch break and have their kids together in the same nursery, so you really get a ghetto out there. On the contrary, if you create a little different environments in a little different areas in the country, it is a better use of technology, better for competitiveness – just a more modern way of thinking. The way to think about IT Fornebu we believe is the 1950s industrial solutions applied to the new technology. We think it's wrong, and we have a lot of people with us on it, maybe even the representative Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1610	The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, started this debate by saying that this was a big and important matter, so it was important that we had the possibility of five lines after the speakers. Immediately afterwards she came and asked herself in her article what all the days we were running with, and hoped that this matter and this day might be over. So I wonder what Halvorsen really means – whether this is a big and important thing. Then the Halvors says that we should rather go up the long lines. We have poverty problems that need to be solved, we need to bet on education, research and many good purposes. That's what we should take care of. Yes, for all intents and purposes, but does not the Halvorsen see that these are two sides of the same matter? If we are to strengthen care for the elderly, if we are to strengthen our educational activities and all good purposes, we must first acquire values. But it may be far beyond what SV is now thinking about, because business policy has never cared about it. But we are facing a formidable transformation in society where we need to stimulate growth in some areas of activity in which it is possible to generate growth. The Norwegian Research Council has pointed out the area. Marine sector and aquaculture may be most of it, but a knowledge-intensive and technology-based industry is the other option. A center on Fornebu will be a tool in this way, and it's not supposed to be involved in vacuuming the regions. On the contrary, it is an important element for regional development. Because what's at stake is competence, and the weary regions are now. One escapes from the regions to the central region, and from the country to the international region. So my question is, doesn't Kristin Halvorsen see that it is necessary to pursue active industrial policies as a basis for a different initiative in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1619	I still believe that this is not a great day for Stortinget. But once you have made such a mistake, you must be interested in getting the most out of the facts of the matter. Now Hedstrøm's regime, i.e. Carl I. Hagen's regiment, of this case because it started with a giant belly pad, but it might not be Rudihagen the first one to be reproached for. I see that the Workers' Party believes that this should be a way of focusing on the new knowledge-based technology, which should be what shifts investment and jobs into other areas, and which should make us not as dependent on oil as it has now been. I see it's the intentions. But SV does not believe that this is the recipe for an IT and competence industry. On the contrary, we believe that the best state could contribute in this area would be to strengthen educational institutions, to strengthen research and to strengthen investment in schools, so that it is certain that the growing family has modern, up-to-date ways of working, and not to drive and salt down money by choosing one type of IT provider fornebu. I think it is really strange that the government has not used the decision that the Stortinget has made in the past, that all major issues should be assessed from a district policy perspective. This is precisely a matter in which no decision should be taken until the impact of regional policy has been properly investigated. If this succeeds, I fear that in a great many areas where you are now creating interesting IT companies, there will be major problems in being able to bring down the workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07.ana.ud238e1628	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The time for this morning's meeting is up. This meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
