ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e15	The representative, Hilde Frafjord Johnson, has applied for medical leave from the evening meeting on Thursday 23 March and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Olaf Gedrem, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e33	Olaf Gedrem is present and will take the seat. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e45	I have followed the debate at the morning meeting and would like to state that I am satisfied with the receipt of the government statement. The government's wish with the declaration has been to set up some goals, some visions, some values that we'll reach for at the entrance of a new century. We have tried to say something about how we want to use Norway as a society of opportunity. Among other things, we have set up as an objective to: renewing the public sector in order to strengthen the well-being of investing in education and skills to develop our most important resource: people living here in the country to become a leading country in environmental policy in a world where global environmental problems are the most challenging to develop industrial policies that make use of the whole country and secure work and value creation to focus more on the fight against poverty in the world These are ambitious targets, but without ambitious targets, we will certainly get to the bottom of it. The majority will see that we take the ambitions seriously and will follow them up with concrete proposals. We're going to bring things in order, thoroughly prepared and carefully thought out. Then we must be prepared that there will be more strife and more disunity. But that there is initially agreement on many of the objectives is not a disadvantage; it is an advantage. Although the Government in the Declaration places the emphasis on being long-term, setting some goals and visions for societal development, we also point to concrete measures, such as: that we will establish a right for adults to receive secondary education. This is an important building block in a greater skills reform, the reform of continuing education and training. increase the income of municipalities. We believe that this is necessary to ensure welfare production in the municipalities, to ensure that part of the welfare society that is responsible for most of our education system, care for the elderly and essential parts of the health care system. re-establish the VAT system by treating goods and services in the same way. This is an important contribution to ensuring the long-term funding of well-being, because we know that service consumption is growing most and that it is currently largely exempt from VAT, while goods are subject to VAT. establish a programme for the development of clean-up technologies for the greenhouse gas CO2. We have outstanding prerequisites for success in Norway, both because we have gas competence, because we are a leading energy nation, and because we have reservoirs on a Norwegian base that are suitable for the deposition of CO2. The programme we are about to launch will be a joint programme between authorities and businesses to develop clean-up technologies for the greenhouse gas CO2. follow up our proposal in the budget negotiations last year on participation in the World Carbon Fund — in and on a small proposal, but an important contribution for Norway to be the driving force behind the development of what is called the Kyoto mechanisms, the mechanisms to provide an effective agreement to reduce world greenhouse gas emissions. open to use gas for power generation in Norway. This will reduce our need to import highly polluting power from our neighbouring countries, thereby reducing total greenhouse gas emissions. Moreover, it will help us to develop even more environmentally friendly technologies even faster. propose that Telenor become a listed company. This means that we can give the company new capital and new impulses, thus strengthening Telenor as our leading knowledge company. The objective is to have a proposal clear during the spring. propose changes in the management of state ownership of the petroleum industry. Among other things, we will open up private joint ownership in Statoil and transfer parts of the country's direct holdings to the company. Here too, the aim is to make proposals during the spring, but we have to have some more time before we can say with certainty whether we are able to make proposals before the summer, or whether it will come to the harvest. support and lead to work to ensure that all the world’s children are vaccinated. These are some of the concrete proposals launched by the Government in its government statement, and are therefore an expression that we have tried to combine the visions, the values, the objectives with some concrete measures in relation to how we think the best can be achieved. Some of these proposals are widely agreed on; some are dissenting about; some are a follow-up to work the previous government has started. That's the way it is at every government change. This was also the case when the Bondevik government took over after the Jagland government. For example, it was then that the Jagland government had presented the aging plan. The Bondevik government followed it up. That's excellent, that's all satisfied with. Corresponding to the Psychiatric Action Plan. It is based on a big message from former health minister Gudmund Hernes and was followed up by the government of Bondevik. The government does not have as its own objective the promotion of proposals that create conflict. On the contrary, our aim is to promote proposals that can achieve our objectives and that can contribute to pooling solutions and get a majority in this room. But of course, we are also prepared for some of the proposals we are going to promote, some of the concrete measures we are going to launch, to create political strife and political disagreement. That is what political work is all about. A main message has been to renew the public sector in order to strengthen the public sector and to strengthen its well-being. For some, renewal means privatisation. It's not for the Workers' Party. The public must continue to be responsible for the welfare services, responsibility for ensuring all health, education and other fundamental welfare goods on equivalent terms irrespective of their place of residence and income. But private has a role to play, and non-governmental organisations have a role to play. It was underlined in the government statement. That is also the situation today. Most – or large parts – of primary health services, the health services we meet when we get sick, are based on private doctors. Most of the expansion of kindergartens in the 1990s has been private kindergartens. Much of the drug supply, much of the rehabilitation activity, is done by private or non-governmental organisations. But the characteristic of all of this is that it happens within the framework of the community, with solidarity arrangements and in a solidarity way. This type of private contribution, this type of contribution from private and volunteers to the construction and provision of welfare services, we are adjoining. What we're opponents of is what I want to call commercialization, which means that the offers are different depending on income and residence. Norway will become a leading country in environmental policy. Then we have to innovate that the nature of the main environmental problems is changing. In the past, the classic environmental problems were emissions from a factory that released poisons and created local environmental problems. These are still serious in many places, but are not the most demanding environmental problems today. The most demanding environmental problems today are the global environmental problems, mainly the greenhouse effect. It does not matter whether one tonne of greenhouse gas, one tonne of CO2, is discharged into Norway or Nigeria, is caused by a leakage from the Sibir gas pipeline or by the combustion of gas in Spain. Therefore, global environmental problems must be addressed with global agreements, and therefore they must be met with a whole new generation of environmental policy instruments. It's about countries being able to join forces to implement emission reductions, so that we invest and put in the effort where we get the most emission reduction for each krona invested. It is a matter of joint implementation and quota trade, and the Workers' Party is pleased that the world has gathered on the kind of mechanisms under the Kyoto Agreement, which was adopted in the autumn of 1997. We want the agreement to be put in place as soon as possible so that we can begin to implement the mechanisms contained in the Kyoto agreement. The second is that of course we have to take inwards that CO2 is a pollution. When the second largest party of the Storting believes that there is no pollution, it is completely contrary to a basic assumption in order to be an environmental priority country, namely to recognise that a pollution problem is actually that. Finally, I would like to say that there has been little debate on the Government's proposal that we should lead the vaccine initiative, but in fact I believe that is the most important thing we said in the government statement. If Norway can contribute to the vaccination of all the world’s children, it is one of the most important things we can do in our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e123	At the beginning of this ageing period, there was a considerable — almost enormous — interest in getting interest rates down in our country. Talk about pressure in the economy and tight budgets just to get interest rates down, was what was in. Thanks, among others, to: – among others – the first two budgets in this period, which the Progress Party and the Right gave subsidiary support, have reduced interest rates to a normal level. But today, the central bank manager, who has in the meantime changed monetary policy in practice to be directed more towards an inflation target, and what we think makes sense, is that interest rate rise is possible. He refers, inter alia, to: to the increase in inflation — the increase in oil prices is also striking in Norway, despite being a very significant oil exporter, directly affecting inflation. One percentage point of the price increase says the Governor of the Central Bank Gedrem that the oil price increase results. This is not a matter for other countries, but Norway can. In this house, we can reduce both the diesel and petrol taxes and thereby reduce inflationary pressures by lowering the price increase by this one percentage point. At least at the moment, the risk of interest rate increase, which will affect many common people in our country, would be over. Can we expect Prime Minister Stoltenberg and the new government now to start thinking about the usual woman and man in this country – and not just salting down money to Jagland and I become retired – by just using some of the surplus to reduce the fuel and diesel tax, so that we avoid an interest rate increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e128	First, I would like to thank Mr Hagen for addressing the question of interest and inflation. It is an important question, and it gives me the opportunity to underline the following: Although the Norwegian economy is solid, although there is very much going well in the Norwegian economy, there are some danger signals. One of them is the price rise — inflation. The last number we got was 3.2 pst, while our competitor country is below 2 pst. 3.2 pst. is a good part higher than intended – at least a part higher than intended – and it is not that we are now at 3.2 pst. and the others are below 2 p.m., can be explained by oil, because oil consumption also has in our competitors or in the other OECD countries, so it must be due to Norwegian conditions. It underlines that we have a pressure in the economy, which means that we still have to pursue a responsible fiscal policy. I am absolutely sure that the governor will believe, and he also emphasised in his year, that pumping more oil money into the Norwegian economy either by increasing expenditure or by reducing taxes and taxes, reducing the income of the state, will increase the pressure, increase the risk of price rise and thus increase the risk of high interest rates. So I would recommend to the representative Hagen that, if he first quotes and uses the governor as a witness to the truth of economic policy, he should do so outright. I am absolutely sure that the Governor wants a tight fiscal policy and not the kind of weakening of fiscal policy that Mr Hagen suggested by inviting to use oil revenues to reduce taxes and thus increase the risk of inflation. We want to pursue a responsible fiscal policy both to safeguard employment, well-being, in the short term – increasing interest rates and increasing inflation will undermine it – and also to ensure this in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e135	First, since the Prime Minister called for the attitude of the Storting to the World Programme for the Vaccine of Children, I would just like to say that it has the full support of the Centre Parties. I gave that on behalf of the central government in a letter to the World Health Organization for approx. Seven weeks ago. The government has announced an active European policy. It surprises me that the first concrete advance in this way is such an approach to the EU Patent Directive as that of the Government Declaration, where it said: ‘We will actively focus on the development of biotechnology. Norway shall not stand outside the new technological revolution. The Government will assess the EU Patents Directive on this basis.’.» But this is a matter of great ethical dilemmas. Then you can not have such a one-sided attitude to this as the statement states. There is a great deal of reason to problemate the matter. It is a matter of distinguishing between inventions and discoveries, including: and primarily on naturally occurring material. Most of the naturally occurring biological material exists in developing countries, and there is also reason to ask: Will the directive mean that large multinational companies can take exclusive rights to the genetic resources of developing countries? We need a proper review of this, which must be far more problematic than the government statement indicates. This has no haste either. As far as I know, the EU has still not included this in the EEA Committee, and therefore it has not made EEA-relevant. Finally, the Government has made the modernisation of public administration a major concern. It's positive. We'll have to wait for the government's concrete proposal to see what it means. What we know is that at the time of the government change, there was a considerable amount of work going on in this area. Reduction and simplification of the form field, greater freedom for municipalities, modernisation of central government – all of this under the project ‘Simplify Norway’, more than 100 individual projects outlined in this project catalogue. Will the new government follow up on this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e149	First of all, I am pleased that Mr Bondevik is expressing his support for the vaccine initiative. I noticed that he referred to the letter he sent to the WHO. That's excellent. What we're doing, in addition to the government, is notifying financial support, and that we want to lead the initiative. I feel that the Christian People's Party is prepared to support it too, and that's fine. It is then an example of a case in which we can gather on an important joint task of government and the centre parties, so that we can also gather on other important aspects of aid and development policy. As far as the Patent Directive is concerned, of course, the Government will come back to that, because it is among the issues we have not in any way been able to deal with in the few days we have been sitting in the government offices. However, I would just like to stress the following: What Norway is going to decide about is not whether the EU should have a patent directive, with which one can be more or less satisfied. It has adopted and will implement and deal with what they think and what they want. What we are going to decide is whether the Patent Directive is to apply to Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway. And that's where we have influence, because it had to be worth it. So I think there is a limited interest for developing countries in whether this is a directive that applies to the whole EU plus Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway, or whether it only applies to the whole EU. Then we have to assess whether the patent directive limits our policy, for example. ensuring us against the undesirable effects of biotechnology. But there it is that I understand that even though a product is patented, we can still impose national restrictions on its use in our own country. So there I think you have to separate those two questions. But all of this we're going to get back to in turn and in order. For the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project, we will go through it thoroughly. As far as I see, it's a sensible project, and we want to incorporate it into our work of renewing the public sector. Just how we want to do it, we're going to get back to it eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e158	I think I'm going to take up the thread from Hagen's line, because the Prime Minister's answer to that was what he didn't intend to do with the pressure problem that is now emerging in the Norwegian economy. But then the question is, what does he intend to do? Because this is not an easy question. The Prime Minister is quite right that there are some important domestic relations that are also going out here. And one of these domestic conditions is the budget adopted by the Central Government and the Workers' Party. When the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Center agreed on a budget, interest went down, and confidence in the Norwegian economy increased. Now, the Labour Party and the Centre have created a budget, and then they put it, and then the price rise is more than what we thought a few months ago, and then there's a risk of interest increases. And as if that's not enough, there are some budget bombs here. We have seen that KFOR is clearly under-budgeted, we know that there are problems in the municipal budgets, and already after a few days the Labour Party distanced itself from its own decision on the hospital economy, when Asmund Kristoffersen said the following: «... I think we have adopted a budget of hospitals and counties cannot live with. This is very serious!’ And therefore, Stoltenberg has a problem when he now comes to the government offices and takes over his own budget. It's a pretty peculiar situation that when it turns into a shift from one government to another, then a dollar is not disposed of differently. But then essentially the question is, when it puts on as it does and the danger signals are there, what does Stoltenberg intend to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e173	First of all, I would like to say that I do not consider it a major problem to take over government responsibilities and then have the opportunity to take over the budget we voted for. I think it is an advantage. It makes everything considerably easier. Secondly, it is not the case – if we are to discuss history – that the budgets for which the Right and the Advance Party voted led to lower interest rates, on the contrary. In fact, when it was decided to cut the budget dramatically in the autumn of 1997 compared to the proposed budget of the Jagland government, it made a significant contribution to the pressure problems we had in 1998 and the dramatic increase in interest rates we received in 1998. Since then, interest rates have been lowered, that's quite correct, but they're still not down to the level they were on under the Jagland government. Now I would like to stress that economic policy must never be a Norway championship in the lowest possible interest rates. Interest shall be based on an assessment of the liability based on the monetary policy guidelines in force. But if you first start discussing, it's still the way it was the budgets that were adopted with the votes of the Progress Party and the Right that contributed to the strong interest rate increase, and we're still not back at the level that we had before. So it's true that we have obvious budgetary problems. There are some problems we're inheriting. There has obviously been a lack of budgeting for the KFOR forces – an exceedance of over DKK 1 billion. This is a problem that needs to be addressed in the middle of the year. The revised national budget is an opportunity to discuss how to implement the adopted budget, and we hope that the parties that have contributed to the adoption of the budget we now have will also be involved in implementing it within the framework and assumptions laid down at the time of adoption of the budget. And then is the main contribution to avoiding pressure, cost growth, weakening competitiveness, reducing industry and increasing interest rates, of course, to keeping the budgetary framework. Then it's very easy in principle to be for it, but it's quite demanding when we see what it means in practice. We will then have to discuss this when the revised national budget comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e182	I want to go back a little bit to the situation in the health sector and in the public sector, where the Prime Minister now repeats the importance of renewal and that renewal is not equivalent to privatisation. Of course, I agree with that. The Prime Minister also said that private operations are mainly carried out by non-governmental organisations, not commercial, and within the community and solidarity framework. We are beginning to gain some experience that tendering also leads to problems for the non-profit organisations operating in the healthcare sector. This leads to the forced entry into the same commercialisation as the private, commercial actors, and there are already some reactions and requests from nonprofit, private organisations to organise this in a different way, because you cannot cope with competition in the way you had seen it. We have significant challenges in this area, and it is positive that the Prime Minister attaches importance to achieving cooperation. The center is going to vote for what we're in favour of. It is not even certain that we will vote against what we are for, given that the proposals are unnecessary – that even if you are for them, they are unnecessary, as Stoltenberg argued in the gas power case. So we're going to vote for what we're for. I showed in my post that the central government put out Ot.prp. No 25 for 1999-2000, where it was said that we want to organise county hospitals as independent legal entities. We want to limit the transition to a limited liability company as far as possible, given that we focus on, among other things. keeping a regional balance in relation to access to health professionals, which is a critical factor in that sector today. Strong transformations into a limited liability company lead to concentration, resulting in wage formation within each unit and thus to regional imbalances. This is not an immaterial question, and I would like to reiterate the challenge from my main post: Is it in the Workers' Party's modernisation of the health and social sector that the party will go beyond the central government on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e191	First, a very brief remark about the gas power debate a few weeks ago. It is therefore true that the proposal on which the government raised cabinet questions was not the proposal to agree to open up gas power plants, but it was a proposal that was promoted and examined after all the proposals had been adopted. The Progress Party believes that it fully provided the basis for the construction of gas power plants, while the centre parties are obviously of a different opinion. It says all about the proposal that the Progress Party could vote in favour of it. It illustrates that the main discussion here is that there is disagreement about what is to be strengthened and what is to weaken environmental policy. Then it is much more straightforward to take an open confrontation on it than to contribute to trying to adopt a proposal that would have created a ambiguity as to what the Storting had actually adopted. We are criticized for being in alliance with the Right in Environmental Policy. Well, I can't understand that it could be anything better to be in alliance with the Advance Party, as the center parties were in the question where they chose to ask cabinet questions. So the government has put forward a proposition for the Stortinget on hospitals and the organisation of hospitals where you put up a slightly more freer position. We first have to decide what the Government is doing with the matters in Stortinget. It shall try to do so within the coming week, at least as quickly as possible, so that the Storting can be informed of it quickly and clearly. We've had as a very important governing principle that we don't start commenting on the individual things that are being promoted and that we're going to decide whether we're drawing or not. But in any case, we will decide on this from the Government either by promoting additional notifications or by drawing the cases that lie behind us, or by leaving the cases in Stortingen and taking a stand on the individual proposals while they are in Stortingen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e199	The Prime Minister has expressed his satisfaction with the debate so far, and it does not seem that SV is strange, for it has probably been characterized primarily by intense grief on the civil side. The interesting thing is that in this debate it is the Progress Party and the Centre that have allied themselves in common interest to fill in the Right. Especially those who remember two and a half years ago, remember with what trouble the center discovered that they were actually dependent on the support of the Advance Party, but they would rather not have it. Now they clapping and ironing on the Promskrittsparte so that he curates and paints contentedly. As long as this is the situation among the bourgeois parties, the Workers' Party has nothing to fear if it is the government power that is the most important. Then they'll be safe. I am pleased that the Prime Minister says that you have to come back carefully and carefully with regard to the Patent Directive. The government announces that they will pursue an active European policy, but it is not active if Norway rushes through and approves the agreement to the Patent Directive, while EU countries protest. It is true that the Netherlands has appealed this Directive to the Court of Justice of the European Union in the light of the threat to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity and has received support from Italy. Norway has supported this view. It's not like Norway is doing something that's just interesting for Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland – I think maybe the Prime Minister forgot Monaco. In fact, Norway’s contribution here may be part of a major international debate, especially what Bondevik had to say. This concerns the largest taxes in this area. They are in developing countries, and what has been seen in some areas, is that difficult international groups have taken up patents on what is naturally occurring seeds, thus placing farmers in a very difficult situation. Take time on this matter. If not, the Workers' Party turns away from something that you basically had a lot of concerns with before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e206	Firstly, I don't think Monaco is in the EFTA pillar, to put it that way, in the equivalent cooperation between EFTA and the EU within the EEA Agreement, but that they are in the EU pillar through France. However, whether Norway intends to veto the implementation of the Monaco Patent Directive, I do not think that will be decisive in relation to our assessments of that Directive. What will be crucial is, of course, an assessment of the directive as such. But it's a compromise. It is a result of long political processes in which no one has got it exactly as they would, and where several EU countries are obviously dissatisfied with parts of the Directive. But what I tried to find in my speech is that the EU is moving forward with its directive both to ensure a common standard of what is to be patented in a global, international economy where they think it is necessary, and to ensure the development of one of the most dynamic industries in the world and the new technological revolution, the biotechnology revolution. They're going to do that regardless of what Norway decides. Whether one is very dissatisfied with, a little dissatisfied with, only partly dissatisfied with the Patent Directive, it will still be necessary to assess the consequences for Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland that we veto the introduction of the Directive for those countries when it is introduced for the EU countries. A key issue that I do not fully understand yet is the extent to which we can continue to have national legislation that prohibits and regulates biotechnology use permitted under the Patent Directive, i.e. it may be subject to patentability, but may nevertheless be prohibited in Norway by national law. It will be a key issue that will determine whether it would be right for Norway to join the Directive or not. We need to deal with this thoroughly and in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e213	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e216	The government of Bondevik has had to give up the seat of the government of Stoltenberg. That is the parliamentary system. A majority constellation here in the Storting can at any time decide that now the current minority government can no longer be allowed to continue its work. That was the situation in Stortinget on Thursday 9 March when the government of Bondevik became involved in an important environmental issue. When Prime Minister Stoltenberg describes the parliamentary situation in his declaration of accession by claiming that ‘the Bondevik government chose to leave’, that is a completely wrong description. The government did not choose to resign. On the contrary, it was strongly motivated to continue its important work of expanding healthcare, focusing on education and research, pursuing a long-term and sound environmental policy, pursuing human rights, peace and reconciliation, protecting vulnerable groups both here and internationally, working for a family policy that ensures the right of children's families to the same benefits regardless of the choice of form of care, streamlining and modernising public administration and pursuing an active rural policy – to mention some important areas of action. No, the government of Bondevik did not leave because it chose to leave, was tired of government responsibility or had problems with the relationship in the center parties, as I have also seen it being claimed. It was addressed on a cabinet issue related to the issue of the construction of gas power plants could be done without weakening the pollution law as an important environmental policy instrument. The Labour Party and the Right did a common cause and voted against the proposal that I put forward on behalf of the government parties, despite the fact that both parties claimed that they were in substance in agreement with the intention of the proposal. In the Government Declaration, the Government announces a renewed effort for a clean environment and will make Norway ‘a leading country in environmental policy’, as it called. It is quite free and not credible when we know which case fell on the previous government and opened the way to the government of Stoltenberg. What are the models and objectives of environmental policy that the Prime Minister sets out when the Government wants to make Norway a leading country in environmental policy while at the same time pursuing a policy that goes in the opposite direction? An overall environmental movement, together with environmental stakeholders, staging representatives, county managers and local team leaders from the Prime Minister’s own party, has been clearly opposed to the decision to allow the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. Unfortunately, if Norway is to become a leading country in environmental policy — and the centre parties would like to support it — the Labour Party has given this vision a hopeless starting point with a big step in the wrong direction. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Kjell Magne Bondevik, has today, on behalf of the three central parties, summarised the basis for continued centre cooperation in twelve points. In this summary, the lines are clearly passed on from the Declaration of Adults – through the work of the Bondevik government for nearly 21⁄2 years and to the current situation where the three central opposition parties will coordinate political work and act as one political grouping when important issues are debated in the Stortinget. Of course, the Christian People's Party is well pleased with the signals in the government's Declaration of Accession, which confirms that the new government will continue several of the initiatives and work undertaken by the government of Bondevik. Many of the wordings of the Declaration of Accession invite cooperation to address key policy challenges both nationally and globally. Here we will act objectively and constructively in opposition. At the same time, it is not difficult to identify striking differences in priorities and approaches to these policy challenges. We can see that by comparing the Declaration of Accession with the summary of twelve points presented by Kjell Magne Bondevik on behalf of the Centre Parties. Where the Government Declaration is general and reasonably non-obligatory, the Centre Parties give more binding signals on how important policy issues should be followed up. Both economic, technical and administrative issues have received broad publicity and attention in the government statement. A lot of this we agree on and we can probably also work together to find good solutions. But I lack more complementary, committed and binding wording on Community values, on the values on which society is to be built, on the content and objectives of school, on the family and social networks, on the Church and voluntary organisations, on the place of sport and culture. Of course, all this is not mentioned – something is not mentioned, but something is not entirely omitted, but unfortunately only objected to the end of the declaration, and then only in the form of keywords without the attempts at deepening that have become other more technical-economic matters. Unfortunately, it confirms the impression that the Government still has its political focus mainly on material and economic matters. I miss a similar focus on Community values and the intangible, spiritual values that have such an impact on people's well-being, on quality of life and on good life. Social democracy can undoubtedly reap a good share of the credit for contributing to the expansion of the modern welfare society. It's part of Norwegian political history. In that work, the Workers' Party has always had the warm support of the Christian People's Party. But in the efforts for social security and economic cohesion, the Labour Party has unfortunately failed to give the spiritual needs of man a similar attention that has become the more tangible material needs. Of course, it is never too late to correct the course and fix the missed one, and I believe that the time will come for such a search and correction of the course. I see it, for example. as very positive that the Prime Minister now wants the Value Commission to complete its work. Of course, when the work has come this far, it is natural that this happens. However, I choose to look at the confirmation from the Prime Minister that the Value Commission will complete its important work, with the Prime Minister's own choice of words, as a signal that there is an increasing understanding also in the Workers' Party in order to discuss and make visible the values and values on which we, as individuals and societies, are to build life and the future. Foreign Minister Jagland and the Government Declaration warn ‘a foreign policy that further promotes Norwegian interests in the new Europe’, as it is said. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also confirmed in his statement this morning that he will pay great attention to European policy in general and the EU in particular. I think that for my part is both important and valuable, even though I support the concept of ‘stronger’ in this context. I leave it, but at the same time note that the government statement is clear on the very basis of cooperation with the European Union. The Government will build this cooperation on the outcome of the 1994 referendum and the EEA Agreement, as the Government of Bondevik did. In addition, the Bondevik Government was well-informed with a big message about European policy, and I note with satisfaction that this work will now be continued by the government of Stoltenberg. Europe is in strong transformation both economically and politically. Of course, this will also affect Norway because Norway is part of Europe and interacts with Europe both economically and politically. But that does not mean that the question of membership should therefore be re-updated. On the contrary, I think it was wise for the Prime Minister to clarify, as communicated through the press, that he does not, for his part, see any new debate on our relationship with the European Union until the end of the next enlargement period at the earliest in 2005. I assume that this will also be the basis for the work of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on European policy. In a reply to me at this morning's meeting, the Foreign Minister confirmed that he would follow up and work on both the aid escalation plan and the human rights action plan presented by the Government of Bondevik. It was an important confirmation that I, for my part, greatly appreciated. Some try to create a conflict of interest between concentrating foreign and security policies on Europe and the neighbourhoods in relation to the important peace and reconciliation work taking place in other parts of the world. Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk and Minister of Human Rights Frafjord Johnson demonstrated through their activities that this is an artificial distinction. In recent times, Norwegian foreign policy has not been either – or, but a both – and in this context. I assume that Foreign Minister Jagland and the Government will otherwise continue this important tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e237	Let me just start by commenting briefly on one of the themes of the change of line after the Prime Minister's statements, namely the signs of overheating the perilous economy, which, according to the Prime Minister, in order to quote him, makes it extra necessary to keep the budgetary framework. And I fully agree with that. Then I hope the Prime Minister will do a better job than Stoltenberg did as Minister of Finance. In Stoltenberg's time as Minister of Finance, we had the worst example of cracks in the budget's underlying expenditure growth, from the budget was adopted if the harvest to the accounts were to be settled at the next turn of the year. It was actually a crack worse than the later Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad stood for, and it is important to keep the budget framework. And then I want to add: if you want to do something with a rate of inflation that, in relation to the rest of Europe, has just increased, there are two ways to do it. One is to do something about the budget, both the revenue side and the expenditure side. Only the increases in fees adopted in the budget for which the Workers' Party and Centre were responsible for the harvest will lead to an increase in prices of about 1 % in the current year. 0.5 percentage points. So it would have been possible to avoid 0.5 percentage points simply by doing something about the taxes, electricity taxes, diesel taxes, etc., and also keeping a tighter budget. So there could be a price rise rate in line with the growth at least in our neighbouring countries and in Europe too. The second option, of course, is not to do anything. Then the governor does what he has to do. And then the interest rate increases. And a government and a large majority, in this context the centre and the Workers' Party – now in some reverse roles – can risk taking responsibility for a rather strong interest rate increase, with the negative consequences this has for the Norwegian economy and for households, especially for those with newer and fresher loans. This is, of course, directly contrary to all the objectives of the distribution policy. When you listen to the debate that has been going on today, you can get the impression that there are going to be major changes due to a government change. I'm more in doubt. Does changing government also mean changing policies? Hardly enough in the short term, because in this debate most have actually underlined that there is a common basis between the Centre and the Workers' Party in an adopted budgetary agreement that is closer and more extensive than any budget agreement has been in this period. It is not an agreement that came about by voting subsidiaryly, but, to quote from the party leader at the time, Jagland, that means that the Workers' Party fully supports the agreement that has been concluded. The agreement also involves agreeing on future tax conversions. On one point, however, I would like to point out a flash of light. In foreign policy, especially in European policy, we now have a government that agrees with the policy they themselves are pursuing. I think that's an advantage. It is done with greater enthusiasm and enthusiasm than with a government that is pursuing a policy that it does not agree with Europe. I will give tribute to the Prime Minister for the very committed speech he recently made on the need for Norway not to delay in legal protection for patents – on living mechanisms as well. This Patent Directive is to be implemented on 1 August in all EU countries, regardless of what Norway is doing, probably also in the Principality of Liechtenstein – for the meaning it may have – and in Iceland. The question is whether Norway will stand out from this. Unfortunately, we do not affect the position of multinational groups on the use of the Directive. And I am aware that within the framework of the directive there are also significant opportunities to continue to impose ethical requirements, according to national guidelines, for research in these rather sensitive areas. It's important. Other parts of Europe's policy, too, I think, will now be brought with a greater degree of experience and enthusiasm from the Government, and that's a good thing with the Right's eyes. Right will have five important political checkpoints in relation to what the Government is doing, and in relation to the possibilities of bridge building also to the centre block. I'm stressing the block. After all, they have lifted the block policy, so the centre has included a block. The five checkpoints are the following – and I start with the economy, which I have so far been in: Balancing the economy, mitigating overheating trends, avoiding interest rate increases, avoiding inflation that requires tightening even harder in the next round is important. It is important for all of us, for distribution policy, for the security of households and for the security of Norwegian businesses and businesses. It is important that this is done without tax increases that further reinforce problems and provide unforeseeable framework conditions for businesses in Norway. Secondly, the Government must realise the intention to renew and modernise the public sector. In this area, Norway is lagging behind in most other countries. This applies to both industrial enterprises, where privatisation in Norway starts late, and to other non-industry public sectors, but where the need to modernise, renew, put off competition and compare different approaches to the realisation of welfare tasks is urgent. Thirdly, it is necessary for this government to have a higher ambition than the previous one in investing in education. School provision must be strengthened qualitatively throughout the whole chain from childhood to university/research education. Fourthly, this government must have a different answer than just talking about IT when we call for road construction investment. You don't transport fish on broadband. Fish must be transported on roads. District Norway and central Norway are screaming for road development, whether by classical public model or by new public private models in combination. Fifthly, this government has good ambitions. I show you, among other things: as regards the review of the Patent Directive, but also in other areas, research, development and new industries must be pursued. Norway does not tolerate many hacks after our neighbouring countries, such as Sweden and Finland, in stimulating IT companies, new business start-ups in new business areas. Several have been concerned with the need to build bridges, political consensus, also on the non-socialist side. I agree. Let me therefore quote something that I agree with in former Prime Minister Bondevik's contributions. He calls it a Christian-democratic ideology – I also know myself in the following quote – an ideology that takes ‘the starting point of the individual human being, and will build society around autonomous units in family and civil society’. And Bondevik goes on to say, ‘This means that we also place great emphasis on the resources that can be deployed in the community and non-governmental organisations.’ This is something there's a broad consensus about. Let me add from the Right side that if this view of society was to be completed, I can quote the following from the Right's new principal programme: ‘The multiple is neither alien nor transitory. It's come to stay. Norway is such. Right looks at diversity as a good thing. A society that respects people's right to live in harmony with its peculiarity offers more choices and encourages everyone to use their opportunities. If we maintain the balance between individual freedom and personal responsibility, pluralism gives growth in both spiritual and material values, both for society and for individuals.» I don't see any contradictions between the two quotes I've brought here. We should be able to stand together about both, if you also realized what Bondevik said in his post under point 6 in the long outline of good intentions: ‘The Parties to the Centre will pursue an economic policy ensuring national ownership of natural resources. National ownership shall be stimulated and business shall have predictable and competitive framework conditions.’;» I agree. Our criticism of the Bondevik government has not gone on this intention, but it has gone on lack of ability to do so. It has gone on that when a government says it will have predictable framework conditions, it sets up taxes in areas where it has promised to reduce taxes. It goes on that if you want to strengthen national ownership, it makes little sense to tax national ownership more than foreign ownership. When you want business to have predictable and competitive framework conditions, it is not logical to have such strict rules that the insurance company if, as a result of that, among other things. Storbrand divorced a business, was not allowed to establish himself in Oslo or Norway, but had to move to Stockholm. So the company that was established with Norwegian, Finnish and Swedish ownership does not have access to it in Norway because of our rules. There are no competitive framework conditions — just to mention one example.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e285	When Prime Minister Stoltenberg made his statement to the Storting yesterday, he was the ninth Minister of Workers' Party that did just that. Because we're at the beginning of a new millennium, I've taken time to look at the presentations made by our first prime ministers, Hornsrud in 1928 and Nygaardsvold in 1935. When I look at those presentations, there are two things that hit me. One is, of course, how much has changed. At the time, we had a class-shared society. The poverty of that time has been transformed into prosperity today. Difference Norway from then on has become a country where equivalency is prominent. It was a crisis settlement underpinned by the Hornsrud government, which had its declaration of accession on 21 March 1935, almost on the day 65 years before Prime Minister Stoltenberg. It was a crisis settlement based on social distress, lack of security and high unemployment. From there we have evolved into the land of opportunity. But there are also some similarities. The similarities are that the political objectives of the Workers' Party are biased: we place great emphasis on education, social action and solidarity, including between countries, and employment policy is still one of our main instruments, including to achieve other objectives. Ever since then, we have been using the public sector as one of the main means of achieving welfare development in Norway. That's exactly why it's so important when the government now says they're starting the process of modernising the public sector and putting one of our heaviest government councils on the job, in cooperation with the local government sector, which also has an important role to play, and where one has also put strong people into the job. It is absolutely necessary to modernise the public sector in order to gain more well-being out of the resources that one puts in. It is necessary to improve the provision of services to all, and it is important for us that the public sector provides equal services to the entire population. For us, it's still of great importance that the kids of the director and the kids of the worker go to the same high school and go together in high school. It is important for us that the provision of health should be equal for everyone. The day you need help, it's not the wallet or social status that's going to decide if you're getting the help you need. It is important for us that care for the elderly is an offer that is there on the day you need it, regardless of the social background you have. This is precisely why it is so important to strengthen the economy of municipalities, as the Prime Minister said in his statement, partly because the municipalities today have little resources to do today's tasks, but not least because we here in the United Kingdom have adopted important areas of action to be followed up in the future, which must be followed by funds. The main prerequisite for a strong public sector is good government and public finances. It provides security for well-being. And we're facing some economic challenges. For example, we have some problems that are initially pleasant – as the challenges to popular security. For the reason that the population’s fear is growing, it is to a large extent that many more are getting older than in the past. It's a development we want. Much of the problem is that many more than what has been common in the past have earned supplementary pensions when they change into an old-age pension. And it's a nice problem for the elderly to get a good standard of living. In addition, we have technical developments, for example: in the field of health, which calls for more and more resources, but resources are required because the development is moving in a direction where more and more people can get help for medical problems. That's why we're so busy keeping order in the economy. The most important contribution to having the economy we need to strengthen the public sector is that we have full employment, that there are many who contribute to the community. That is why the solidarity option is still important. After all, the overall objective of the Solidarity Option is to ensure full employment. It is not a discussion of inflation targets or fixed-rate policies, etc. No, the goal of Norwegian economic policy – at least if we get what we want – is to ensure full employment, and we will continue to work for that. To address this with a stable currency: I registered that Prime Minister Nygaardsvold already in 1935 said in his statement that it was important to ‘protect the economic life of the country from disturbances from fluctuations in monetary value’. That's very well said. It was especially well said in a country where a lot of jobs depend on what a person gets paid for the goods a producer sells them abroad. That is what currency stability is important for the export-oriented economy to know how to plan on the basis of safe conditions. In order to keep inflation in Norway under control, the moderation line and the efforts of the trade union movement have been significant. The moderator option has given small pay supplements, but it has given real wage increases because we have had price increases down. That must also be the goal in the future. However, it is important that the parties to the agreement, the employer’s side, the employee’s side and the country keep the agreement and do not destroy the basis for the agreement, for example: by cutting labour market measures, threatening the AFP scheme or threatening the health pay system, which we have seen some trends. It is a poor arrangement for a continued solidarity option. Worse still, what we see about the galloping leadership rewards. I am impressed that it is possible to understand so little of the importance of management pay for high pay demands in the next round. We've called the moderation line of collective reason. I would say that the trend in leadership pay in our days is evidence of the very opposite. An important contribution to continuing this line is the reform of continuing training — the right to continue training. It ensures jobs, it ensures the position of individual employees in a constantly changing labour market, and at the same time it must be done within responsible wage levels. Think of having such a responsible professional movement that they actually require additional training within the responsible payroll framework! That's something we're going to grow and strengthen. The biggest challenge may be financial policy. When oil prices are high and money flows into the treasury, it is difficult to explain that we cannot spend more money on many good purposes for which we are all for. But we know that if we don't make sure that we have a fiscal arrangement that tolerates oil price fluctuations, the bill comes in the form of interest rates and other problems in the individual's economy if the oil prices fluctuate. And the only thing we can be sure of is that oil prices are fluctuating. The budget must withstand those fluctuations. That is why I am pleased that the budgetary decision now underpinning the government of Stoltenberg is a budgetary decision that did not weaken a krone in the Stortinget compared to the government's draft budget. That's a good basis. The formation of government in 1935 was the result of the so-called crisis settlement. It was a minority government. Today we do not have a crisis, we have Norway. But we still have minority government. This means that we still need many reconciliations, and the basis laid down by the budget, with common positions on distribution policy, with other points of contact, especially between the centre parties and the Workers' Party, should provide a good basis for governing with the necessary conciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e320	I would like to take from two key points of the Government Declaration: raising minorities to renew and improve the public sector The central government has laid a good foundation for the new government in both of these fields. Let me give you a few examples: we presented the Equalization message, a message that the Labour Party would not initially have, a message that shows which groups fell behind the Labour Party's 1986 regime. Later, the Workers' Party came to a new recognition. It has been agreed to cooperate with the Centre to smooth out differences in Norway. I'm glad. We proposed five strategies: a more fair taxing a softer workline a more social housing policy better public services a more finmasked social security network Message is now in Size. It is a good starting point for an action plan to combat poverty in this country. We have already made some proposals in the current year's budget from the Equalisation Communication: funds for long-term pay cuts, local employment services and short-term pay. The Disability Action Plan Report contains 161 measures for greater equivalency for people with disabilities, including a separate plan to ensure more disabled work. We have taken the initiative of a selection to develop our own qualification support for immigrants, which will allow more new immigrants to work more quickly. We have also looked down on a public selection that has the task of reviewing the causes of the increase in the case of disability pension and the increase in sick leave, assessing current legislation and proposing measures. The selection, which is leased by Matz Sandman, has a deadline of 1 June of this year. In the anti-aliasing message, we also propose lower-definition tests than today. Modernisation of the welfare community is an initiative that was taken at the centre of the Adultås Declaration. In a separate subchapter, we announced concrete measures that were followed up later. I can therefore welcome you after! Users, local populace, added and voluntary sector gave e.g. advice was provided prior to the notification of care in 2000. This includes: the voluntary sector and the postponing of competition discussed. We believe Grandma is poor for supply, for outsourcing and privatization. We are particularly promoting organisational and leadership development, quality improvement and efficiency as alternatives. I refer to Norsk Kommuneförbunds Jan Davidsen's article in the March 15th, where he deepens the Sørum model, an attempt we have made in the care of 2000, and where the central party leader Ivar Egeberg in the company of the Kommuneförbund was a central player. The creation of 62 new volunteer centres is one of several examples of strengthening and stimulating the voluntary sector. The task-sharing selection, which the central government reduces in 1998, is intended to provide a basis for discussing the responsibilities and responsibilities of municipalities, counties and states. Public service offices, ‘Simplify Norway’ with their over 100 projects, the timetable for the escalation of mental health, the upgrading of social services and the attempts at user offices to improve the cooperation of social services, employment and social security systems, are examples of ongoing measures. Before Easter, proposals can be made for legal housing which ensures quality requirements and co-ordinates supervision in the care and care sectors. The harm caused by the increase in drug use did not appear in the Stoltenberg Declaration. Although the central government has doubled its efforts for treatment, much remains to be done here. The Nesvåg Group’s review of the treatment provision for drug users has been on the agenda and can be followed up against the Stortinget. A renewal and reinforcement of the drug-prevention work was under way. The central government, as I mentioned in the introduction, has provided a good basis for a better distribution, for a lift for minorities and for a renewal of the public sector. Is it in our direction Stoltenberg will now go? It says to look. If so, the Centre Party is focused on constructive cooperation. The Prime Minister has so widely spoken that his statements can still be interpreted as an invitation to the Right. That's understandable, because it was Right who inserted the new Workers' Party government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e373	At the turn of the millennium, challenges are in line. Although we are on the verge when it comes to well-being for everyone, many people still feel that they are not getting the help they need. Because it's easy that if not all kids get a good and safe childhood and a good school, yes, we don't have a good enough society. Nor is Norway a good country to live in unless a sick person is given satisfactory help. The community is also not good if not everyone at the age of reached gets a pension and a care that makes it possible to have a good life. What is a typical Norwegian characteristic is that basic welfare services are used by everyone. In our hospitals, both the stock exchange speculator and the donor get help, and in the school in the community, all children meet. Equality, honesty and understanding go hand in hand. That is why I believe that the main provision of welfare policy must be to give priority to measures rather than contributions. The need for municipal services will increase in the future. More elderly people need care, and increasing the need for knowledge and education will increase the demands for school interventions. Many municipalities have major problems. More people have a smaller population base than before, which in turn rents less tax revenue. It is then important that impact assessments are carried out on a continuous basis on the consequences of this for all measures. The trend in the school sector over the last few years has been the lowering of crossroads, and in the Bondevik government's time, many new private schools have been established that clearly do not have the same demand and the economic pressure on them. The worst example of the Bondevik government is today's look-up in the Evening Post that shows that former State Council Lilletun approved five new Christian private schools just before he had to leave the Council of State. Although there was nothing wrong with it formally, it was a little striking in a week when the government of Bondevik was in a difficult political situation. The working party will continue to work to improve schooling for students and teachers. by providing the class with multiple learning resources. This will also allow even more flexible and individualised training. In addition, local authorities have to increase the number of local authorities, as the government also announces in its declaration, in order to ensure that municipalities can do their part of the work for a better quality school. Here it is important that the state and the local authorities enter into a partnership to renovate our school buildings. It is easy where the important foundation is laid for our children and grandchildren to be of benefit to the human family. It is not possible to achieve a fair distribution without a good cooperation between the Centre and the Labour Party. In a knowledge-based society, there is hardly any other area where distribution policy is so valuable when it comes to the future possibilities for so many children, other than kindergartens and schools. One of the main problems in the development of the education society has been the right to higher education. The reform of continuing training has again addressed these issues on the agenda. Now, fortunately, we have passed a number of obstacles. The size decided in January that a system should now be established which gives grown-ups the right to demonstrate their real competence without having to go through testing arrangements. Conditions have now been created to develop a system in which a valuable real competence in the education system, as it is also valued in the workplace. The fact that a majority of the population has a certain shortening of study time when a long practice is behind them is based on the fact that one can no longer reverse these developments. I am pleased that the Government, in its statement, now announces a proposition that gives all adults the right to further training. Then the workers' movement will be crowned with hell. This will ensure that the nearly 30,000 adults who have informed that they want further training can get it without too long waiting. Education, knowledge and lessons learnt will, in the future, be even higher than today’s individual’s main competitive model for the labour market. Without education there is a greater risk of being weak in the knowledge society. Therefore, our education policy must be guided by a genuine willingness to give access to education to as many as possible. Only then will there be a provision for personal development, which thus contributes to the cultural development of the whole society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e394	Although at least a new Labour Party government was not wanted by the Progress Party, I still have to admit that parts of the government statement made yesterday by Prime Minister Stoltenberg were characterised by innovation in several areas – not least the message that the public sector should be renewed and that the key to this renewal should be in more service production and less administration. I take with the new Minister of Health's statement to the evening post recently that the overall objective is to meet demand and provide good health services to all, regardless of whether it is public or private that is behind – which is otherwise in line with the Health Policy of the Advance Party – I look forward to constructive cooperation with the Government in my field. It is absolutely necessary, especially in the operation of our public hospitals, to obtain a waiver and a concreteisation of liability, and to remove double administration and unclear responsibilities. Now, unfortunately, it's like this in political life, as I've experienced in the years I've been here, that it's a bit of a way to go from word to action. But I really hope that now we've got a management in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that can make this way much shorter than we've been used to so far. I can assure you that the Progress Party will make its capacity in the Norwegian health system as good as the Prime Minister expresses it in his declaration of accession, namely that the health service should have ‘capacity which is there when we need it’. Unfortunately, the 270,000 Norwegian patients who are currently in a state of health queue cannot sign the situation today. The health service was not there and is not there today when you need it. The first test piece on whether this government will achieve its own objective in its declaration of accession will be given quite quickly when the hospital economy proposition is due to be made at the end of this month. Very many counties have left aside their budgets pending the announced financial proposal, which, in my opinion, must include at least a proposal for an additional transfer to the hospitals for 2000 of at least DKK 1 billion. If our new health minister really believes something about a stronger release of hospitals, the previous government's proposal on a form of connection for public hospitals in the form of municipal hospital companies is not the right way to go. Our public hospitals are knowledge establishments with a high degree of innovative activities based on clinical research and medical-technical development. This requires rapid conversions and changes to the operating modes, which require short command lines. This requirement is not met by conversion into a municipal hospital company. I am very pleased that the Government Declaration stresses that the Government will actively invest in the development of genetic and biotechnology, and that Norway does not stand on the outside of this medical-technological revolution. On this issue, the Government can count on the full support of the Progress Party, which can thus provide a majority for development in the right direction. I have also noticed with pleasure a statement from our new social minister that she will take a closer look at the criteria that apply today to the medically assisted rehabilitation of drug addicts. I do not take my mouth too full when I claim that it has been the Progress Party that has led this case to the result that is available today. As early as 1992, I proposed methadone-assisted rehabilitation for drug addicts. Nor do I lean under the chair that there have been representatives of the Workers' Party so far in this period that have been the best supporters to develop this form of treatment to a greater extent, and they have always been positive when such proposals have been made. So finally, it's right, as suggested in the statement, that we have a lack of health professionals in some of our hospitals, but I don't agree that we have too little health professionals in total in the country. We have 10,000 nurses, at least, who are out of hospital service, and we have 50,000 help nurses who are in fractional positions, partly small fractional positions. There is better pay, better working conditions to recruit our own into the health care system and back to the health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e411	Family policy has never been discussed as much as since the centre of government in 1997. In the Government Declaration to the Workers' Party, family policy shines with its absence. The theme was only presented in one sentence: ‘That’s why we need kindergartens and welfare schemes that make it possible to combine work and family.’ Of course, the Christian People’s Party agrees that this is important, but it is a setback to link family policies only up to working life. Family policy is more than child care policy. Family policy is such an important theme that it is more remarkable than just being mentioned in a paper in the Workers' Party's Declaration of Accession. The 1997 Declaration of Accession of the Central Party pointed out that the family is the basic social unit of society. Furthermore, the centre party would give greater freedom of choice when it gave child care, increased child care, flexible working arrangements and strengthened equality. The central part of the world has, over the two and a half years we've been sitting with the government power, shown that this is the area we've been prioritizing. We've also got multiple numbers to expand child welfare to 18 years. It is a adaptation to today's real situation, where most young people take further education and are not active when they are 16 years old. Furthermore, fathers have been given independent rights to birth and adoption money, which we received broad support for at Stortinget. The cash support debate has been marked by ideological differences, and for the Christian People's Party it was important to get through to this family reform. But in order to give real freedom of choice, it is important that all families who want to do so can choose between kindergarten and cash support, or combination solutions. With the centre party's approach to kindergarten policy, there is reason to expect full childcare coverage for children over three years before the end of this year. The measures in the Kindergarten Communication will allow a full childcare coverage for children under three years of age by 2003. In the opposition, the Labour Party has asked a number of questions in the Question Time on kindergarten policy and criticised the child care message that the central government is raising. What the Labour Party will do in this area now that they're in position, we're excited about. The kindergarten message is a good document for a forward-looking kindergarten policy. Will the Labour Party build its policy on it? We have expectations that the Government and the new Minister for Children and Family have the power to act in this area and not just beautiful words. The working party is still talking about cash support being too expensive for society. This is not correct. If all the families that benefit from cash support preferred kindergarten, these funds would have taken advantage of operating grants to kindergartens instead. That's why it becomes a parody for me when the Workers' Party wants to use the cash support money for many different measures, including: to extend the permit regime. There is no point in the Workers' Party continuing to owe cash support when obtaining funds for good measures. A challenge that is urgent in the context of kindergarten policy is the need for better conditions for private kindergartens. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be an obligation for the municipalities to conclude cooperation agreements with the owners of private kindergartens included in the municipal kindergarten plans. The kindergarten message provides a more financially secure and more stable framework for private kindergartens. When the nursery sector is fully developed, the centre party wants a statutory obligation for municipalities to provide nursery facilities to all families who want it. It's important that we get a parental payment that's at an acceptable level. The intention to split the costs by 40 pst. State, 30 pst. on municipality and 30 pst. on parents, not satisfied in many kindergartens. In the main kindergarten message, it is suggested that a grip be taken to bring down the parental payment, e.g. by increasing transfers to municipalities. Today's parents give a high priority to associating with their children, but many people also focus on having good contact with their professional life. Therefore, the combination options for families with children are important. A forward-looking family policy is a flexible family policy, and the Christian People's Party will still fight for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e440	It was a good, visionary and forward-looking declaration of accession made yesterday by the Prime Minister. I am particularly positive about what the Prime Minister said about increasing the revenues of municipalities. It is also good that the Government will start work on cleaning up the responsibilities between state, county and municipality. There is a need for reform here. For several years, very urgent reforms in the care of the elderly, the health sector and the education sector have been carried out. These are necessary reforms to enable the welfare country to provide good and timely services to the population in the various sectors. The right-hand side of Norwegian policy has long created the impression that privatisation is the only solution to ensure that citizens receive good services. We recognise that not all public services function satisfactorily, but we have no faith that commercialisation will solve all problems. The thickness of the wallet shall not be decisive for people's access to service. However, a problem for more and more municipalities is the lack of financial resources to implement adopted reforms. Therefore, it is good that the Government will increase the income of the local government sector. There is a broad consensus that a more overarching management of objectives and results in the municipal sector is important in order to ensure a well-functioning local government. Local politicians must be given the opportunity to shape their own municipality. The free income of municipalities has steadily decreased in relation to the earmarked income. The objective of reducing earmarked grant schemes and increasing municipal economic autonomy must improve the provision of services to the population. The Labour Party will strengthen the public sector. It must also be through conversion and renewal. The public sector must be expanded and rebuilt. It's not to be built down. The solutions of the last century are not necessarily the solutions of this century. We need to get more control in large and small sizes. The service control shall be reduced and the production of services shall be built up. We're going to turn each stone to get more welfare services out of the resources deployed into the public sector. We cannot allow resources to be wasted in excessive bureaucracy and double administration. The needs of the inhabitants must be focused. The working party will build more kindergartens. We will contribute to the construction of more dwellings for young people, students and disadvantaged people. The Labour Party will create a better school for the children, better care for the elderly and better services for the sick. And then the Community and local authorities must be strengthened. The Government's Declaration of Accession states: ‘Good economy is ensuring work for all and fair distribution.’It also says: ‘The vast majority in our country have work, security and well-being. Our common task is now to raise the minority." In Norway today it is approx. 6000 to 7000 who are homeless. ==References== 65 pst. They live in the big cities. We know that this group is complex – some are in prison and some live at the hospital. We know that the link with the world of work is crucial in relation to having a good financial balance. But it is difficult to get work without having a fixed place to live. That is why housing is absolutely necessary. When we treated St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98, on housing for young and disadvantaged people, it was agreed during the treatment that a stepping-up plan should be set up for the construction of several reasonable rental dwellings. The budget agreement for the current year, as well as the fact that there is also an agreement to cooperate on solutions related to the Cohesion Communication, provides a good basis for us to find solutions that raise the minority. I am pleased that the head of the Centre Party, Odd Roger Enoxen, also today in the debate says that many solutions can be found at the intersection of the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. Politically, I believe that this is a prerequisite for the good development of Norway as a society of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e481	The right looks forward with keen anticipation to the Stoltenberg Government putting into practice the beautiful words and promises contained in the Declaration on the renewal and modernisation of the public sector. Of course, this is not about renewal for the sake of renewal. Conversions need to be made to ensure a better and more accessible provision of health and care for the population. I think the prime minister said something like that for some means renewal of privatisation. He said that it is not for the Workers' Party. No, it doesn't work for the Right either. Indeed, there is no talk of privatisation which implies that the public should give up responsibility. Of course, public authorities should still be responsible for ensuring funding and ensuring good quality of healthcare services. But we think it's less important who runs the hospitals, who runs the hospitals, who runs the homes, who runs the home services, or to say it to the new Minister of Health: ‘The overall objective is to meet demand and provide good health care to all, regardless of whether it is the underlying public or private.’;» He said this to NTB on March 19. To the evening post a few days later he said: ‘I am not a member of privatisation if it is considered that the health sector should be out of the public domain and left to private.’ No, I totally agree with him, too. This has been good right-wing policy for years, so we want more than the Workers' Party, and the new Minister of Health in particular, to join the team. But anyway, we're excited about the practical implementation of the promises. There are the results that count, and then it's worrying that after a few days of the new government's life, there has already been a significant discord within the movement of labour, not only between the LO people and the government's own people, but also between the various state councils. While at least I see the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health as the modernists, both municipal minister Brustad – yes, it was her daily newspaper a few years ago referred to as ‘a little Stalin’ – and social minister Ingebrichtsen give a much more traditionalist impression, as I see it. They're not happy to talk about competition and private solutions. The new Minister of Health has already, in a short time, been making history. I think he is the very first health minister from the Workers' Party who has not said that Norway has the best healthcare system in the world. No one has dared to admit before him. He has said that Norway should have a world-class health sector, and then he went on to say, ‘I don’t think we can say we have it today’. He said this to NTB. And with such a starting point, it will hopefully be easier to implement necessary and radical changes in the healthcare system, for so far, the Workers' Party has only reluctantly allowed itself to accept changes and modernisation, it is free to choose hospitals, legally binding rights to treatment or input-driven funding. So I have four challenges for Thin. Firstly, will he allow the state to assume responsibility for the hospitals, so that Norway can once again become a health state, and we will release the game and the disclaimer between state and state? Secondly, will he release the hospitals, so that they release daily political detail management, and can choose whether they will be municipal company, AS or anything else? Thirdly, does he want to fight to release private forces into the production of health and care services, even if he gets LO against himself? And fourth, does he want to improve the funding arrangements, so that hospitals get paid for what it actually costs to treat more patients? So over to the Social Minister, who I will make a call to release new forces into the care of the elderly. Let me ask the question this way: why, Minister of Social Affairs, should the elderly and the disabled not be given the right to choose a nursing home or who should help them in their own home, when patients are given the right to choose a hospital? If we are serious about increasing user control, we must abolish the municipal monopoly. It is nice to bet on the municipality's employees through motivation, schooling, trust and framework conditions, but that is not enough. It is only the day that older people and disabled people can choose between different services that user management becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e515	It is an objective of the Government to maintain a strong and resilient public sector. A society that is constantly changing, with increased knowledge, better communication and increased opportunities, will make demands for a public service offering that is being renewed in line with the changing needs of users. However, it is not surprising that the human and financial resources available to this country will be impossible to satisfy all wishes and needs. So we have to give priority. As the main manager of the management policy, my department has a special responsibility for managing the challenges in a good way. We therefore want to focus on the following main objectives: renewing administration in line with society’s requirements and citizens’ expectations of getting more out of public funds by implementing sectoral reorganisations and a general cost-effectiveisation to establish cross-sectoral cooperation patterns that put the user at the centre of transferring resources from administration and bureaucracy to service production to reducing state detail and regulatory governance in favour of flexible response under responsibility; In order for the public sector to continue to carry out its allocated tasks in a good manner, it is necessary to significantly improve the efficiency and efficiency of the way in which the tasks are carried out. Renewal of the administration is necessary to meet society’s demands and the expectations of the population about individualised services. The ability of management to adapt or change, especially in the case of managers, becomes particularly important for the management to be able to renew and meet the challenges. In order to bring about a renewal of the administration, we need to launch many measures in parallel. Yes, there are thousands of individual decisions that need to be taken. First a little bit about structural challenges. We have built up a comprehensive public sector in Norway. It is now time to look critically at the division of labour between levels of administration, in order to simplify the administrative apparatus and eliminate the duplication of functions between and within the three main levels of state, state and municipality. It is located among others. a potential for efficiency in bringing together the monitoring of local authorities at the county level, as well as improving the quality of supervisory tasks by prioritising the counties’ resources in the areas of society where they are most needed. Realising the efficiency potential of the public sector is a challenge. It is not likely that public exposure is too large, but it is obvious that it is spread in too many areas. This also requires that we be willing to look at the delimitation of public responsibilities and the division of labour between the public and private sectors and how these sectors can best interact with each other. The objective must be a service that serves the community best, not the interests of individual sectors or professionals. Here, attention must also be paid to the need for greater local freedom of action and the possibility of further decentralisation and less detailed management. We also need to look critically at central government. We have experience that overlapping tasks and lack of coordination are centrally easily propagated as problems for the rest of the administration and ultimately for the whole community. It will also be important to clean up the different roles of the country, for example as owner, regulator and controller, and to look at the division of responsibilities and tasks between departments and departments. The government will go through the state companies for clarification of roles and ownership. We will also ensure that it is cleaned up in the surveillance and control jungle. We cannot accept that the control business is taking full advantage of it. We have to delegate based on trust, not based on mistrust. To achieve this, we need to be willing to go new ways and assess new tools. There are different ways to expose and stimulate the public sector. In areas where public business activities currently have a monopoly, other competing players may be such an incentive element. We are sure that Telenor’s competitive situation has contributed to an improvement in telecommunications services, both in quality and price. Such competition shall not be at the expense of the Government's objective of equal access to services irrespective of economy and residence. The government has good governance to ensure policy objectives in the regulated sectors, including: through concessions and requirements for product quality. Public activities can also be stimulated and renewed without using market competition as an instrument. One can give users greater freedom of choice between public service providers. Public service production as a supplier must be able to compete to attract users. Similarly, comparisons of similar activities could create competition within the public sector. Experience from Denmark shows that this is an effective tool to stimulate the further development of own services. There have been relatively many changes in the form of connection and organisation in the public sector in recent years. Tasks related to management and business are increasingly distinguished and the roles of the service provider, supervisory and control authorities and the performance of the reindeer are strengthened. This process is necessary to continue. Delegation means that local level of activity which knows where the shoe is printing shall have the power to set up the service production optimally. It is important to best meet local user needs and get the most out of resources. This must be followed up by delegation of powers to the local level. These powers must be linked to resource disbursement, employment, organisational form and to an increased degree of locally adapted remuneration. Exclusion also involves changes in formal forms of association. This results from the transformation of administrative bodies into different forms of state-owned companies. We see an increasing tendency for public service production to be assessed on a company-organised basis. An example of such assessments is the proposal in the Stortingen on the reorganisation of hospitals. The advantage of this type of exemption is that the management expectation is clearly placed at the head of the business. This could involve more well-run enterprises that use resources more efficiently and that are able to change more quickly and respond to user needs. However, such changes require that managers are given the opportunity to take decisions without any detailed involvement of the parent body. We will make greater demands on the leaders of the general government. On this basis, we should consider areas suitable for contract management and the form of contract management that should be used is a discussion theme. A central element of contract management is the reward of managers and the unit for good performance in terms of renewal, conversion and efficiency, and, on the other hand, reactions when results are not achieved. The Ministry of Labour and Administration, together with the State Consultant, will strengthen the development and recruitment of managers. The aim of this work is to strengthen, inter alia: change management and competence to change. Moreover, the development of forms of work that trigger creativity and innovation should be central. There is a significant unrealised efficiency potential in a targeted use of IT both in terms of organisation and problem solving, in particular in terms of virtual service provision. An increasing volume of services can be provided irrespective of distance and opening hours, and the technology allows for extensive specialisation within the larger floors. We want to work for a ‘daily administration’ that will give users access to electronic information and services from the public 24 hours a day, seven days a week. One of the main prerequisites for achieving this will be to understand and accept the need for efficiency and conversion. If we're going to do that, we need to have an open and binding process where we're going to draw with all the employees, the employees' organisations, the users and the local people's elected representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e569	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e572	I think there were several interesting thoughts that the Minister of Administration had made, and I would like to make sure that I have understood the Council correctly. As far as I understood, he advocated a decentralisation of power and responsibility to the leaders of state or public businesses and that these leaders should have greater opportunities to make decisions and adapt their business to changing assumptions, and that this also includes significant elements of the decentralisation of wage-setting systems and the differentiation of wages based on the functioning of individual businesses. Let me use an example: a head of department at the Oslo Police Chamber and a similar head of department at the Arendal Police Chamber have, because they have the same title, equal pay and the same working conditions. One is responsible for 400-500 employees, the other is responsible for three employees. The Oslo Police Commissioner has just given a lecture in the Joint Organisation of Academics on the need for a more flexible pay system, adapted to the content of the business and not just the title of the civil servant. Is it correctly understood when the Minister of Administration now opens up to a significant degree of decentralisation also in the case of wage-setting based on an assessment of the tasks of each enterprise, and also the differentiation of wages according to the responsibilities and tasks of the enterprise and the size of the institution in which it works?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e577	Employment systems in Norway, whether private or public, provide a significant degree of opportunity for local adaptation through local negotiations. I've worked as a carpenter in my younger years. We had a performance pay system, but it was based on a centralized framework. So it wasn't just for us to determine the pay result in relation to the pace of work, but it was flexibility within a system with a centralized framework. It is clear that I am not talking about performance pay systems as such introduced into the public sector, but I am talking about that it will be more possible through central wage determination to open up frameworks that allow us to get local adjustment, and that there may be opportunities for the local government to pick up something if you have good earnings. One should bear in mind that we are talking about the reorganisation and renewal of a public sector which is largely not itself able to derive the result of the efficiency improvement. It is transferred to others to obtain greater service output. This means that we need to be concerned with the incentives that we can put in place to implement and motivate the various public sectors to review this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e586	The Workers' Party announced in its Government Declaration a modernisation of the public sector. Prime Minister Stoltenberg said: ‘Double red tape does not result in double well-being.’... ‘Detail management needs to be reduced. The administrative apparatus of the administration must be simplified.» The government will return to this state when the Task Distribution Committee's configuration exists, according to the government. The task-sharing committee was set up in 1996 and has thus lasted a very long time. The right hope is that the sample has used well for the long time and that the sample concludes that something needs to be done to reduce the number of administrative levels and public double administration. However, the Kosmo Council of State has also chaired a LO/employee party committee which has been involved in the modernisation of the public sector. After reading this position today, I do not expect too much of the modernisation process that has now been announced. But after hearing the statements of the Kosmos Council, it seems that he has now shaken off the half of the members of the committee who come from the Commune Union. Detail management shall be reduced and it is established that State control needs should be drastically reduced. I expect that the Kosmo Council of State, as the leader of this sample, has thought through how this is to be implemented in concrete terms, and thus can quickly come to the Stortinget with proposals for individual measures. What action will the Government take to meet this requirement? What control arrangements can be cut out? Can the Council of State today give examples of what kind of double administration can be removed? The right is eagerly waiting for the government's concreteization, but with the Commune League clamping our feet we fear that the changes will be less than it has now created the impression. Kosmo said in his post that thousands of individual measures need to be initiated. I'm going to be a messenger and I'm asking that the Council of State already mention four-five measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e602	I don't have time for that in the answer to a line. But we can keep going beyond the spring of the Questionnaire, so the representative can get one in every Questionnaire. I am concerned that we will get a good result from the work of the Task Distribution Committee. I expect the Task Distribution Committee to address the major problems and the major challenges that lie in having a society that has not only three, but – including the county – four levels of government, and that the sample looks at whether this is appropriate to the need of 4.5 million people, then, based on the position of the Task Distribution Committee, we will plan and make the necessary proposals to realise the simplification that we are going to have. But I have to take a very large distance from the suggestion that the employees should be a clamp around the foot of those who want to convert. I know a lot of employees in the public sector, and they work every day to do the best possible job for the users. What is our job, the Government and the Storting together, is to create a system that gives them the opportunity to exploit their skills and resources. I'm sure the local council is just as busy getting to like us. We just have to find the cooperation patterns that allow us to extract the resources and competences of the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e611	I agree with the Council of State that we want a strong public sector. We also agree that there is a need for a review, renewal and decentralisation of decision-making powers – greater local authority. Governments also brought with them all the honorary orders within modern management theory, about adaptability, change competence, etc. That is probably important, but he did not mention in one word what is perhaps the biggest challenge for the public sector today, namely recruitment – that is the biggest challenge we have, getting enough people to the public sector, so that the public sector is able to become a real bulwark against the privatisation we see. We lack people in the whole health sector. In the education sector, we lack teachers. We have a large proportion of teachers without approved education. This is in many ways the greatest danger when we see it in relation to the privatisation of the education sector and the public sector, so getting enough people – enough qualified people – is the biggest challenge. It did not refer to the Council of State in one word. We had a debate not long ago about teacher recruitment. There was a minority that had a concrete suggestion that we have to use the tool that can work to get more teachers into the education sector, and that is to use wages as a tool. Now I do not expect the Council of State to present its strategy for wage negotiations to spring, but in that debate, the Workers' Party used a term that went on a declaration of will to do something about wages, and the Council of State Lilletun, as at the time was the Council of State, stated that he understood what was in that concept – a declaration of will that something must be done to ensure teachers' higher wages. Can the Council say something about this declaration of will, what it contains, so that there can be a signal coming out to the teachers' groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e620	I agree with the representative that if we are to have any kind of opportunity to continue to benefit from welfare schemes, welfare schemes must be so good that people prefer them to expensive, private solutions. To do that, there are a number of instruments that need to be used. The most important thing is that the tool adapts to the needs of users. It's also a task for the public to make sure that we have not only enough people to perform these services, but that we have qualified people. In the case of a number of professions in the public sector, we see that we are going to have a significant need for a larger recruitment in the future. Here's pay one tool, but that's not the only one. Work environment, continuing training, flexibility, the possibility of going out in periods of life with heavy loads, then coming back, are also instruments. The representative was quite right when he said that I am not going to make any promises in connection with the forthcoming salary settlement. But I take note, and I also believe that wages are one of the instruments – one of the many instruments – we need to use in order to secure and secure the public sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e627	Greater transparency in administration has been a priority area of central government. It is also one of the areas where significant results have been achieved. It was particularly disappointing that the Prime Minister did not have room to mention transparency in the administration in one word in his statement yesterday. Even more so, the expectations of the inception of the Kosmo Government Council, which is responsible for the administration, were also in terms of transparency. Nor did he have the opportunity to say one word about this in his 10 minute post. It's very disappointing, and it's alarming. There is reason to fear that the lack of involvement of former labor party governments in this area will also be a feature of this government. When the central government took over, it had been waiting for two years for a notice of government disclosure. Six months after the government change, the message arrived. We've been given an increase in the number of yes when access to documents is requested, and as a result of this positive development, much more is now asking for transparency, because they know that the possibility of a yes is considerably greater than in the past. Transparency in administration is a democratic end and is part of the renewal and modernisation of the public sector, and I want to confirm that the Labour Party also sees it this way. My question is, will the central government's great commitment and high level of ambition in this area be followed up? And then I have a specific question: the Council of State pointed out that an increasing proportion of public services are carried out in different formations of companies. Is the Council of State open to review the disclosure law so as to increase transparency when public services are performed under company law which is not currently governed by the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e637	When, six months after it was taken over, the central government was able to present such a comprehensive communication of public disclosure to the government and the public in society, that means that it must have done a very good job of preparing the government that was there before. And in the same way, I have to say that I intend to spend all the good work that the previous government has done in my daily work. I'm not going to put it away because it was a center government that did it. Everything that's useful, we're going to take with us – but I repeat, everything that's useful! I'm too transparent in government, and I'm going to fight for us not only to practise the Public Service Act, but also to practice more publicity. After all, the size has a good opportunity to take the lead with a good example when the Public disclosure law is now to be applied to the activities of the Storting. I look forward eagerly to the guidelines drawn up for public activities through the comments made in the Committee on Public Health in Stortinget. I can guarantee that we will do everything we can to follow up the good intentions that are being promoted there. So to the last question, how are we going to practice the disclosure law within the different companies? First of all, we have to evaluate the form of the company, which company it is. It is clear that there are some rules applicable to public management companies and that there are other rules applicable to public limited liability companies. We must constantly be concerned that we should strive for the greatest possible degree of publicity, but at the same time we should not destroy the possibility of performing sensible business activities. We need to take responsibility for that balance, both government and big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e646	It was a question and a line of pay-fixing now. I'm going to try to stay away from the exact payroll that is now going to be started, but I still have a little basic question. It has been claimed by many that some of the difficulties in schools and hospitals have been that the trade unions have, for a long time, acquired the rights and opportunities to deal with the management of the business, so that it is difficult to improve efficiency, rationalisation and the necessary flexibility. Will the Council of State consider the thoughts expressed recently by Per Kleppe to consider specific negotiations with these organisations, outside the regular wage-setting arrangements, where it is impossible to do things because of the framework system? And will the Council consider opening subsequent negotiations on the core systems, rights and obligations of the current contractual system, so that, during such negotiations, some adjustments may be made, more flexible wage ladders, differentiation of salaries according to responsibilities and obligations, and see this whole problem in context outside the more ordinary wage settlement, how consideration for all other groups will be the tone-setting? And when the state council talks about stimuli in general, after several very useful years in the control committee – as I interpret it – the state council is well aware that the opposite may be necessary. If it's the same leaders in public agencies who repeatedly experience exceedances of 40, 50, 60 pst. of what they say should cost, we should perhaps have a system against them that imposes greater responsibilities, at the risk of being met with demands of responsibility for public sector managers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e655	Every day in Norwegian working life, in the private or public sector, about local adjustments, about working time arrangements, etc. The collective agreements, both for the public and private sectors, have openings for local adaptation negotiations. However, there may be questions as we move forward in the renewal process, such as adapting tariff agreements to tomorrow's challenges. Of course, it is a process for which I will take a primary responsibility on behalf of the employers. But in this game, of course, we should respect the right of the trade unionists, through active involvement in job design, to take care of their own interests, otherwise they would just be lacking. But if you go deep enough into this, the representative Hagen will see that those interests are common: Getting the best possible services for the users. The representative Hagen asked me about reactions. Yes, I said that in my post: if we are to develop a system of management wages on contract, and if you are expected to have special pay arrangements to take responsibility, you have to react the other way if you don't get results. I think it's perfectly obvious. Then it's not about adopting parachutes from private businesses, it's about having proper contracts where you agree on how to proceed if you fail.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e664	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e667	The Prime Minister, in his declaration, is committed to pursuing a forward-looking industrial policy that will provide the country with a good economy. This is conditional on our companies claiming to be at least as good as their competitors. This is the consensus of the Progress Party. Nutritional policy is important because it is the enterprises and the work that employees do, which creates the values that are absolutely necessary to pay for the well-being that we all want to be clear, regardless of the party. It is important that we think through this, that we ask the question: what is the basis for creating jobs, wealth, a good health care, care for the elderly, school and a better environment, all the things that belong to a welfare society? Well, it's that we have companies that run value creation. Only through competitive businesses do we have some security for jobs, and there are resources available to solve the tasks that we all believe a society should have. Globalisation and the migration of capital, without respect for national borders, have created a competition between nations over who can offer the best framework conditions, thereby attracting businesses, capital, competences and jobs. The party notes that Norwegian companies face a stronger competitive environment in this internationalisation process. Structural changes in our trading partners, competition from countries with lower wages and which have a different economic understanding and culture of business may lead to relocations, mergers or closures. Of course, there may be reasonable grounds why enterprises choose to establish themselves in other countries. Some will grow in their core areas and will make production more efficient. But when we get visible evidence that it is the framework conditions that force businesses and capital out of the country, conditions need to be remedied differently by the authorities. It is dangerous if head offices and research departments disappear out of the country on a large scale because economic conditions are better off. This means that the country is losing to important competitors who have changed their policies in a business-friendly direction because they have seen the importance of seriousness. In a globalised economy, it is becoming increasingly difficult for a nation to pursue a tax policy that is different from other countries. In two areas in particular, Norway pursues a tax policy that is significantly different from that of its competitors, and that of option taxation and wealth tax. Both of these areas are essential for activities in the new economy, for knowledge enterprises. The major weakness of the Norwegian tax system is that it has a much stricter tax than other countries in some areas particularly exposed to international competition. Therefore, amendments should be implemented without delay to ensure internationally competitive conditions both for the taxation of wealth and the option tax, as we see it. Now it's time to realize the actual conditions. The fact that Norway is located at the global edge of international business with a small domestic market of only 4 1⁄2 million inhabitants reduces its attractiveness. This is, of course, little to do about. If Norway is to be able to attract Norwegian and foreign investors, the framework conditions must be world-class. Where we really have the ability to do something is with the tax and tax system and the level. The Progress Party believes that we should be at the height of this area, and proves it through tax relief in our alternative state budget of nearly DKK 28 billion. We will not avoid adapting the tax rules to the new international reality. Founders and industrialists can no longer accept narrow national considerations. It must be clear that, without the necessary tax reliefs, neither foreign nor Norwegian capital will be enough to build up operations in Norway. That is what will be the main challenge in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e680	I agree with the Prime Minister that Norway is the society of opportunity, and I think most people agree that we have a good country to live in. The Prime Minister used much of the Declaration of Accession to mention those in our society who do not have all the opportunities available to the great majority. I'm glad the Prime Minister so pointed out the common task we have in raising the minority. The vast majority of the population in this country are doing well, but there are some who are not allowed to participate in the safe and good situation that society offers this majority. We have e.g. consulted on studies that reveal that many people cannot accept recommended treatment and medicine because they do not have the money to do so. Everyone sees good quality of life as the most important thing in order to be able to master everyday life. Some people have problems with this because illness or disability creates problems for them. Those affected in this way must not be penalised for being excluded from education and working life, and they must avoid using all of a limited income for prostheses, medicines and necessary services. We cannot live with a situation where sick people cannot receive recommended treatment for private economic reasons. This does not belong in a welfare state. In this context, the community must establish and ensure that all receive the necessary treatment and assistance, and the weak private economy must not exclude anyone from obtaining the services they need. New rules are urgently needed to improve the situation of these groups. This is mostly about distribution and raising the minority. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister has so clearly highlighted the importance of a labour market where fewer people are disadvantaged and sick, and where there is room for people with disabilities. We can't keep going with a situation where 9 pst. of the economically active population, there is a disability pension, where this figure only increases and increases. In addition, all those who have been diagnosed with long-term illness and who have little prospect of getting back to work. Work means a great deal to income and well-being, and the analyses in the Equalisation Communication make it clear that there is a difference in living conditions between those who are active and those who have to cope otherwise. Work also means a lot more than money. It means social contact with other people, it means the ability to use their skills and skills, and it means a better self-image for the individual. The community needs all the labour we can provide, and most of those who are currently insured have a desire to get a job that is adapted to their situation in life, and that they can master with the residual ability of which they possess. This must be facilitated in cooperation with private businesses and with public enterprises, and better provision must be made for those who want to set up their own jobs. Accessibility and overall organisation must be at the bottom of creating a labour market that better incorporates people with disabilities. I am also pleased with the Prime Minister's clear objective of renewing and strengthening the public sector. At a time when there is a high shortage of health professionals and many new and important tasks in the health and care sector, it is important to look at working conditions and how resources are used. Major sick leave and high permeability at different workplaces tell us that there is a need for renewal and change, and that this cannot be solved only through higher wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e701	Norway is a country blessed with rich natural resources in which we have traditionally lived well. I am thinking of industries such as agriculture, forestry and fisheries and more traditional industrial industries. At the beginning of this century, there has been much talk about the ‘new’. It is important to remember that traditional industries are still very important for the country. Agriculture is very important for many municipalities and for the settlement there, and is often the starting point for many new industries. Fish is the second largest export industry in Norway, and forestry is our third largest export industry for oil and fish. Farming has rightly been highlighted as a forward-looking industry. It is in the sea that the natural premonitions of Norway lie, and it is both right and reasonable that at the turn of the millennium we mark the fishing and aquaculture industry as one of the most important industries for the future. We have a thousand-year tradition of exporting fish from Norway. The industry has helped in a fundamental way to shape our economy and our culture. While oil and gas sources are being reduced and discharged, marine resources can be renewed and fish and other living marine resources could be a central source of the Norwegian economy and food supply in the world at all times. The increase in population growth means that the market potential of our seafood product will only increase. I would therefore like to express the hope that we will have to set ambitious targets for future developments in the aquaculture and fisheries industries – whether it be as businessmen, managers, researchers or politicians. However, our main source of wealth and economic development always has our people with knowledge and creativity. It was the fishermen's knowledge of travel and nature that led the fish up to the kitchen table. It was the engineers' insight into electricity and metal that made Norway a leading producer of healings, and it was the researchers' understanding of rocks and new technology that made it possible to extract oil from the North Sea. Within all industries, knowledge and competence are increasingly being told about our ability to solve common tasks. Technological developments have opened up new avenues for business development, cultural diversification and welfare measures. If we want to participate in this process and participate in shaping it, we need to make sure that we have the environment and people who are able to acquire, understand and apply new knowledge. I believe that new jobs will be created, above all, in new innovative and high-growth industries, often dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises. Within information and communication technologies and biotechnology, structural and technological changes are so far-reaching that they will create entirely new business areas. I hope, therefore, that the new government will follow up the important work started by the Bondevik government in relation to an innovative Norway. From an increased commitment to entrepreneurship in the school and the strengthening of a versatile tool to follow up the increase in research effort, as the government suggested in its communication, with a later connection from Stortinget. A bet on an innovative Norway, as the government of Bondevik emphasizes, is and will be a profitable investment in the future. It was in the Prime Minister's statement that some of the issues of education policy were partly presented as a new initiative. I strongly agree with the Government when it proposes the right to further training also for adults, but I would remind you that it has actually also been done by the government of Bondevik – and a number on the Stortinget, which consisted of the Centre Party and the Labour Party, have joined it. It also applies to some of the other bets. It's not to talk about who said what first, but it's to show that this was actually going on some things that we thought it was great that one goes on. And the Center and the Christian People's Party are committed to constructive cooperation in relation to an innovative Norway, both when it comes to primary schools, further education and research and development, or else. It is therefore important that we have an industrial policy that has both respect for and roots in our history, and that at the same time has the capacity to become innovative and a leader in the new globalised economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e718	Societal changes today at a greater rate than ever before. This rate of change is made possible primarily through the development of technology, especially in the field of information technology. What we see is that information technology enables technological breakthroughs in other areas. We see this clearly in biotechnology, where it is a prerequisite to be able to process huge amounts of data efficiently. An important consequence of technological development is that we go from commodity-based production to knowledge-based production. This is a development that really began during the industrial revolution, by machines taking over manual body work, first in agriculture, then in industry, and we are now seeing an increasing automation in the service sector. Thus, human labor is becoming more and more the result of brain power. It is primarily competence, creativity and skills that drive the creation of value in the knowledge and information society. This has several consequences. An important change is that the labour market goes from being a market where a seller and buys time to a market where a seller and buys knowledge. For Norway, this is good news. An increasing proportion of Norway’s population have higher education. We have one of the world's best-developed education systems, we have financial resources to invest in education in the years to come, and together this makes Norway very well equipped to meet the knowledge and information society. Norway is, as the Prime Minister said, the society of opportunity. Our challenge and our obligation is to seize the opportunities that have been given us. We do this primarily by focusing on education and research. We need to build an education system where the idea of lifelong learning is central. We have to get rid of the idea that education is a phase of life. Education becomes work, and work becomes education. We also need to actively facilitate skills-based business development. An important recognition is that the shortage lies primarily in the availability of the necessary skills, as the money follows the knowledge. One good example is Microsoft, which today has a quoted value of $500 billion. It makes the company the world's most valuable economic enterprise. The interesting thing is that the company had a small initial capital. It was the strategic competence of employees that provided the basis for the enormous development of the company's value. It is also the knowledge that today represents the value of the company. The value of the company's physical assets is only a fraction of the quoted value. The difference we see here is the value of the employees' knowledge, and not least the value of the brand name. This summary summarises the key components of the global knowledge society. The American Governor has used the term ‘the unbalanced economy’. What he saw was that the US gross domestic product had retained the same physical weight despite a formidable economic growth. Growth had come mainly in the knowledge industry and not in traditional industry. What we see is that knowledge has become the central driving force of the economy. This knowledge is unlike money in us. Knowledge is human. Therefore, economic development is no longer just about making the money thrive, people must also thrive. Quality of life is thus important for attracting and developing future-oriented business environments. Quality of life cannot be adopted, but we can work to develop interesting jobs, to create good kindergartens, a good school offer, a safe welfare offer and not least an active cultural life. The knowledge workers of the future will assess these conditions when choosing a job. We have to recognise that we are in a tough international competition to get and maintain key competences. We need a strategy to meet this competition. I am pleased with the signals the Government has given, and have faith that the Government will be able to develop such an offensive strategy. Norway is and will be the society of opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e746	I agree that we live in the societies of opportunity, and that the Government should be the servants of the people and listen to the will of the people. I'm sure the people will take advantage of the opportunities for everyone across the country. This does not happen if the government seeks alliances with the right forces, where the recipe is more market governance and less and less political freedom of action in the Storting. The last serious advance to have the right-hand ideas fully tested was rejected by the people in 1994. That decision we have enormous advantages of every day. The decision has not at all frightened foreign investors, as any fear. The societies of opportunity have become that way because people before us understood in time the importance that the results of rich natural resources and the work of peoples should benefit this society. The concession laws of 1917 and of recent dates decided that soil, minerals, forests and falls should preferably have Norwegian owners, that the oil on the base is ours, that the Norwegian company should have preferential rights on the base, that the fish up to and beyond a long coast are ours, that the fishing boats should have Norwegian owners. Such protective umbrellas have given us wealth, competence and jobs, and created the basis for Hydro, Elkem and many, many more important and fine companies. The Norwegian people will continue to have an effective strategy against the short selling of Norway. The Norwegian people require ownership of the business community with social responsibility, which takes into account employees and communities. The Norwegian people want protection from the most greedy owners who think the most about their own wallet. We have innumerable examples that the demand for people is like this, and that it's cross-political. Let me mention, for example, the people's reaction to the move of Ericsson from South Africa, and the new cases of Jären, where foreign owners will lay down profitable jobs at Polaris and DBS. We have very many positive examples of owners who show responsibility without such actions, who get diversity from their own employees and from society around them. The Centre Party will contribute to measures to stimulate good ownership that contribute to predictability, innovation and increased competence. The centre party will contribute to clearer conditions on the stock exchange, to strengthen the good ownership of family-owned enterprises and to stimulate employee participation. Both political decisions and positive signals from the country's management are needed to influence attitudes and behaviour, so that we get what ownership we want and need. Because the EEA Agreement has taken away some of our good opportunities to protect Norwegian value creation, state ownership has become more important. In the future, increased government involvement is needed both to contribute to innovation and to ensure that international headquarters are not outsourced. The Centre Party wishes to review the organisation and exercise of state ownership. The centre party believes it is a matter of course that enterprises where the state is a major owner should show greater social responsibility than other enterprises. A sale of Hydro Seafood abroad is not consistent with this view. There is a broad political consensus that the marine sector should be a field of activity and the industry that can take over from oil and gas activities. A continued Norwegian ownership of this particular company, which is regarded as an engine in the aquaculture industry, ensures that research, value creation and competence benefit Norwegian interests. Should foreigners be taken over here, the race is also set for further flagging in this industry. Then we will be able to experience that the local goodwill needed for further expansion within the industry is disappearing. I am pleased that the central spokespersons from the Workers' Party share the same view and that they also want Hydro's sales to foreigners to be stopped. There are many examples that very good opportunities have become a wall of opportunity. Such a situation can also be experienced by us as a nation if the country's economic situation is perceived as so good that the need for innovation and hard work is forgotten, if the gains come from those who already have the most, and if the opportunities for profit are sold and flagged out The government's message must be clear: we need innovation and increased value creation. Everyone has to participate, and everyone has to get a fair share of the winnings. The greedy ones must be stopped. The previous Minister for Fisheries, the Center Party Lars Peder Breck, had as a strategy to raise the value creation potential of the aquaculture industry. This strategy was firmly anchored in the scientific community. The previous Minister for Fisheries set out a line of cooperation in relation to other industries and other social interests. It is particularly important that aquaculture should be able to become an environmentally sound industry in the future. There is reason to hope that the central government’s strategy for value creation and cooperation will be further pursued by the new government. Finally, I would like to express great concern at the fact that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have referred to the EU Patent Directive only in the light of the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. I hope there is a more nuanced debate in the Labour Party, and that Norway will work to ensure that the precautionary principle is implemented on such issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e769	It's beginning to be a few years since I allowed myself to name what has traditionally been the opposition's debate, the persuasion debate, as the opposition's debate. It was a product of parliamentary relations that has gradually grown up and has made it common to minority governments. In fact, during today's declaration debate, I think we have gone a step further. For its part, the Government and the Government Party have openly invited all parties in the Stortinge to cooperate. This invitation has been received quite well by many parties in Stortinget as far as I have been able to register it. And that's actually also good according to what has been the practical cooperation conditions in many important matters, and not least in the distribution policy, in the last years, and that culminated in the budgetary cooperation between the three then government parties and the Workers' Party last harvest. I don't want to be so imaginative that I'm going to draw that reasoning too far. From the Labour Party we know that there are many demanding balances in Stortinget. We know that there will be a fight over some things. But we also see, and it is promising in this context, that there is a strong potential for sensible cooperation in many of the most important areas of policy. The more surprising it is maybe that we also see a rare hard border draw between the opposition parties. Now, of course, it is not unnaturally so soon after there has been a cabinet question in Stortinget and a government has fallen, that this ghost behind many of the posts being held, and from several sides. But I think there are some of these borderlines that you shouldn't exaggerate, because then you're going to get hurt to put the limit in the wrong place. Environmental and energy policy, I think, is such a field. The dispute over gas power plants was a dispute over how it was most realistic to believe that Norway could contribute to reducing the growth of CO2 emissions and thus to climate problems. One view showed that the construction of gas power in Norway alone will increase emissions in Norway. The second view, also with several realisms, indicated that the construction of gas power plants in Norway in a deficit situation could dampen the import pressure we would get from more polluting sources of power out there. It is legitimate to have different views on this, but I don't think one should exaggerate that this is the dividing line in Norwegian environmental policy, although I realize that it has a number of symbolisms. And that was not what the government asked cabinet questions. The government asked cabinet questions about a change to the pollution law, and under assumptions and in a form that could give a highly unclear result. But the dividing lines here are going between those who see CO2 emissions as a problem and those who don't. And the attitude of the Committee on Energy and the Environment shows very clearly where the distinction went, namely that the Progress Party does not see CO2 emissions as a problem at all. And when that's the constellation of government parties and the Progress Party, which, during a vote on a cabinet question that didn't go on this question, but on another one, that became musculoskeletal – if you overinterpret it as an environmental policy issue, I think you get completely out of control, because here the solutions will probably still be at the intersection of the Workers' Party, SV and the middle parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e783	‘Norway is the society of opportunity’ — this is how the new government opens up and ends its declaration, and it is impossible to disagree with it. Norway is obviously also the country of political opportunity, because it has suddenly entered into completely new and unexpected climate alliances, in several senses of the word, during this debate, and it promises well in terms of cooperation opportunities in the future in the United Kingdom. A former government council in a labor party government, Gudmund Hernes, led a public investigation on the Norwegian university and higher education system ten years ago. There he wrote a sentence that has burned into my memory because it's unusually well formulated: Norway's biggest challenge is that today we don't get almost it out of the population's total talent and resources that we could and should get. I hope that this is the same recognition that lies behind the new government's formulation of Norway as the country of opportunity. But then it surprises me a little bit that the government obviously attaches great importance to the fact that there is a need for some deregulation, a certain diversity of the public sector in general, that there is a need to reorganize with a view to making greater efforts, but not in a single word mention that the same applies to our education system. Because if there's any area where it's obvious that we don't get enough out of the human resources, it's our school and education system and, let me add, our research system. Now it is not long since we in Stortinget dealt with a national research report where the Right Party and the Workers' Party were jointly the drivers to raise the level of ambition. The size decided to ask the Government to return to the revised national budget for spring with a concrete escalation plan in terms of how to reach the average OECD level in research appropriations over the next five years. The Right Party and the Labour Party also agreed that the revised national budget should provide a concrete escalation plan for bringing the research funds up to a level of DKK 10-15 billion. I have to say that I look forward with great anticipation to the Government now enthusiastically returning with a response to the task that was assigned to another government, and that gives me reason for considerable optimism about the opportunities to get to the demanding bet that is necessary both on our education system and on our research system. And let me say from this pulpit: it shouldn't be on the right if the government wants to get such cooperation and such a commitment. Let me also add that I noticed that in his declaration of accession the Prime Minister quoted one half of the Labour Party's main slogan in the election campaign last year. The main slogan was: ‘Work and education shall pay off’. In the Declaration of Accession, it was shortened to ‘Work shall pay off’. Now you have to be careful to put too much into silence, but I think it would be interesting to know from the government if you still mean what you meant in the election campaign last fall, that education and work should pay off, and in that case what practical consequences you intend to draw from it. To give a very specific example: I have registered with pleasure and with great recognition that both of our two major teacher organisations have now actually gone out publicly and declared that they recognise that they need to shift their own wage policy towards the effort-based pay system. And then it would be a paradox – when the teacher organisations have come to that recognition – whether the political system should not follow that recognition, because it is perhaps the most important key to a good education and research system that we get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e798	Norway must be a leading country in environmental policy. At national and international level, we are committed to reducing emissions that affect the climate, protecting biodiversity and limiting the use of substances that are hazardous to health and the environment. We're going to be drivers in securing cultural memories and facilitating an active outdoor life. The continued fate of the Kyoto Protocol depends on the outcome of the Hague Climate Change Conference held in November this year. It is crucial to achieve a result that allows a sufficient number of countries to ratify it. The government will work actively to reach agreement on a good regulatory framework for the Kyoto mechanisms, the new generation of environmental policy instruments, international quota trade, joint implementation and the green development mechanism. We also need to put in place a system to ensure that the parties comply with their obligations. In order to ensure the rapid entry into force of the Agreement, it will be important to strengthen cooperation with developing countries. We will play an active role towards developing countries in the process and increase efforts in climate cooperation with central countries such as China and South Africa. National instruments also need to be further developed in order to achieve more cost-effective measures at home. The recent State Pollution Control Action Analysis shows that there is room for significant national emission reductions to moderate costs. The government will follow up on the setting of a national allowance system in the light of the signals given by the Storting processing of the energy message and developments in the EEA territory. I have noted that the European Commission has produced a Green Paper on quota trade on 8 March this year, in which opportunities for cooperation are kept open throughout the EEA. I will quickly follow up this invitation for closer cooperation with the EU. Today, national quota systems are being investigated in our neighbouring countries Denmark, Sweden and Finland, and several other countries have started similar processes. In addition, the opportunities for regional quota trading systems were explored in the Nordic region. We will also actively follow up this work within a Nordic and regional framework. The Government will follow up the decision of the Storting on the conversion of the emission permits granted to the two gas power plants envisaged. I'm doing this, and the work will have a high priority. I want to provide Stortinget with the necessary information about the work. The Government will further set up a new programme for the development of gas energy abatement technologies and will intensify the commitment to renewable energy. The loss of biodiversity is a threat to sustainable development. Therefore, the Government will follow up the UN Convention on Biological Diversity with a focus on cross-sectoral responsibilities and concrete actions. This is what we become at the forefront of international sustainable management of the biological resources that are the basis of our lives. In recent decades, quantities and numbers of chemicals in products and in production have increased at risk. A large proportion of the hazardous chemicals introduced into Norwegian nature come from other countries. Therefore, international work and work on raising environmental standards that apply to the EEA area are so important. When the Jagland Government’s Communication on Environmental Protection Policy for Sustainable Development was addressed, the Stortingeet adopted clear objectives in this area. The government will work to reduce both the extensive use of hazardous chemicals in products and emissions from Norwegian industry. In addition, we will work towards strict regulation of the use and release of hazardous chemicals by the EU. It is also necessary to adopt binding international agreements for the most serious chemicals. It is becoming increasingly important to take care of remaining open air areas. This applies in particular to green lungs in cities and agglomerations. It is also necessary to ensure the right of the public to freedom of movement in the off-road area and to ensure good availability in the coastal zone. The government will follow up in these areas. We will assess the objectives and instruments of a modern open-air policy that focuses on health and quality of life for all. Work on air quality and noise is important here. Our history shows that humans have the capacity to create more by means of less through the increasingly efficient use of labour, knowledge and capital. Similar changes in environmental efficiency are needed. We need a "Fine for the Future".
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e819	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e822	In the context of the energy communication process, much of the debate concerned emissions of the so-called greenhouse gas CO2. A lot of the energy debate on 9 March was also concerned with legal issues relating to some of the proposals that had been put forward in the case. In a letter from the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs on the legal issues involved in the energy communication and gas power issues, there was uncertainty and doubt about the legality of the proposals I and II, and on that basis we voted against the two proposals. We believe that a reasonable solution to the problems of using Norwegian gas for power generation in Norway must be to remove CO2 emissions from the pollution law. Of course, this does not prevent the implementation of CO2 emission limitation by imposing charges on such emissions or by introducing an emission conversion system. But we believe that there is no basis for this at this stage. So the most sensible thing to do now to get ahead of the matter is to change the pollution law, which we have proposed, and which is being treated here in the house. I expect the Council of State to get an overview of the decisions taken on the energy issue, so I am not going to spend time referring to the settings I and II, but does the Council of State see any problem in implementing these decisions, for which there is so much legal uncertainty? And what will the Council of State do to make these two decisions effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e829	The main objective of the government's climate policy is to contribute to the reduction of emissions of hazardous greenhouse gases, in particular CO2. As part of this policy, the Government will follow up the Storting decision to open up gas power plants in Norway by revising the emission permits for potential gas power plants in Norway. We build this work on doing so without changes to the pollution law. In these days we go through the possibilities we have to follow up the decision of the Storting. In a short time we will decide for a run, but we will carefully consider all the aspects of this case. I will come back to Stortinget with the necessary information so that the decision of Stortinget can be followed up in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e834	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on an interesting and offensive attitude to the major environmental challenges facing Norway. That's a good promise. I look forward to the continuation and not least good cooperation. Just as in the debate on the public sector and economic policy, we see some of the same distinction in environmental policy between those who continue to look at environmental policies such as straws and oats and those who are engaged in a modern environmental policy, focusing on international cooperation, on getting the most environment for each krone, on research and development, and, not least, on taking advantage of the growing willingness to take on environmental responsibility that is also in industry. When the Syse government in 1990 focused on the major environmental challenges in the Kola peninsula, it was seen as a new job. It focused on international cooperation and, in particular, cost-effectiveness. The starting point was if you were going to spend $300 million. kr to reduce sulphur emissions in the industrial town of Nikel. The right has stated on several occasions that we are very dissatisfied that later governments have not followed up this work with an equally offensive attitude that the Syse government had. In the 1999 budget, the Committee on Energy and the Environment opened up 300 million. kr could also be used in other areas of the Kola Peninsula to reduce pollution. This is a major environmental problem, not only in North-West Russia, but also on the Norwegian side. I hope that the new Environment Minister will address this challenge and ensure that the money is not just spent, but invested for the benefit of the environment in North-West Russia and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e845	A modern environmental policy must be based on the fact that there are few areas of environmental policy where national instruments are sufficient. Local Agenda 21, where municipalities, organisations and businesses play a role, also has a global perspective. There are many areas of environmental policy that have both an international and a national perspective. Modern environmental policies need to work hard to find better international instruments. As part of this modern policy, it belongs to strengthening our cooperation with Russia on the environmental side, and the Government will immediately address how environmental cooperation in the Kola Peninsula can be improved and strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e850	Now it is a well-known matter that it may not be appropriate to build gas power plants in Norway for a long time, because it is simply not profitable. But just as fully, Norway will face a serious challenge in terms of reducing the climate emissions that we will at least get. Norway has undertaken through the Kyoto Agreement to reduce greenhouse gases that exceed 1 pst. above 1990 levels, and in 2010, the situation will be that the emissions we have in Norway will far exceed this level. So it's a big challenge for Norway. It is not useful to say that this can be solved by demonstrating that there will be any reductions in emissions in other countries. Besides, if we have an international allowance system, it won't be able to take more than that. 50 pst. Of them, this is what we're talking about, and Norway is at all costs ahead of a big task in order to deal with the problems that the international community has actually been trying to solve. Now I heard the Council of State mentioning measures, but I have to say that there is a need for a more firm action to achieve the goals set by the international community. I want to ask the government if the government will soon come back with handy plans on how to meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e857	I fully agree with Agent Dale's description of the major challenges we face in reducing emissions of climate-depleting gases. Whatever the issue of gas power plants or not, Norway will depend on a strong national programme, but above all an international programme if we are to manage this. We need to do our part of the job of facilitating new clean-up technologies, energy savings and a national quota system. But the most important thing we can do is to get the Kyoto mechanisms, these completely new instruments of environmental policy, into place on the international stage, so that there can be international cooperation that can reduce climate change emissions. This is not something Norway can do alone, but Norway has a major task in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e864	Let me start by congratulating the Minister for the Environment on the job and wishing him luck. There will be many challenges for her in the future. We don't have to do this in an SV system at least! The Minister for the Environment says that Norway should become a ‘precautionary country’ when it comes to environmental policy, while representing a party seeking cooperation with the Right and the Progress Party in the major environmental issues. One has an explanation problem when it comes to being a ‘precautionary country’ in environmental policy while working with the Right Party and the Progress Party towards the SV and the Environmental Movement. It will be a difficult job for you, Minister for the Environment! I'd like an explanation for that, if you've thought about it. In the debate on gas power plants, Prime Minister Stoltenberg has been running for periods at these ugly Danish coal power plants. But lately he's come up with something even smarter and talk about the Polish coal power plants, which are, like, even worse. They make us think about Eastern Europe and heavy smoke clouds and sulphur and ash and everything possible for it to be credible. Yeah, yeah. Yes, yes. I don't think there's going to be any cleaner Norwegian gas force on that argument. My starting point, Minister of Environmental Protection, is therefore in relation to the arguments they use when it comes to reducing emissions: should we not go through the argument, so that both opponents and followers could obtain an account of how these Norwegian gas power plants would actually reduce emissions, as the Labour Party argues? Getting in touch with an arrangement – an independent arrangement – should certainly be a good way to start the job as a Minister for the Environment, so that one is sure that one has real and good arguments when working for Norway to become a "precautionary country" in the environment together with the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e875	The President will remember, sir. Langeland's calling for the speech to be directed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e879	I thank the President for reminding me of that, once again. I got a little engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e884	The president assumes it won't be the last time either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e887	Norway has, in many respects, been a leading country in environmental policy, and we still have to be. We need to pursue an even more active environmental policy. I will not pursue any environmental policy against either the SV or the environmental movement. We disagree on one issue of environmental policy, namely how the possibility of building gas power plants in Norway could have an impact on reducing emissions of climate-threatening substances. We have a great job ahead of us in Norway, national and international, contributing to binding agreements in this area. We have a big task nationally in terms of getting an allowance system in place. We have a big task ahead of us in cooperating with the EU system in relation to trade in quotas, and in that work I am absolutely sure that we will come back to clearer definitions of reduced emissions in other countries connected to the policy we are pursuing in Norway. I am delighted to cooperate with everyone who wants to progress in environmental policy, on this very point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e894	The main project of the new government is to be modern. It is a supporter of the Government's declaration that it should be on the side of the future and be so. In the field of the environment, it will be extremely challenging, because there is no area where, to the extent possible, Norway will be able to invest in technology, innovation, innovation and market forces, if you want to think in a holistic and European context. I see that's how the government wants to think. In these broad lines — thinking forward, thinking internationally — the Left also thinks. Now it is well known that my party believed that the sitting government chose to look back in the gas power case in the pointed situation we had in Stortinget. I'm not going to take it up again, but I'm going to deal with the Workers' Party's own premises. The Workers' Party's own premise for its gas power position is that the gas power stations they will now create – very quickly – will be positive in an international context. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether, in order to be absolutely sure that this is a wise assessment, a new and thorough study on Norwegian gas power plants will really reduce European CO2 emissions, and in a time perspective as monks, until 2025, and without this stopping alternative energy development during the same period. If the Council of State wants to do this, she can acquire legitimacy in the area of conflict that was the basis for the formation of the Government, and she will also show that the government that has acceded dares to let its own arguments be tested by independent expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e901	What the government is now doing is looking at how we can change the emission permits granted in connection with the permit for the construction of two gas plants in Norway. In further work on this and in further efforts to reduce emissions of climate-damaging substances, the Government will look at all possible instruments, national and international. We will now work in particular in the international field towards the Kyoto follow-up in The Hague. We also want to work with the national quota system, we want to work towards the European quota system just to get a clearer link between the policy we have in Norway and the contribution this will make to the environment and to reducing emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e906	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e909	Yesterday's declaration of accession by the Prime Minister contained positive elements, as others have commented earlier today. But in many areas, the statement was, then, chemically pure for visions and views. This applies, inter alia, to: Defense. I am pleased that the Prime Minister pointed out our close historical ties to the United States and that this was important to build on. But otherwise, the few lines that were mentioned about defence, words and speeches that a prime minister of any party could stand by. That may be good and good, but otherwise the presentation lacked quite concrete elements regarding visions of the defence. The Prime Minister stresses that we should participate in the further development of NATO and European security policy cooperation, and that is easy to agree with. But the visions of national defence are totally lacking, and that's exactly what everyone employed in the Defense, military as civilians, and all the communities around the country who depend on and are most affected by the presence of the Defence are occupied by. In fact, St.meld says. No 22 for 1997-98, or the long-term message it is called, some of it. But much in this message adopted by the Storting, the previous government did nothing with it. On the other hand, there have been various messages, not least from the top military team, which undermine the message in many ways and which have shown little long-term thinking and created considerable uncertainty among defence employees and the communities that may be affected. I had hoped that the Prime Minister's statement would have helped put in place. But I've been very disappointed, and I think all the stakeholders have also been. The long-term message, which has not been followed up, contained e.g. clear opinions on the visibility of the defence and the importance of the visibility of the defence in all parts of the country are highlighted. The Workers’ Party’s members of the Defence Committee – including today’s Minister of Defence – have been involved in this process of adoption. Take, for example: the discussion within the defence around the Eujemo. Here, in the context of the long-term announcement, the Stortinget has decided that the Evjemo will be a force centre for defence in the South-West and will also be assigned new tasks. Recently, despite this decision, the Defence Chief Executive stated that the Eujemo should be closed. For example, the long-term message says: also related to the Marine Defense War Stations, including: that Marvika War Station in Kristiansand shall pass and be assigned sufficient personnel to act as an allied and national fully operational station. The defense's top management has recently stated that Marvika War Station is to be closed. I could mention several examples of how the defense's top management obviously does not respect Storting's decisions. I experience this as a result of frustration over small appropriations and hard saving requirements. However, this also greatly contributes to the spread of uncertainty among employees and stakeholders and contributes to the transfer of highly qualified personnel to other activities and thereby to the weakening of defence resources and competences. This must be done as soon as possible. I am pleased with the appointment of the new Minister of Defense, whom I have learned through the committee work during this period to be a capable and willing person, and I hope he will now be involved in contributing to the return of the defence to balance. If he is willing to do so, he will receive unconditional support from the Advancement Party. It is important to stress that the primary task of the Norwegian defence is to ensure Norwegian sovereignty by demonstrating credible national defence capabilities. It is the national defence that is the most important function. It is well and good and not least right that we build forces to participate in international operations, but the most important task of the defense will always be to defend Norwegian territory and nationality. More concentration around our national defence and more predictability must be the first contribution of the Minister of Defence and the Government to the Defence in order to bring peace to the ranks. Defence is one of the largest jobs in the country, possibly the largest. I am therefore surprised that the Prime Minister in his statement has said so little about the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e924	The oil and gas deposits are our common property and must be managed so that they benefit all the people. State ownership, in addition to the tax system, has been crucial to securing the Community's revenues from the petroleum industry. This has made it possible to secure employment and extend our well-being. State ownership has also been important for the development of oil companies with ownership anchoring in Norway. At the same time, the participation of foreign and private companies has contributed to the skills and technologies that have been crucial to the creation of value added and thus also to the Community's revenues from the petroleum industry. Petroleum deposits are our common property. The state must therefore continue to be the foundation of all the resources, and they must be managed to benefit the entire people. This includes, inter alia: the tax system and the State participation in the petroleum industry are designed to ensure the income of the Community. Changes in the participation of the country may only be accepted if this increases the value creation of the community. A better organised and more efficient management of the country's direct financial involvement can provide added value and contribute to the development of the Norwegian oil and gas industry. Therefore, the Workers' Party will enter to transfer SAD shares to Statoil, either through sale or through increased equity. This can contribute to a strong and competitive Statoil. Hydro should also be administered to SEDØE fractions. It was established that changes in the participation of the country can only be accepted if it increases the value of the community. Efforts for alternative energy sources must be stepped up. Natural gas will play an important role in a more environmentally friendly energy policy. There are today a number of good projects for the introduction of natural gas. In an introduction and development phase, public support will also be required. The Workers' Party will have an offensive policy in this area and will give natural gas a greater place in the future energy supply. The working party believes it is right to start the process of stepping up the introduction of natural gas already now. The World Bank is setting up a pioneer project for greenhouse gas emission trading where investors in developed countries finance specific greenhouse gas reduction projects in the Third World through the purchase of emission permits. It is important that Norway participates in the World Bank's carbon fund, and I point out that it is included in the budget agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties. Eight million. NOK 6 million. kr in the commitment mandate for 2000 above the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. The working party has noted that competition for land in the coastal and coastal zones is increasing and that people’s opportunities to use these areas are under strong pressure. It is important to strengthen the work of securing the coastal areas for free movement, and I would like to point out that increased funds have been put into this work. Norway has great opportunities to supply energy from renewable energy sources. It's important that we use the opportunity to be ahead of development. We have previously supported a comprehensive development programme to stimulate the development of renewable energy sources. In order to facilitate a more versatile energy supply, we believe that energy planning should be used more actively both at municipal and municipal level. Spatial planning and collective heat planning are tasks where municipalities have to play a more important role and where e-works should participate. In this work, municipalities and municipalities should place greater emphasis on energy efficiency improvement and the use of renewable and local energy sources, including waste heat, bioenergy, heat pumps, etc. Int. S. No 150 for 1997-98, a majority considered that they were about 0.3 ears per day kWh currently placed at the top of the transmission tariff should be made mandatory. We also believed that this proposal could be used moreto support direct investment in an increment and heat pump technology. In the same setting, it was also pointed out that they should be assessed to a greater extent from the energy companies. We believe that this is a good starting point for further work on theorganisation of the ecosystem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e950	When Prime Minister Stoltenberg was going to read out the names of his new government councils, he titled Trond Giske as Minister of Education and Research. So someone wondered where the minister of the church had gone. I guess it was a forgetfulness. As a result, some tension was attached to what the Declaration of Accession would contain about the Church. But when the word church was not mentioned there either, it must be allowed to ask if the government at all has a church policy. Why is this completely absent? It can't be because it's not a current theme. Minister of the Church Giske limped when he was appointed, into a minefield, and then to return. To express the views of the Labour Party on the Church's internal affairs is one thing, but also a minister of the Church must show respect for the Church as a religious community. When you want to change the Church by means of the state apparatus, important principles of freedom of mind are at stake. You can't make the Church change theology with legal paragraphs. The Christian People's Party hopes the Workers' Party government will continue the independence of the Church that is in progress. This applies, inter alia, to: to grant the Church freer framework conditions in its financial management and to give the Church its legitimate ownership of the Church's properties. Protest and episcopal appointments should also be transferred to the Church's own organs. From the selection working on the Church's baptismal training, a position that the Christian People's Party looks forward to later this year is expected. Today, it is often so that immigrant children can learn more about their faith than Norwegian baptized children can about Christianity. Some people think that new cultures are a threat to our own thousand-year tradition. But what can be a greater threat is that we do not take our own faith seriously. It is therefore necessary to strengthen duplicative training. A quote from the government statement is: “People want freedom of choice.” Yes, exactly! I fully agree with that. People are parents, too. And I'm not thinking about cash support now, I'm thinking about schools. If some parents want their children to go to private school, they must have a chance to do so. Here, a government council must follow Norwegian legislation, which says that parents must have their right to choose their children's assignment, as laid down in the private school law. This is also about respect and tolerance. Of course Christian People's Party wants a quality school for everyone. For this reason, the government of Bondevik launched several improvements in Norwegian school — and simply a reverse in terms of development work at school. The current State Council, Lilletun, opened, inter alia, to give greater emphasis to local initiatives. The central government ‘sloppered the pyramid’ in school policy, and we were gradually breaking the central school reform policy. The central government provided a wider framework, simple central rules, increased flexibility and extended scope for action on local diversity. The dialogue with school owners and employees on issues of central regulation versus local governance was started. The local space for action was exploited to a greater extent. The development focus was shifted from the central to the local arenas, and student, student and parent participation was emphasised. In the state budget for 2000, there were 225 million. The school action package has been allocated mainly to the youth. The initiative is aimed at developing skills for teachers in the use of ICT and testing of teacher leave and accommodation schemes. This was the start of a system that allows teachers to update and re-train themselves at regular intervals. We cannot rest on the laurels once major school reforms have been adopted. It is after the decision that work begins, a work that requires both attention and effort in terms of money. If the everyday life in the classroom is to be as the curriculum allows, the educational development needs to be renewed and reinforced. Substantial efforts are therefore needed both in terms of testing and development and in terms of continuing training. A combination of these two fields of activity can give growth and development in school because it will give teachers and students the opportunity to unfold and test out ideas and ideas they believe in. Invite to participate gives action. Providing financial support for work provides motivation. For several years, teachers have increased their competence within 6-10-year-old education. This has been necessary due to the 6-year reform. Now is the time for a broad commitment to a high school pedagogy. School life can be very divided into individual subjects and individual hours. The Bondevik government was well in the process in these areas, and I hope the government Stoltenberg continues this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e969	Prime Minister Stoltenberg, in his declaration of accession, expressed an active commitment to international defence and security policy. Traditionally, there is not much disagreement in the Storting on defence and security policy. This has been demonstrated by the debates held in recent years. At the same time, we know that the defence is facing major challenges in the time to come. We have set behind us a period of major changes in the framework conditions for Norway's foreign and security policy. All in all, the basic trends we have seen have provided increased security for Norway. The danger of confrontation and armed conflict according to the cold war pattern is virtually eliminated. This gives us new opportunities in international work to create a better and safer world. However, we are still facing major challenges, and Norway can contribute a lot here. We have a long tradition of participating in international operations to help prevent or resolve crises and conflicts. Our most comprehensive commitment now is participation in the KFOR force in Kosovo. As the rich country of Norway is, and with our strong traditions of showing solidarity internationally, it is of course that we set up and contribute to these kinds of operations. Through our international commitment, we contribute to strengthening international law, which is particularly important for a small country like ours. It has also been shown in recent years that military intervention by the international community can be the last chance for the protection of peace and human rights, as we have experienced in the Balkans. In addition, Norway also has a self-interest in maintaining a significant international military involvement. International operations give us credibility and thus influence. We are expected to play a role in this area. We are committed by our strong support role in the UN and by our membership in a defence alliance that has increasingly taken responsibility for crisis management and stability in Europe. At the same time, our participation in international operations in a NATO framework builds up under our ability to receive allied reinforcements to Norway if ever so. In addition, participation in international operations has become more important in relation to Nordic cooperation and thus contributes to our direct involvement in European security and defence cooperation. This also applies to future European-led crisis management. We achieve valuable operational experience and necessary exercise with our allies by participating in international operations. For us, it is of course that our international efforts are based to the greatest extent possible on international law and are carried out within established conventions and norms for the use of military instruments. It is also crucial for our participation in operations such as those currently taking place in Kosovo that the security of Norwegian personnel is ensured in a secure manner. This must be an indispensable requirement. This matters to the equipment that our forces need, and costs back money. In the discussion we have received after the large budget excesses regarding Norwegian participation in KFOR, we must not make the security of our soldiers a balancing post. The Defence Committee visited the soldiers who are now about to go down to Kosovo and take over for those who are now going home. Among other things, we received: an understanding of the need for safety equipment in such a troubled area. We are now certain that our soldiers have good equipment, and so it should be. This visit was also part of the Committee's work on St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99 establishing the Armed Forces for International Operations. We in the Workers' Party regard this communication as an important contribution to further developing and improving our international participation, both in terms of planning on a safer basis and in terms of budgeting better. The global challenges we face also make it necessary to reform and strengthen the UN. The UN plays a fundamental role in international military operations, both through its legitimising role as a mandater and through its own capacity to undertake conflict prevention and peacekeeping operations. It is therefore important to put in place forces to strengthen the operational role of the United Nations. The safety and cooperation organisation in Europe is also an important part of pan-European safety cooperation. The Labour Party considers it important that Norway continues to play an active role in the organisation, even though our chairmanship is over – a time when the central government made the Norwegian people and the world aware of the role of the OSCE in an attempt to resolve conflicts in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e992	The Government statement places great emphasis on the need for renewal in the public sector. According to the municipal minister in today's edition of the Municipal Report, this renewal work is to be based on the public sector renewal programme undertaken in cooperation between the Workers' Party and the LO. I have therefore read this program with interest, and yesterday's somewhat elevated mood based on the government statement has declined significantly. This is not a programme that will ensure the well-being or adaptability of the current public sector. The reform needs are greater than they were, and as long as the Workers' Party continues to allow the Municipal Association with Jan Davidsen in the head to have some kind of veto right to necessary conversions, I fear the pace of conversion will be too slow. However, I am pleased with some of the signals given: Retail management needs to be reduced, it needs to be cleared up in double bureaucracy, the administrative apparatus needs to be simplified, and there needs to be more service production and less administration. We agree with that. But sometimes I get a little over the angle of incidence of the Workers' Party. Let me take an example from the debate on the future of the county. It seems that the Workers' Party is most concerned with drawing new maps and boundaries – not taking into account which tasks are to be solved and how best to solve them. The right-hand starting point has been a review of how to solve these problems. This has made us think it is enough with two levels of government. On the other hand, the working party seems to discuss 19, 12 or 5 regions/persons – not what they should actually do. So if that's right, it's the wrong angle of incidence in relation to the desire to eliminate double work and reduce administrative costs in our country. Increased freedom of action for municipalities is necessary in the years to come in order to ensure basic welfare tasks, but increased freedom of action is far more than money. Lower costs give the same degree of freedom of action as increased revenues. Fee increases, cost overruns, increased share of transfers as earmarked funds reduce the financial autonomy of municipalities. In addition, the extensive legal, regulatory, circular and reporting system reduces the freedom of action over all the resources of the municipalities. I agree with the statement that strong government governance is not an automatic guarantee of equivalent offers. Yes, I would go further and say that strong government can contradict an equivalent offer. It's e.g. The fact that there are several lonely elderly people in the largest cities, the need for care provision may be greater because there are less private networks to build on. This requires local knowledge, resources are best used by relying on local democracy. I expect a more offensive reduction in government governance with the new government in relation to what the Bondevik government has accomplished. Now it's probably not really a bomb that a right-wing representative feels disappointed at the Center Party – we often do. But in this area, the disappointment has actually been great. For whom would the Central Party have believed that the Central Council of the Ministry of State would be sitting in the State Council at a time when the tax revenues from local business would be removed from the municipalities, the state detail management would increase and the municipalities would have record deficits? I have recorded that former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik is constantly moving forward ‘A simpler Norway’ as the important simplification programme that the central government started. Less state bureaucracy, less legislative and regulatory requirements for municipalities are strictly necessary to provide municipalities with a space for action that allows them to create the best possible community. But it seems that the Foreign Minister forgets that it took the central government over a year to admit that there was a need for such a programme. I would like to remind you that former municipal minister Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad felt it was unnecessary to carry out a review of legislation and regulations against the municipalities. Right-wing promotion and majority in favour of the proposal against the votes of the central parties in the examination of the local democracy statement in March 1998. Two months later, the Council of State reiterated its position that this was unnecessary in the context of the 1999 Community economicproposition. Then the Workers' Party failed. The right-wing urban council in Oslo sent letters with 47 different rules they thought should be changed to give municipalities greater freedom of action. The councils turned the thumb down for all 47 proposals. Only after the Right promoted a separate Document No. Eight proposals in the autumn of 1998 for a separate simplification selection according to the model of the Economic and Social Committee were speeded up by the Ministry of Local Affairs and a change. The majority of the population have also decided, on the initiative of the Right, to launch new ‘freedom trials’. The programme ‘Simplifying Norway’ is fine. But so far, nothing has become simpler with the central government, so far, there have been projects and talks. It is only when the real priorities come between professional interests and interest groups that the difficult choices come. So far, the center government never came. I wish the Labour Party government good luck in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1010	The Prime Minister concluded the Government’s Declaration of Accession with the words ‘Norway is the society of opportunity’. He gave a message that a new millennium requires new solutions in a lot of areas, and that we all have to be team players to do it. In other words, we are going into a time-bomb where political leaders must be involved, much more strongly than in messages and time-fixed visions. The Prime Minister was in his speech on security both in an international and in a national context. The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a fuller explanation of the international dimension. I want to focus on security in Norway in a security and environmental perspective. We have all, not least in the last few months, been reminded that security in many areas has been tested, and at the bottom of everything we do, this must be. In areas where there is a shortage today, one has to take care of it. The working party will, for example, before the Coastal Museum looks at the accessibility and safety of seafarers. The government of Stoltenberg, as the leader of a maritime and fisheries nation, will really take hold of this. That's where we'll get growth nutrients in District Norway, because that's where Norway as a nation has better potential than most of the others. As is now the case with defective maps, in part from the late 1800s, and lack of labelling for reasons and events, it is not satisfactory. There are examples of deviations of more than 200 m between maps and terrain, and within such deviations there are both hollows and happenings, and they are many of them along our long coast. Important elements of the infrastructure needed to ensure construction and employment are not good enough to bear the weight of a fishery and aquaculture industry that uses the potential of the land. It was only when we got the major disasters that the Bondevik government laid loose on the money bag and new fresh money was released. But it's so little along our long-distance coast to allow itself out of the problems of just a little distance. In the government of Jagland, a NOU was developed, 1995:5, on the organisation and efficiency of the Coastal Agency. It was supposed to provide manning reductions and personal changes to get this important work started, but it has doctors well-preserved in a drawer until today. Here something needs to be done about the effective and rational use of the resources already available. The new Minister for Fisheries will be able to handle these tasks. He's going to use good powers in the organizations to get this done. In the Coastal Network, there is frustration and a lack of competence that has characterized the situation in recent years. This cannot continue. Turning this around will in the long run lead to increased safety for seafarers, but it will also be for those who are left on land. One must not least include the environmental aspect in the same path of thought. It's in our Arctic waters, where rust caves on tows or ships sailing under forward-looking flags seem like ticking bombs. And not to forget: Norway, as an oil nation, is carrying a lot of impeccable and dangerous goods themselves. There are no unsolved tasks missing, no, the missing one was an action. With the receipt of the Government's declaration of accession here today, it seems that the majority will support many. Therefore, we go to the Labour Party with enthusiasm and willingness to act from one day to another.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1033	Unfortunately, the declaration of accession by the government of Stoltenberg does not give any indication of increased investment in transport in Norway. If it is not directly surprising, it is disappointing at least that the Workers' Party does not see the importance of transport for economic value creation in this country. The right-hand transport policy objective is that all parts of the country should have a modern infrastructure, because modern infrastructure and good communications are essential for continued economic value creation and thus maintaining employment and housing in our districts. Transport costs in Norway are high — too high — and this weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian business. It's unfortunate in a country like ours, where innovation and increased economic value creation in mainland Norway are more important than ever when we know that our oil revenues will fall in the long term. A survey conducted in Europe comparing European countries shows that the cost of logistics in Norway, in the Norwegian industry, is more than 50 pst. higher than elsewhere in Europe. Transport is the main component and represents 2/3 of the logistical costs. On average, transport costs alone represent close to 8 pst. of the value in turnover. And it's very loud. Unfortunately, over several years the transport sector has suffered from a lack of infrastructure and high charges. We experience an increase in revenue from car-related taxes, while road appropriations are being reduced. At the same time, the use of tolls is increasing. This is a development that cannot continue. When the Transport Committee is travelling around the country – and we often do – we are presented everywhere for a number of good projects that will lead to increased nutrient development and safe welfare and housing. Zealous local politicians, not least from the Workers' Party, are asking that their project be realised to secure the society they belong to. Therefore it was with some hope that I now saw the government of Stoltenberg occupying the departments. The background was the opinion of central politicians in the Workers' Party that wanted to increase efforts in the transport sector. In fact, I have collected some resolutions from the Workers' Party's County Annual Meetings and read with great interest how busy you have been of transportation there. I also see here in the Official Journal of Bergen on 12 March that the representative Ranveig Frøiland promises speed in the road construction. There were not many signals to see again in the Declaration of Accession that has now been presented. Therefore, it was disappointing and indeed remarkable that, in its government statement, Stoltenberg did not mention the transport sector in one single word. He was in the bet on the broadband network. It was also the representative of Enoxsen. To that it's just saying that there's a total big deal agreeing. An overall Committee on Transport has been behind broadband investment in this country. Don't say that. Now there is no lack of investment in the road sector any new thing on the part of the Workers' Party. Over the last two major periods, reduced efforts in the field of transport have been the policies of the Workers' Party, despite increased transport costs, reduced accessibility and an increase in the number of road accidents. In the context of the treatment of Norwegian road and road traffic plans for the period 1998-2007, the Right, together with the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, ensured a strong increase in investment in road transport compared to the government of Jagland. After the central parties got into the government offices, they quickly ran away from the promises of increased investment on the way. The Centre has continued the low level of funding for the road sector to which the previous Labour Party Government provided and which the new Labour Party Government – if we are to base the Government Declaration – seems to have to continue. In this way you could say that everything is at the old place. However, the Labour Party has placed great emphasis on – they say at least – improving the efficiency of the public sector. And it is my hope, no matter what is now to be related to the appropriations, that the Workers' Party is holding on to the fact that, with more efficiency, this also applies to the transport sector, that one really has the courage and the power to go in and look at that sector too, unless it is possible to get far more of the resources we have there today than we have now, unless it is also possible to look at other ways of financing, building and projecting road projects in this country, with greater certainty of costs, with greater efficiency and greater benefit for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1056	Ever since the post-war joint programme, there has been a broad consensus on the broad lines of the development of the welfare society. The fact that the People's Security Act was promoted by the Borten government and unanimously adopted by the Stortinge testifies to this. The same goes for unanimous repetitions of the fact that popular fear remains the cornerstone of our welfare building. However, the public interest as other welfare services is challenged by a new era of technological and demographic change, changes in the division of labour between public and private, between men and women. Social security was built as a safety net adapted to the industrial worker with responsibility for the domestic wife and children. This provided for a performance structure that is not adapted in the same way to the current situation, where women themselves are dependants and work out their own rights – such conditions must be reflected in the further development of popular awareness. New welfare rights are granted in the context of a new division of labour between men and women in terms of leave and financial compensation for care tasks. The new feature of the rights structure is that it is characterised by flexibility, depending on which families of children can find a good balance between participation in both private and public spheres. Modernisation of the public sector involves, inter alia: that we develop such flexible mechanisms that strengthen the individual's freedom of choice. Often it is presented as if individual freedom of choice contradicts a strong public sector. My generation of women's liberation is evidence of the opposite. The welfare state and the public sector have been the basic plan and the prerequisite for women's liberation and our choices. The new technology not only involves structural changes and opportunities for business and the private sector. It also provides opportunities for the renewal and modernisation of the public sector, for example: in public health. The right-hand side has sought solutions in traditional market thinking. This isn't necessarily thinking forward. On the other hand, new information technology can be the key to the future modernisation of the healthcare system. Telemedicine will be able to democratize and decentralise treatment services that are currently highly centralised. It could provide opportunities for a more rational use of specialist health services, provide opportunities for a different division of labour between primary health services and specialist health services. This could improve the specialist availability of patients where they live, for example. by diagnosis by telecommunications and treatment may be provided locally. These great opportunities could give us a completely different health care system if we had the ability to put them into practice. But also developments in biotechnology provide us with completely new opportunities both to treat diseases and to prevent their development. These are treatment options that have a completely different technology and completely different resource use requirements than current labour-intensive hospitals. This too may require a completely different type of resource use and an entirely different organisation than is the case today. We have to be actively involved in the development of knowledge in this area and not stick our heads in the sand, as we've seen trends from the center government. If the public sector is to be modernised in the pact with future developments, we must use the opportunities offered by the new technology. This will enable us to ensure a future-oriented development of the welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1073	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1076	«Knowledge and ideas will be our most important capital» is stated in the Government Declaration. I guess no one disagrees with that, but do we think about what kind of words we use? Our most important capital – couldn't we say our most important value when we talk about knowledge? Personally, I think it's symptomatic that everything should be expressed in economic terms in our days. The Parties will stress that education and competence are essential for the quality of life, the preservation of well-being and the long-term and sound management of resources. Education shall provide life values, attitudes and knowledge to meet the challenges of the new millennium. I believe that this must be the key elements of education policy. Pure expertise alone does not solve future challenges. Eligibility for empathy and cooperation is at least equally important. I hope that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party can agree on this, as well as that the right to training and education should be independent of social background, residence, sex and financial capacity. Through the school, it is a national responsibility to help parents in their education and offer timely and equivalent training. By investing in the Public Unit School, students will receive a well-adapted training offer. The Prime Minister said yesterday that the Government will propose the introduction of a right for adults who wish to take secondary education and who have not completed such training in the past. Here I must point out that the Storting has already adopted such a right, it was done when the central government proposed this in the current year's budget. Solid community economics and well-educated teachers are a prerequisite for a good school. I have noticed that Stoltenberg while he was a Prime Minister's candidate, said that the Workers' Party would go further than a then government in improving the recruitment of the teaching profession. In this context, I recall that the Labour Party and the Centre parties were united on the current year's budget. I am therefore waiting anxiously for what grip the Government will join in the continuation. We must have confidence in the individual teacher and school. For too long, the central direction of the school has been on suffocating at local level. The Training Act, which the Centre Administration presented and adopted, has a test paragraph designed to stimulate local development. At the same time, the rigid contract work in the school should be softened. I am curious whether these processes will be continued by the new Minister of Education. I point out that the bulk of the population, all except the Workers' Party, have joined the following in Innst. S. No 120 for 1999-2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate greater freedom for each school to organise its work and to provide working time, inter alia, with room for more local development work and more space for the creativity of the individual teacher.’ The working party did not join this, because it was on professional rights, it was said. I have to ask if the school should be exempted from the announced modernisation of the public sector. Was it a mistake that the Workers' Party did not support the above-mentioned decision, which is actually only four weeks old? Modernisation of the public sector needs to be more important than the local and county structure. I also hope that the Labour Party will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1099	The scheduled time for the afternoon meeting is up. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map is finalised – and considers it to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1104	There have been many words here today, almost like a verbal marathon exercise, with socialist vision. But right now it's no more than a booked idea. Realities and priorities are gradually coming. The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, made a committed contribution, especially when she spoke about the diagnosed state school. But you get the school you vote for when you belong to a majority in Stortinget. The representative Oppebøen Hansen told about the 300,000 adults who strongly wanted a place in the county high school, and that this matter was important for the Workers' Party to solve. The government has both in its vision and in the press gone out hard with the promise of a right for all adults to get today's high school. This right has already jeopardized wage settlement, with breaches of the negotiations between the LO and the NHO on 16 March following the LO’s demand for control of the right to continue training reform, a reform which, by means of the employer and the State, benefits adults, working people with better rights than youth. This is egoism put in a perspective without equal. The reform exerts a great deal of pressure on the secondary school, which today is characterised by a lack of teacher recruitment, lack of school building and a lack of state funding. Realities will continue to reduce quality content in order to increase volume, a presumptuously lower supply for young people. Does the Workers' Party want a stowage scheme where the requirement for continuing training for adults at work under the LOs tab will reduce the ability of young people to enter secondary school? Or should young people be given priority and the reform of continuing education and training with rights be only a paper guarantee, like the waiting list guarantee in the hospital system, a guarantee that is not worth the paper it is written on? It is with amazement that the representative Lilletun embraces this start-up. The Progress Party does not want to play the blacklist with the opportunity for the future to secure the welfare society and will therefore, as in the discussion of the reform, ensure the best possible requirements for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1117	The Prime Minister stated in his Declaration of Accession that the Government will actively invest in the development of biotechnology. Norway shall not, according to the Prime Minister, stand outside the technological revolution. The Government will assess the EU Patent Directive on the basis, expressed by the Prime Minister. There are interesting wordings on the part of the Prime Minister, and they have not been given much space in today's debate without a reason. In the setting of St.meld. No 8 and St.meld. No 36 for 1990-91 on biotechnology, the majority – of whom the Workers' Party was part – wrote the following about patents in life: ‘The majority indicate that the current patent law does not allow patents to be granted on animal breeds or plant varieties, which in Norway is perceived and practised as a general ban on the patenting of animals, plants and differentiating animal and plant cells. The majority agree with the Ministry that there should be no change in this situation and that there should also be no access to patents on naturally occurring material.» Natural material means here genes of cells and tissues. Furthermore, the vote – the Labour Party was part of the majority – expressed the following: ‘The majority have noted that the Government takes a negative view of the international development towards allowing patents on naturally occurring micro-organisms and naturally occurring materials and agrees with the Government’s assessments at this point.’ Further in the same position – The Labour Party was part of the majority: ‘The majority believe that it is important that the Government in the international context works for patent law systems in line with its main views and to take due account of the needs and interests of the developing countries as regards the arrangements being established.’ The government you comment on in the setting is the Harlem Brundtland government. The Harlem Brundtland government did in St.meld. No 36, which was an additional communication on biotechnology, was tightening up with the Syse government just at the points where the Stoltenberg government is now flagging liberalisation. What is clearly stated is that national considerations should be taken into account and that there should be no liberalisation. It is interesting to see how the Medical Association has met this matter. In the latest Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association, no. 7, the President states that one of the reasons why patents are being used in the EU in this case may be that such processes in the EU bureaucracy are more inaccessible to the outside world. Then you say that once the Medical Association has made contact with their sister organizations in Europe, you get them on their side, and then you get the same reactions there. Why should the Norwegian government not play a key role in preventing this development, if one is to be visionary and forward-looking, rather than – I'm sorry, it's perhaps unparliamentary – to argue after a development in Europe that a number of researchers now warn against?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1143	The President assumes that it is not Parliament's fault to dilt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1146	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1151	It has sometimes been interesting to follow the debate here today, but in my view, many in the opposition have concentrated too much on the past and have paid too little attention to the challenges facing Norway in the new century. The Declaration of Government and, inter alia, the Declaration of Government. The contributions of the Prime Minister and the Governments have invited us to a debate on the challenges ahead. The challenges stem from the strong changes we are experiencing today. GAIA – the world's environmental atlas is described as follows: The new world that is emerging in the breaking-up of new values, new technologies, new geopolitical conditions, new lifestyles and new ways of communicating requires completely new ideas and images, divisions and concepts. We can't force the germinal world of tomorrow into yesterday's narrow butt. Therefore, it is important to put away the slogan of conservatism to change in order to preserve and maintain the importance of adapting policies to the times in which they live. It is therefore important to change in order to renew and improve, as stated in the Declaration of Accession. The declaration warns of a policy which, instead of disconnecting Norway from important processes, makes the necessary connections to crucial processes regionally and internationally. In the year that we're behind, we've spent a lot of time looking back because of the hundredth year change and the thousandth year change. In the newspaper at the turn of the year Anders Heger formulated himself about this worn-out old millennia we were about to end: ‘As if we did a last spasm to belong there. As if we were saying to the future, it's us. The people of the second millennium. We invented the ringbrow, the carrier bag and the Internet. We who finished building the Chinese wall... you remember us? Us with the slave traffic and the book printing? The crowd with the phones, the steam engines, the witchfires and the nuclear bombs? We who traveled Nidarosdom and tore the fries of Acropolis?» It was as if we were spasmodically trying to hold on to the old century, more than using the opportunity to try to look into the new thing that lay ahead of us. But our task is not primarily to end a century, but to start a new one. We're not going to close the door to the old, but we're going to do like the government: open to the unborn, the newborn, and the opportunities ahead of us. That is why I look forward to the political environment – we in Stortinget – when the Government comes back with proposals that follow the Declaration of Accession, starting with the construction of Norway. I am aware that I cannot be perceived as 100 pst. objectively in this context, but I am sure that it is social democracy that is best able to carry out the task of building a Norway for the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1168	I find it necessary to comment on some of Enoxsen's posts and Jan Petersen's reply to the Prime Minister. The Enox showed in his speech that his government had promoted a case of alternative forms of organisation for county hospitals, where it opened up to organise hospitals as independent legal entities. And then he said, ‘The initiative was taken to prevent some county municipalities from electing the form of a limited liability company as an organisational form.’And further:‘Does the modernisation of the health and social sector by the Workers’ Party mean that the party will go beyond the central government on this issue?’ This is a strange shooting of what might be the Workers' Party's opinion. The position of my party will be made known by the committee and, where appropriate, by the Government. I have to return the question to Enoch: Does he disagree with his own government? The proposition states, for example: the following: ‘The aim of the legislative proposal is to open up a wider range of forms of association between which the counties can choose.’ If the centre party leader does not agree with this, then at least the Labour Party is for this. We are further in principle in the Ministry's proposal that county municipalities may choose organisational solutions other than the current administrative organisation. The working party will select the forms of organisation which, among others: supports building on health policy objectives, taking democratic and administrative considerations, better addressing the governance and accountability challenges for hospitals. The representative Petersen referred to a statement from me where I raised doubts about the durability of the Bondevik government's calculation of the hospital economy. Yes, me and the Workers' Party were very uncertain whether the Government's proposal was adapted to the real cost level in the hospitals. That is why we said that the Bondevik administration had to get back to Stortinget quickly with a new case, and we demanded, among other things. much better evidence that the rates of the State under the ISF were sustainable, much better decision-making basis for setting the reimbursement rates of the State, much better interaction between the State and the county and much more predictability. This was among other things: the conditions to be included in the Government's proposed appropriations. And this of course the new government will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1195	A government statement may not contain everything. However, a government statement should include what the new government considers to be the main challenges. I guess that's been the direction for this government as well. The transport sector is, in my view, a very important sector, and it is not mentioned in a single word, as far as I can see. I expect this to be a forgetfulness, not a deliberate act. In recent years, road sector appropriations have been declining despite the apparent increase in demand. What has increased is the number of toll stations along our roads, while the state's involvement in road construction is historically low. It's going to look so many different ways. On the main road through e.g. Last year, we had a record number of fatal accidents. This is a sad proof that now something has to be done, and it's fast. I am aware that there are also many other reasons for these fatal accidents, but the fact that large parts of the tribal road through Agder are almost unchanged since the time it was rationalising on cars, of course, does its own. When we know at the same time that the number of cars is increasing, that the number of trailers is increasing, and not least that the size of the trailers has increased, it goes without saying that this high number of accidents is something we have to expect in the future if nothing happens. The government here has a clear responsibility to prioritize so that this unworthy situation can change. I expect that the transport plan that the Government will soon promote for the Storting not only contains the South's legitimate part of the appropriations, but that appropriations are proposed to an extent that suggests that we take back some of the aftertaste that is demonstrably present. There is no secret of which parts of the country have received more than their fair share of the transport appropriations, whether for underground or overseas tunnels, bridges or roads. At least it's not the South. One does not have to be malicious when one suggests that there has been a historical connection between where a council of states comes from and where road appropriations are plentiful. The fact that no state council in the new government is weekly within the tribal road between Vestfold and Hordaland, I hope not to reflect where in the country it is to be invested in road construction. Now, however, the new government – the Labour Party government – has an outstanding chance of correcting both its own and, for that matter, the faults of others from the last decade, not least to the southern part of the country. I hope that this chance is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1215	Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg started his declaration of accession by saying that ‘Norway is the society of opportunity’. It offers optimism and faith in the future. I have a sense of that. In too many contexts, it focuses on problems. But think how lucky we are to live in Norway, a peaceful corner of the world, with great opportunities for most! The Workers' Party and the Landsorganisation were the architects behind the broad political alliance that built the welfare state. Our welfare model became a social democratic success, a successful combination of democracy and social justice in many areas. Social democracy is thus also given responsibility for the mistakes and shortcomings of welfare policy. The responsibility for dealing with these deficiencies is the Workers' Party again ready to take, and we go to the task with great respect. The Labour Party shall not at all costs defend the existing. New ways of living make people have other and new needs for help from welfare systems. The individual's obligations towards the community must also be redefined. In order to strengthen well-being, the Government will further develop and improve the public sector. It is important that the public sector retains primary responsibility for the welfare systems. They must discriminate in favour of those who need it the most. Norwegian Municipal Councils have for several years pointed to the need for cooperation on the modernisation and renewal of the public sector. Employee organisations work closely on users and know how the shoe prints. I am pleased that the Association of Local Authorities will be involved in this work. Modernisation is not the same as privatisation. The working party cannot accept the commercialisation of healthcare. The working party disagrees that the size of the wallet should be decisive for the kind of health services and care we can receive. That is why we need to make good joint arrangements so that we can avoid unwanted privatisation and commercialisation. But a no to privatisation does not prevent us from spending money more efficiently, avoiding double-work in the public sector and getting more out of every penny. It has always been the Labour Party's policy that public funds should be used rationally and with respect. Competitive outsourcing and privatisation will be supported by users if they feel that existing services do not meet their basic needs, in particular in the area of health and care. This is why our main tool for social development is to develop an efficient and modern public sector that operates rationally and focuses on users. I am pleased that the Prime Minister said in his Declaration of Accession: ‘The work, knowledge and creativity of humans are Norway’s real national wealth. All should be able to work. It's worth working. ...our goal is to get those who are unemployed today to work." This is an important objective for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1237	We have set behind us a century in which women's lives have been continuously changed – in all phases of life. Never before have girls taken as much education as now. Several women choose to work full-time, and job challenges are important for many. However, many choose traditional professions and seem to take more account of future families in terms of career choices and plans. A time study from the Statistical Centre shows that children have never received more care. While today’s parents were under supervision at home when they were young, they themselves are actively engaged in their children’s daily lives. Before she watched with the kids from the kitchen window, she was never far away when they needed her. Today the parents are on the floor playing with the little ones. Small people don't see much less of their parents than they did in 1970. But they spend more time with either mother or father. In particular, the isolation of fathers has increased. And association is more marked by active care than usual supervision. Babies’ parents spend half an hour and a half daily on passports, care, play, reading, conversations and other care than usual in the 1970s. The study shows that parents cut down on cleaning and traditional housework to be more with the children. The Labour Party's policy has been and is still influenced by the fact that we want a development where we spend more, not less, time with the children and the family. The answer is not that the parents stop working. We don't want to take a step back. Society needs parents to work. Therefore, it is important that society facilitates the challenges of parenting and professional activity. That society can and must contribute are good leave arrangements, good care provision for children in the form of kindergartens and a law granting workers rights in the context of pregnancy, childbirth and child care. That's how we can make sure that children and their parents get a good and safe everyday life, and that's how we can be able to ensure well-being even in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1254	I have noticed with interest that several of the speakers in today's debate have pointed to the importance of a fiscal policy that helps to keep the price and cost growth down. That's also the government's goal. The government would therefore like to invite a wide range of cooperation in Stortinget to achieve this. Allow me to comment on two proposals put forward in the debate. The government will facilitate the development of knowledge-based activities in Norway. Current rules on the taxation of options in employment do not provide satisfactory framework conditions. The Government will therefore propose to the Storting that the current acquisition tax on options in employment be abolished. The Government will propose that the legislative amendment take effect from the current year of income. The proposal will be submitted to the Stortinget before Easter. What the representative of Sponheim is asking for in his proposal is therefore already being prepared. Then to the proposal of the representative Jensen. The state ownership of the Norwegian Bank and the Bank of Credit was discussed in Stortinget in the treatment of the credit notification. The Government shall base its work on the observations of the majority of the Financial Committee. On that basis, the State Bank Investment Fund has been asked to assess structural solutions for the Norwegian Bank and the Credit Fund. The Government will take a stand when the Bank Investment Fund’s assessment is available. I am concerned that clarification should take place fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1265	The Right Party and the Labour Party fully agree that Norway needs a strong and competitive business. New businesses need to be created, but traditional industries with future opportunities also need to be maintained in such a way that we do not lose key personnel, competence or, in the worst case, entire industries. The maritime industries are of the utmost importance for Coast Norway, but also for the country as a whole. The Prime Minister did not mention these industries in his Declaration of Accession, but I actually take his appointment of Grete Knudsen as Minister of Food and Trade as a positive signal that a constructive and active shipping policy will be pursued in the coming period. That's at least what the Right Hope is. Maritime industries must have a competitive environment for all parts of their businesses, and not least for seafarers. They are the main factor for the coastal districts and the country as a whole to benefit from the values these industries mean in terms of safe jobs and good tax revenues. I remember last year that 6 billion tax dollars were paid from the direct shipping agents at sea and land. Goods and services were purchased in Norway for more than 10 billion kroner, and the currency was charged for more than 50 billion kroner. So we're talking about significant value creation. Norwegian seafarers are key personnel in relation to both clean shipping and to many of the associated land-based activities. Reimbursement aid should ensure that we can also have a basic Norwegian seafarer on Norwegian ships in the future, and it must be large enough to withstand the fact that important shore-based industries can draw the necessary skills from there. It is neither an objective nor a wish that the entire fleet under the Norwegian flag should have Norwegian seafarers, for which the fleet is too large. However, the rootstock must be secured by regular recruitment and training must provide security for a safe workplace. The refund rate of 20 pst. were the State's contractual contributions and the ship groups within the scheme were determined on the basis of both competitive conditions and the ability of the type of ship to assume responsibility for apprentices on board. Over the last two years, the framework conditions have significantly deteriorated in Norway, while EU competitors have improved their framework. Reduced reimbursement support has led Norwegian manned vessels to lose competition for the cargo, and into the whole of the NOR fleet is now increasing the flagging out. More than 50 coastal vessels have been flagged out, forced out, last year, with a crew shift as a result. Also in the case of the bending loads, we now see a switch from Norwegian to foreign crews. As politicians, we cannot be aware that the framework conditions once again create uncertainty. But this government hasn't given shipping any promises, it had the previous government. The previous government broke its promises. Now I have a hope, and I challenge the Labour Party to take responsibility for Norwegian seafarers and for our valuable maritime industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1280	The government has been committed to producing visions and some long-term lines in its Declaration of Accession, and that is good. But there is one area that I think we have taken too little account of in the debate today, and it is an area where I believe that the visions can be achieved in the short term – I hope the Government agrees – namely to eradicate poverty in Norway. We've never been as rich as we are today – the profits are increasing, most wages are increasing, the state is collecting wealth and becoming a visionless greedy drug that speculates in shares. In the middle of this, we know that there are 45,000 children living below the poverty line in Norway. 45000 children live in a situation where they are completely disconnected — to put it that way — the opportunity to participate in society under normal conditions. They don't have money for the movies, they can't take the bus if they're going to a sports club, and they're what the Spøysen called "the non-gods" – I don't want to play football, or I don't want to go to the gym. It's the children that the Prussian says hide fillets, because it's a shame to be poor. This must be one of the most important tasks that we face, that we make sure to eradicate poverty quickly. And maybe the worst thing we do to several of these children is that when their family gets into big social difficulties, we send them to the shelter. I don't know if many in this room or if the gentlemen in the back of the rotunda have ever visited a hostel. That's what you should do. At the shelter, there are such conditions that hard-boiled criminals escape from there because they don't have the strength to be there. And so these are homes that we – the richest country in the world – send children to live, not one day or one night, but for weeks and months. Of course, there aren't so many homes to take off in this country, but we actually have an institution called hotels. This government must agree with SV that the use of accommodation for families with children must cease immediately. I'm almost inclined to say that it should lead to punishment if adult authorities send families with children to stay at the hospital. There are other solutions, and it is one of the really important tasks that I hope this government sets as one of its first points when trying to tackle the social and unacceptable problem of poverty also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1289	There was a parallel exchange between Carl I. Hagen and the Prime Minister who made me react, because there was a possible interest rate increase on the part of the Bank of Norway. The Prime Minister accused Carl I. Hagen of being very selective in his dealings with the governor's annual report. Now I've just taken it out and read it through. I understand that the Prime Minister has also done that, for the husband of many identical sentences in terms of what is said here, and what is stated in the government statement can hardly be found. That is in itself good, but it is striking that the Prime Minister is equally selective in his dealings with what the Governor has actually said. At a time when we know that the pressure in the economy is increasing, the central bank manager has clearly warned that we are going to increase taxes and taxes, and at a time when we have a very tight labour market, it can contribute to the demand for strong wage growth from employees. We see that there. When the Governor says at the same time that fiscal policy should be used to balance the fluctuations in domestic demand, it is precisely a signal that fiscal policy must be used to prevent price rises. And one of the things that he actually says right out is that we can use tax policy within the limits that have been adopted. I agree with that – we have adopted a framework, but it is therefore fully possible to re-prioritize within the framework of, for example. to reduce the expenditure of the country in order to reduce tax and tax burdens. And I think it's directly irresponsible of us not to do anything about it at a time when we see that the pressure on the economy is increasing, when we have the opportunities, because they're there. Then it's almost tempting to say that when the Prime Minister in his speech almost rejects this as a problem, he's very close to talking the interest rate up. I don't think that's very reliable, at a time when this might be a problem. In fact, I think that our new government should take this much more seriously and perhaps consider reducing taxes and charges within a responsible framework, precisely in order for fiscal policy to deliver its own so that we do not get a price increase and thus an interest rate increase, which has been notified by the central bank. So I think you should use the governor as a witness to the truth, you have to do it properly. It's not like we're more easily dealing with facts than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1296	Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said in the government statement yesterday that cultural policy should be inclusive and promote diversity in Norway. Culture is going to challenge and make our lives richer. Bertolt Brecht once said: “Art is a luxury that man needs.” Art is culture, and we need culture whether we live in the city or in the country. The aim of the Workers' Party is to promote creativity and creativity in all ages and among all nationalities. Nothing brings people together more than working and practicing and using culture. Culture is essential to our quality of life and competence. Through culture, we create an important part of our identity. Cultural activities and leisure activities should be defined as prevention measures where we can capture children and young people and provide them with services according to their own needs. Then it is important that culture has a broad place in every budget and not become a balancing item, which some parties use diligently. We're going to take care of old and new forms of expression and take more care of the culture of our new countrymen. Maybe it could be a first step from the regmentality of young people, and for our adults immigrants from different nations, being a first step on the ladder to get into a lasting work situation. Unfortunately, unemployment among immigrants is three to four times right than in the population as a whole. Our immigrants represent more than 170 nationalities, and it goes without saying that diversity is significant for both cultural work and other important tasks that Norway so badly needs to take care of. In the future, we need to focus more on the diversity of skills that immigrants have instead of constantly focusing on the need for all to improve their qualifications. Norwegian training is important, but several types of jobs can be filled by immigrants with the skills they actually possess, and then the Norwegian language will also be easier to learn. Norway is becoming a multicultural nation. It suggests that employers will need to assess multicultural competences more closely in the future as relevant and valuable. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, we must mobilise new labour in all groups of the population, including among immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1316	It is gratifying that so many of us in the fisheries industry have their value creation potential in the debate today. I would like to pay particular attention to Mr Enoxen's speech earlier in the debate, where he was involved in the fisheries and aquaculture industry, which has grown from being a highly subsidized industry to becoming Norway's second largest export industry in 25-30 years, that we have natural advantages in aquaculture, and that the potential for growth is great, not least when it comes to farming. He then put forward proposal No. 2, where it is called: ‘The Government requests the submission of a valuation programme for the aquaculture industry.’ It bothers me that the representative Enoch thinks there is a need to make such a proposal. It is easy for the central government itself to submit St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, prospects for the development of the Norwegian fishing industry. The representative, Mr Enoksen, took part in the whole business of the nutrition committee and, together with the rest of the Stortinget, agreed to the following proposals in Innst. S. No 93 for 1998-99: ‘The Government is asked to develop long-term national strategies for the Norwegian farming industry, the aim of which is to secure the industrial framework conditions necessary for the development of the industry in Norway. Particular attention must be paid to improving market access for Norwegian farmed fish in the different markets.’ Further in the setting, it says: ‘The Committee will stress that the Storting must be kept informed of the competitiveness and market challenges of the aquaculture industry in the annual budget proposals submitted by the Ministry.’ And we got such a message in the budget proposal to the Ministry of Fisheries for the current year, and it was actually the government of which Enoxsen himself was a member, who put forward the proposal. So we got a first run message, which is: ‘The objective is to develop the strategies that, on the basis of an overall assessment, are best expected to promote the Norwegian aquaculture industry.’ The solid research environment of my marine value creation can grow from about 40 billion dollars in the current year to 240 billion dollars a year in 2030. If this is to become a potential that can be realized, we need to use the forces more constructively than proposing to create a value creation programme that the department is already running, and which is therefore an order that Stortinget, including the representative of Enoxsen, made last year. The challenges lie ahead before the Norwegian fishing industry. The level of ambition is high and, in my opinion, it is the only thing that is doing and that provides the right way for the fishing industry. The size has shown that our objective is that Norway should be the world's foremost fishing nation, where we are at the forefront of the development of a resilient resource management, and where we are at the forefront of the development of capture technology and industrial development. The challenge will be presented from research, including: can give us an answer as to which sea rooms, which in turn can provide the basis for the potential that we can realise. It is not enough to loop and repeat a track by providing suggestions that have been read and agreed a year ago. This is where we have to move on. Now it has to be direction and pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1343	First of all, I would like to say that the debate we have had today must be summarized by the fact that the Government's statement has been received positively. We are, of course, fully aware that when the issues gradually take over the political agenda after such a mini-general debate that we have had today, we will also be met with tougher thanks than has been the case in Stortinget today. Nevertheless, the debate on the Government Declaration has shown that the Labour Party Government will have the opportunity to find a majority in key areas of policy here in the United Kingdom – economic policy, distribution policy, knowledge and research, European policy, to name a few. I will use the rest of my contribution to express my views on the proposals that have been made during this debate. First, to proposal No. 1, promoted by the representative Sponheim on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. As I was in a line change earlier today, it is the Workers' Party's view that this proposal is contrary to the budgetary agreement concluded between the Centre and the Workers' Party, where one point of the agreement clearly states that changes to the financial sizes covered by this agreement, i.e. The budget for the year 2000, including the entire tax package, needs to be discussed between the contracting parties. It has not happened with this proposal, a proposal which obviously affects the tax arrangements of the year. That's one ratio. The second thing I want to say is that I want to refer to the Minister of Finance's posts, where he has explained that the Government will come to the Stortinget with a case on this in the near future. It is in this way also a superfluous proposal to vote for the Storting, so our request to the proposers is to send the proposal to the Government. But if it's put under voting, we're going to vote against on a principle basis based on the way the proposal is put forward and handled. So to proposal No. 2, which is from the representative of Enoxen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Center Party. Here I refer to the previous speeches, from the Tveiten representative, which pointed out that one year ago the Stortinget made a decision which, in principle, implies the same thing as the proposal put forward today – that is, a decision sent to the outgoing government, which may not have been followed up, but at least it is a decision that the Stortinget has been sent to the government. That is therefore, in our opinion, an unnecessary proposal. Of course, it can also be sent over. We will vote against the proposal on a principle basis if it is to be put under voting. Proposals Nos. 3 and 4 were both tabled by the representative Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3, which is a quote from the Workers' Party programme, is a good quote, but our programme proposals are followed up in Stortinget after prior proceedings. That will also be the case in this area. The government will come back to it, and then we will have it handled normally, so today we will not vote in favour of the proposal as it is put forward. For proposal No 4: We have explained in the government statement that the government of Stoltenberg will come back with this matter. There is a selection at work, and it will be followed up by the Government. It is also in our opinion an unnecessary proposal to vote on, and we will vote against it today. Finally, proposal No. 5, by the representative Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party. The structure of the bank is to be clarified first, it adopted the Stortinget when the credit notification was being processed, which was also mentioned in the statements made by the Minister of Finance. Before it is clarified, it is also not relevant to sell state shares, so this proposal therefore votes against the Workers' Party. That is my advice to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1359	At the end of a long day's journey towards night, I feel compelled just for the sake of order to comment on two review features in this debate. One is the surprising new cooperation that opens up, which I consider very positive. This suggests that in Norwegian policy we can go into a phase where it is possible to have a warm relationship across the sharpest ideological dividing lines in this room. Then it will probably also be possible to cooperate where there are no ideological dividing lines. Let me just say for the record that there are two completely different representations of what it is that has led us to a new government. I do not intend to interfere in any discussion between the Progress Party and the Centre Parties about it, just point out that the two manufactures exclude each other, because one production says that the government was involved in a vital environmental issue that had to do with CO2 emissions, the other production says it is the exact opposite. It must be possible to assume that at least one of the manufactures must have an inherent misrepresentation. It might be useful for future historians to agree on which of the presentations is the right one. So finally, I read with great interest the strong warning given by the outgoing Prime Minister in the VG a week ago about the leadership of other parties. I think that's a very useful reminder. I hope that it also applies to what is said from the Stockholm pulpit. Some things have been said during this debate, especially from the ranks of the former Prime Minister very close. It is useful that public reminders apply to all. It is written that it is an entirely honest matter to take out the jerk of his second eye, on the condition that you are also a little busy with the beam in your own.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1368	This has become a debate, on the one hand, on why there has been a change of government and, on the other, on the new government declaration. Both parts are natural in the first major political debate in Stortinget after the government change. The Declaration of Government was so general that it was not the basis for the major political confrontations. Moreover, it is natural for a new government to have a reasonable chance of getting started properly. It is only when the concrete proposals of the Government come forward that we see the impact it will have on its proposals, what it can work together on, and what confrontations we will have. As for the government change background, Inge Wohnung returned to it now. I don't think there's any basis for conducting that debate any more than I would remind you that, in my contribution to the debate on the gas power plant, it was also opened up for further consideration through a big message, which means that the contradictions in explanations that wages are now trying to make, are not as clear as he gave the impression. Otherwise, this debate shows that the centre appears as the real government option of the Labour Party government. We have also presented the broad lines of our common policy in 12 points, which will guide the cooperation we will now establish in the Grand Duchy. Finally, let me just say that with regard to the proposals made, I recommend that the Group of the Christian People's Party vote in favour of the two proposals put forward by the representative Lars Sponheim and by the representative Odd Roger Enoxsen, and by the Christian People's Party, respectively, and against the other three proposals promoted by others, which will not fully cover our policies in the areas to which they relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1379	There is not so much I shall sum up in this round in terms of the debate. Well, we could say it so that the government has actually been able to lean back a little bit and looked at the return settlement – 14 days later – between non-socialist parties. It must in itself be good news for Stoltenberg that he has been able to lean back and look at that settlement. Of course, as Mr Bondevik pointed out, there will be another working day when the concrete proposals come, and I think that is what should shape the political debate in the future. Then we'll meet the real choices. As for the background, which many people have been concerned about, i.e. the rematch itself, I agree without further delay with Inge Wohnung. I believe that this debate has shown very clearly that there are two entirely contradictory lines of argument, which those who put them forward are able to say that there is essentially agreement. I think everyone who has listened to the debate will know that you are not. And when Bondevik says that there was an offer for further treatment, he has, for example, clearly highlighted what it was about. It was not to accept the view of the majority of the population. The scheme was to receive several treatments, with a new gas-powered circuit after 1 June. It's okay and open and fair, but then you also get to say that's what you did, and not that you essentially agree with a presentation that says the exact opposite. So to the very proposals for decisions – with all the respect for the proposers: there is little going to be any different, whether they are adopted or not. After all, the status of the proposals in the Storting has been subject to a rather remarkable development. I have no major problems with any of these proposals, but I note that with regard to the option tax, Sponheim finds out, having been in government for two and a half years, that he has to promote such a proposal approx. 14 days before the new government proposes a similar proposal. That's precision control, but that's all right. As regards the value creation programme for the aquaculture industry, the size has already been through this. There is nothing wrong with one more decision since we have not yet received it. The two proposals from Hagen are fine. The Siv Jensen proposal is probably such that when you already have a mandate, it is actually a problem if you vote one more proposal. It may be considered as withdrawing the mandate, but it also raises questions about the need for the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1392	In my main post this morning, I expressed positive views on the Government's statement, and that I had the hope that the follow-up that will come later with concrete proposals will go in what we call the right direction in terms of clearer responsibilities in the government, greater degree of decentralisation of power and responsibility, greater use of competitive outsourcing and reorganisation of state units. The posts later, also from the Government, have not changed or reduced our hope that there will be interesting and good suggestions from the Government later. As I interpret the debate, there is a expectation in the Stortinget and a break-up of the main ideas on innovation, improvement and modernisation, but of course with a significant emphasis, which is also not disputed, taking of course into account all those employed in the public sector and their respective organisations. I therefore hope that there will be some concrete proposals. That's when it's going to be crucial, it's when it's going to be interesting to see what policies in this area the government will put on. I am therefore pleased with the debate, although I understand that the Labour Party will continue to vote against proposals that are actually intended to clarify. We're used to that. From time to time we have made proposals identical to the views of the Labour Party programme, but which you have chosen to vote against because you always have to do things yourself. I just get to say that it's the working form of the Workers' Party. I had hoped that you would have the opinion that you could clarify some important principles in advance in the Storting before you come to the specifics. I am thinking of my own two proposals, in particular the first concerning compulsory Norwegian training. The Labour Party has previously voted against this. So they haven't shown any willingness to follow up their batch program. That's what we think has been disappointing. With regard to the second proposal, it is sometimes important to establish a principle before practical work starts. If you have a principle established, it should be easier. We therefore, of course, maintain the proposals. In the case of proposals Nos. 1 and 2, we recommend our group to vote in favour of them. It may be, as it has been recently, different views on the need for a proposal, but we believe that when we agree with the wording of a proposal, we vote in favour. Of course, we also recommend our proposal No. 5, despite the views expressed by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1405	This has certainly been a positioning debate for most opposition parties, and that is when things get going in order, you really want to see what kind of cooperation climate it is in Stortingen compared to the new government. I think the debate has been shattered by too many painful tones between the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Centre Parties, and can only afford to give them that I think the next rounds of those kinds of tones should be taken at the Chamber. It's a little boring for the rest of us to follow up on it. Otherwise, I believe that the debate has been an exciting entry into the public sector and public services debate. I do not know where Carl I. Hagen has been during the rounds that have been, but that there have been some strong signals here about a large-scale privatisation and outsourcing of public services, I have not heard. On the contrary, I have heard quite a number of exciting approaches to some boundaries in terms of how and what requirements to impose on the further development of the public sector, not least a recognition that is beginning to spread in more and more parties, namely that more power and authority must be decentralised to individual institutions and to the municipalities, and that the weight is fairly equally distributed in this country. I think this can be very exciting rounds in Stortinget. But it has to be followed up with crowns, and it has to be followed up with a public sector investment as well, so that this is not just a way to shift responsibility for further tightening up. While we've been here, there's been a happy message for us. It is that the municipality of Klebu has been designated the best in the country – not by anyone, but by the NHO. ‘Klebu is distinguished because the municipality is considered to be a well-functioning institution and an attractive community, the NHO assessment states.Well-developed home services, many institutional places and a high proportion of women in the working life are concrete conditions that lead Klebu to the top of the unofficial Norwegian municipality championship. The municipality also receives a plus in the book for strong efforts on the cultural front, a high level of education and a high level of external migration. – Yes, this was fun, says the rapporteur in Kläbu, Ivar Skei from the Socialist Left Party...’ – according to TV 2 From this we can draw the following conclusions: 1st@item: inlistbox SV has too few rapporteurs.2. If SV sits for at least two periods, we deliver good results, humility is far into the third, and also not satisfied with the results so far. – Finally, I just want to say a few words about the suggestions that have been distributed. SV does not need to comment on proposals other than proposal No. 2, the others are clear that SV is against. Proposal No. 2 is identical to the size decided upon in connection with the treatment of the Innst. S. No 93 for 1998-99. However, if this is a decision that has been at the bottom of the drawer of the Minister of Fisheries or the Minister of Industry and that they from the central parties are afraid that the Workers' Party will not detect it, and it is therefore necessary to re-adopt it, then it should not be on SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1434	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1442	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1462	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 5, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Advance Party. In the light of the explanations of vote given, the President assumes that we can vote on proposal No. 3, 4 and 5, from the Progress Party, one at a time. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In order to intensify and ensure the process of integration, the Workers’ Party will make compulsory training in Norwegian for all refugees and immigrants’.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to base, inter alia, the renewal and modernisation of the public sector on the overall objective of meeting demand and providing well-paid public services to all, whether public or private, which are responsible for the production of services.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to sell shares in the credit fund as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1503	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of a valuation programme for the aquaculture industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1517	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal that the acquisition tax on options in employment should be decommissioned with effect from the 2000 income year.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-2.ana.ud1822e1531	It remains for the President to propose that the Government's statement at its meeting on 22 March 2000 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
