ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e40	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Torstein Tynning is dead – 68 years old. Torstein Thinning was born in 1932 in Eidanger in Telemark. After completing agricultural school, he was a farmer at the Valler Søndre farm in Eidanger from 1952 – only 20 years old. He became early involved in political work and in 1956 became chairman of the Telemark Young Right. In 1958 he became a member of the Central Bank of Young Right. After a period as vice president, he took over the chairmanship of the Young Right League in 1963 – a post he held until 1965. In parallel with the work in the Young Right, Torstein Thinning also engaged in local policy, including: as a member of Eidanger Municipal Council in the years 1959-64. After the municipal association, he was from 1965 to 71 member of Porsgrund municipal government and chairmanship. Torstein Thinning was elected to the Stortinget for the Right in Telemark in 1965 after being an alternate from 1961. He was going to be sitting on the Stortinget for the entire 20 years – until 1985. Torstein Thinning quickly marked himself as one of Right's young promising representatives. As a farmer, it was not unnatural that Thinning came to the Agriculture Committee, but he immediately showed that he combined thorough expertise in his own committee area with all-round knowledge and interest across the political spectrum. In later periods, Torstein Tynning was a member of the Municipal Committee, of the subsequent Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee and of the Foreign Affairs Committee. As a member of the municipal committee, he went to work a lot on housing issues, and he was therefore delighted to be Høre's foremost spokesman in a political area that was very central in the 1970s and early 1980s. From 1969, Torstein Tynning was already a member of the management of the Højre Storingsgruppe – first as an alternate to the Group Board and from 1977 as a member. He held for many years the important work as a whipper. He was a member of the Right Central Government in the years 1963-65 and in the years 1973-85. In 1977 he was chairman of the Right Programme Committee, which had the primary responsibility to prepare the party programme for the 1977 Grand Prix. Torstein Thinning was one of the Right's central policymakers for many years. Those who got the pleasure of knowing him and cooperating with him here in the Stortinget may remember him first of all as a co-representative who with mood and commitment threw himself into all aspects of the big business. Torstein Thinning had made it easy to win friends – and he had many of them in the Storting across all the political dividing lines. There are many who will remember Torstein Thinning with happy memories and great gratitude. We remember Torstein Thinning for his work in the Storting and brighten the peace of his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e57	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e60	I have the pleasure of conveying suggestions from the staging representative John Alvheim and myself to introduce outreach and preventive home care into the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e65	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e75	The Norwegian delegation went to the Sixth Party Conference, COP 6, assuming that the parties would be able to agree, even if we knew that this would be difficult. That is why I am very disappointed after the meeting in The Hague. This fall we have seen extreme weather situations with our own eyes. These coincide with what scientists tell us could be the consequences of man-made climate change. Although the damage in Europe is great and serious for those affected, they are modest in relation to the situation in many developing countries. The representative from Honduras, who was the last to speak at the closing ministerial meeting when the breach was a fact on Saturday morning, reminded us that what had taken his country 50 years to build up was torn away by Hurricane Mitch in one week. In such a perspective, the differences that remain in the negotiations between the parties appear to be small. The objective of COP 6 was to take decisions under the Action Plan of the Conference of the Parties to Buenos Aires in 1998. This includes decisions relevant to the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol — in particular on legislation for the Kyoto mechanisms, international trading of allowances, joint implementation and the green development mechanism, CDM, greenhouse gas uptake and regulatory enforcement systems. [[inks]] In addition, the Action Plan covers Conventional issues related to the financing of actions in developing countries: technology transfer, capacity building, adaptation to adverse climate change impacts and measures to address negative impacts of the instruments used to mitigate climate change. The work of delegates on negotiating texts in The Hague in the first week produced small results in relation to the most difficult questions, and when the ministers arrived, we faced very many unresolved questions of both a political and a technical nature. The Dutch Environment Minister, Jan Pronk, made a tremendous effort to lead the conference. He stressed the importance of concentrating the discussions of ministers on the overall political issues, in order to bring them into the work on the texts. Regrettably, these discussions did not give the desired progress. Two days before the conclusion of the Conference of the Parties, Pronk presented a compromise proposal covering the most difficult political issues. From the Norwegian side, we considered this to be a good basis for further negotiations. However, the main groupings – G-77, the EU and the major countries of the Umbrella Group – were all strongly opposed to Pronk’s proposals. These reactions were predictable and consisted largely of attempts by countries to obtain their original positions on the basis of the negotiations. The reactions also showed that the parties were still far removed from each other in the main policy issues. It was also clear that a package was being negotiated, where there was a need for agreement on all elements. Negotiations were very difficult, and a number of questions in Pronk's proposals were never addressed. When the time was running out, there was still a disagreement about most questions. Some of the largest countries in the Umbrella Group and the EU therefore made a last attempt to obtain results on some single issues: complementarity, i.e. the relationship between the implementation of national and international climate action to achieve the commitment, uptake into forests and the establishment of a system for the enforcement of the Protocol. As we know, eventually this experiment failed as well. I would like to stress that even if there had been agreement between these countries, it is very uncertain whether the G-77 group had accepted the solution. It's also unclear to what extent G-77 was especially behind the solutions that seemed to stand out in other areas, and this is one of the most uncertain factors in the further process. Since we did not get any final solutions, we have to interpret the progress of COP 6 with great care. However, there was considerable movement between the parties in a number of areas, and some issues seem entirely or far to be solved. The most positive result was enough in relation to the reporting and processing of information from the parties – Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Protocol. There's only a few points left to solve. The provisions in these areas will be a key prerequisite for the operation of the Protocol, because the information provided by the Parties will be the basis for determining whether the obligations in different areas are being complied with or not. It was agreed that by January 2006, developed countries should submit a separate report, describing ‘demonstratable progress’ by 2005 in terms of reaching their commitments. The outcome is in line with Norwegian positions. The report shall include information on: instruments and measures to implement the Protocol, including the implementation of legislation and the establishment of institutions to implement the policy of historical and future trends in emissions, how these instruments and measures will help countries to fulfil their obligations; In this context, developing countries also want to report in relation to the Convention obligations on technology transfer and capacity building, as well as how to seek to avoid negative impacts on developing countries from the use of an instrument to limit emissions. It was suggested that countries should submit views on how this information should be presented and evaluated by April next year. The EU has not been willing to report on how Member States aim to use the ‘boble’ – Article 4 of the Protocol – in order to meet their commitments. The provision for the bubble allows EU countries to redistribute emissions between themselves if they remain collectively below the EU ceiling. Information to the other parties on this issue is particularly important if the EU is experiencing difficulties in meeting its overall commitment, because each country will then be responsible for the commitment it has taken on through the burden-sharing. This question has not been resolved. Developing countries have particular expectations that their efforts will be increased in relation to commitments related to: technology transfer capacity building for the implementation of climate action transfer of financial resources measures to address adverse impacts of climate change measures to minimise potential negative impacts of i-country instruments These obligations are primarily linked to the provisions of the UNFCCC. Before COP 6, we assumed that concrete proposals in these areas could be a key to a successful outcome. Negotiations are both linked to a general increase in transfers and to their channelling. The Netherlands committed to provide 200 million. gold in new funds for climate change purposes in developing countries. On behalf of Norway, I also expressed my willingness to bring up new resources. In particular, the financing issue was difficult, with high ex ante requirements from developing countries and very limited mandates regarding new/increased resources in a number of countries. The developing countries were strongly opposed to attempts to link new funds with future concrete emissions commitments for developing countries, which the United States considers necessary to ratify the Protocol. Significant progress has been made in areas such as capacity building, technology transfer and support for adaptation in the most vulnerable countries. On the other hand, there was little movement on the more controversial issues, such as the negative effects of climate action on developing countries dependent on fossil fuel exports, and the OPEC’s claim for compensation in this context. In the negotiations on the Kyoto mechanisms, there was a move towards a solution to the question of complementarity. Discussions focused on different methods of qualitative assessment of national measures. The green development mechanism has a broad interest among all parties because it opens up project cooperation between countries and developing countries. Progress was made on the more technical issues during the Hague meeting, but one did not go further in clarifying institutional issues and questions about the possible exclusion of special types of projects. It seemed that one, in line with Norwegian views, was in the process of reaching agreement among the countries that one should abstain from nuclear projects, but some developing countries will still not accept this. From the Norwegian side, efforts were made to reach agreement on simpler procedures for the approval of small projects, especially in the field of renewable energy. We have also worked to demand environmental impact assessments for projects and to take biodiversity into account. There was no progress on whether projects aimed at greenhouse gas absorption could be included in the Clean Development Mechanism. From the Norwegian side, we still signalled a restrictive position on this issue. We are in principle for the inclusion of such activities, but believe that a number of difficult technical and methodological issues need to be resolved before such projects can be approved. The parties reached a high degree of agreement on the interpretation of existing provisions relating to the integration of deforestation, reforestation and reforestation in developed countries in relation to the emissions obligations during the first commitment period. For Norway, the impact of this Article is likely to make a small, positive contribution of less than 1 pst. The major issue of greenhouse gas absorption related, inter alia, to: forest has been the provision allowing inclusion in the inclusion of ancillary activities also in the first commitment period. Forests and agricultural land bind large amounts of CO2 without special climate action. If such commitments were to be taken into account, the commitments in the Protocol would be diluted. Not least for Norway, such inclusion could significantly facilitate the fulfilment of the emissions obligation in the first period. However, in the negotiations, Norway has argued that this type of admission should not be credited to individual countries’ emission obligations during the first commitment period. From the Norwegian side, there has been a clear condition for the inclusion of new activities in relation to the period 2008-12 to demonstrate that they actually lead to uptake, in addition to what had happened in any case. However, in the long term, after the first commitment period, we have been open to wider inclusion in, among others. forest, but then together with numerical obligations taking into account the different situations of the countries in which such admissions are made. Among the countries in particular, the United States, Canada and Japan wanted to agree on principles for including admissions that would be more effective for them during the first commitment period. These included: at this point, the possibility of agreement between developed countries at the end of the beach. However, developing countries have had strong views throughout the process on the regulatory framework for the inclusion of new activities, and even if there should be agreement between developed countries, this may still be one of the most difficult points in the negotiations. There is a great deal of agreement to establish an enforcement committee, the ‘a compliance committee’. Pronk's proposals include: until a country that has released 1 tonne too much has to pay back 1,5 tonnes, which lies between the positions of the EU and some countries of the Umbrella Group respectively. The enforcement regime contains a number of other elements. Some of these have to be further processed the next time the parties meet. It is proposed that several new institutions should be established under the Protocol, for example: as regards enforcement, governance of the Clear Development Mechanism and the expert group to assess the reporting by the parties. There is still considerable disagreement as to the principles underlying the composition of these groups. Norway has spent a considerable amount of time in the international negotiation process for many years. This applies both to issues that are particularly important for developing countries to meet their emission-related obligations and to issues that are important for developing countries. In particular, we have worked to ensure that the legislation under the Protocol is well professionally sound, ensures adequate transparency and enables environmentally sound, practical and cost-effective implementation of the commitments. For example, these considerations are behind our efforts in relation to the Kyoto mechanisms and how to deal with greenhouse gas uptake, including: in forests. For the last two years, Norway has been on the board of the negotiations. Last year, negotiator Harald Dovland led one of the two sub-groups of the Convention, the Technical and Scientific Committee. He was also re-elected in this function for another year in The Hague, which means that Norway will still lead one of the two groups in which the negotiations take place, with the opportunities for initiatives this gives. In The Hague, I was asked to help Pronk lead one of the consultation groups. Together with my colleague from India, Mr. Suresh Prabhu, I was given responsibility for one of four groups to look at issues related to the enforcement, reporting and processing of information, as well as a further process to disseminate information on instruments and measures. In the final phase, I also coordinated negotiations on the question of supplementaryity and zinc. Based on the Norwegian positions, we have constantly worked on textual input to get collective solutions based on environmental integrity. We have worked through both formal and informal channels. This applies, for example, to forest issues and to supplementaryity, where we have made various contributions to a qualitative assessment of the parties’ implementation of national measures in relation to their use of the Kyoto mechanisms. In climate negotiations, it is very difficult for small countries to influence the outcome if they stand alone. This situation is something both the previous and the current government have taken the consequences of participating in the so-called Umbrella group, which otherwise consists of Australia, Canada, Iceland, Japan, New Zealand, Russia, Ukraine and the United States. As long as we are not members of the European Union, we will not be able to be involved in EU coordination. The Umbrella Group initiative was taken in Kyoto, and it started primarily as a cooperation on the design of the international allowance trading legislation. Later, members have found it useful to discuss a number of issues both related to the Kyoto mechanisms and most other issues. The Umbrella countries have different starting points in some areas, and there is no primary objective of reaching common positions if the national mandates do not provide a basis for this. This is different for EU countries, which are to arrive at common positions. In some cases, Norway has had positions closest to the Umbrella group, while in other situations we have been closer to the EU. On many issues, the rest of the countries together. The Umbrella Group has common positions primarily in relation to the Kyoto Mechanism legislation, including: agree that their use shall not be subject to quantitative limits. Most of these countries have come a long way in the technical preparations to implement national quota systems that they want to connect to the international system. This technical work, including: with national registers and control systems, has been very useful in designing rules for the registration, reporting and review of information also at international level. Norway has coordinated its work on the Clean Development Mechanism and thus plays an important role in the design of the regulatory framework for this mechanism. In the case of nuclear projects to be approved within the CDM, the view of the Umbrella Group is contradictory. Norway's resistance to this, and our restrictive attitude to including zinc, have been highlighted in the negotiations. In relation to zinc and forest issues, the Hague meeting showed that there is a high distance between the parties within the Umbrella Group. Here, in particular, the United States, Canada and Japan wanted to increase the credit for the absorption of CO2 in particular. forest during the first commitment period. As I have pointed out, Norway considered that this would result in an undesirable deterioration of the protocol, although this could in itself alleviate the situation for Norway. There have traditionally been no coordinated positions in the Umbrella Group on foreign issues. However, we agreed on a proposal which was recorded during the ministerial part of the Hague meeting and which was generally received positively by the developing countries. Among other things, there were: called for greater support to developing countries, inter alia: through the GEF, the global environmental facility. Of course, the discouraging outcome in The Hague does not mean that climate action is over — either internationally or at national level. Extensive bilateral and multilateral contacts are now needed to find ways of bringing together solutions. COP 6, the Conference of the Parties, is not formally closed. Jan Pronk has been mandated to reconvene the parties as appropriate. This may occur during the meetings of the sub-institutions of the Convention in May and June. Nor can we ignore the fact that what has happened can lead to better environmental results at the next crossroads. We already have examples of that. The Cartagena Protocol on the Safety of Biotechnology Management under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity was adopted one year in overtime. However, the Kyoto Protocol's emissions obligations are already starting in 2008 and it is very important that it be ratified as soon as possible. On the domestic arena, the Government is actively working with various instruments and measures to ensure that Norway is complying with the obligations of the Kyoto Protocol, including the provision to have shown ‘demonstratable progress’ by 2005. In my view, there was nothing happening during the Hague negotiations that would pave the way for the future national climate policy, as determined by the Storting's treatment of the Kyoto message and the Energy Communication. As I explained in the Questionnaire on 15 November, the Government will present a big message on the future climate policy in spring 2001. The notification will address both the instruments of climate policy in general and a national quota system in particular. Key issues that will be addressed in the notification are: the use of climate policy instruments in general proposals for the introduction of a national allowance system assessment of the occurrence of obligations and the emission sources to be covered by the instrument use in addition to the allowances system, both in relation to emission sources not included in the system and instruments that are additional to an allowance system, such as: research and development, and instruments that can be used before the quota obligation occurs, showing Norway’s ‘demonstratable progress’ by 2005 I hope that the movement we despite all this in The Hague will be a sufficient basis for completing the international work on the Kyoto Protocol. Norway will continue to be a driving force in these issues internationally, and the Government will work to ensure that we comply with our obligations nationally. We can't afford to lose the Kyoto Protocol. I both hope and believe that we will be able to get to the goal when COP 6 is taken up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e205	The President will propose that it be opened for a short comment round limited to an entry of up to 5 minutes per post. batch group, and a final post from the Council of State. - No objections have been raised. One sees it as confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e210	Thank you very much to the Minister for the Environment for a thorough and constructive presentation. Work on reducing greenhouse gas emissions must continue. It's a commitment to our children and future generations. That we failed to reach an agreement in The Hague is a disappointment, but it is a pleasure that the conference has only been concluded temporarily, and that the work is likely to continue in May or June. In the future, we and all the other countries must use to clear the ground for an agreement that we can finally agree on. The four working groups set up to prepare the meeting for the summer are important in this respect. Norway’s participation as the leader of one of these groups gives us an important role in the further work. There is every reason to give the Minister for the Environment and the Norwegian delegation a tribute for the efforts they made during the Hague negotiations. This also provides the Director of the Center for Climate Research at the University of Oslo, Knut H. Alfsen, in the Evening Post 26 November: ‘Remotely, Norway appears to have played a positive role in these negotiations. Norway has taken initiatives and has taken an active part in reaching a compromise.’ The Dutch Minister for the Environment, who led the negotiations, also considered that Norway had excelled in trying to play a constructive role in the difficult negotiations. Norway does not want an exact assessment of how much of the obligations can be met when purchasing allowances. Nevertheless, the purchase of allowances shall only be complementary to national measures. This is the same position that the central government also had. The EU wants to know a roof, so that at least 50 pst. the reduction must be carried out in the home Member State. However, the EU will not be able to hold any hold on to intra-EU trade in allowances. Nor is it the case that Norway has intervened in the United States on this issue. Norway is concerned that we will have a qualitative assessment of which measures can be negotiated internationally. The United States, on the other hand, is absorbed by the quantity and wants international trade in quotas not to be a supplement but to be the main focus of the measures. If we are to achieve global results in climate action, we must have an agreement with all the countries involved. An agreement without, for example: The United States, which stands for 36 pst. of the total emissions of CO2 in the i countries will be of little value. After all, the EU and the United States came closer together in important areas during the Hague meeting. It gives hope for the further process. Norway does not want the capture of CO2 by forests to be counted as requested by the United States, Canada and Japan. If they were to have full impact on what they wanted, for example, they would be able to do so. This means that Norway could meet its obligations without triggering any action. Such an arrangement could also conflict with other international allowances conventions. It would be to make creative accounting at the expense of the environment to take account of the capture of CO2 by the forest. According to researchers, the developing countries will be hit hardest by climate change. The I countries have therefore promised support for measures that can mitigate the damage, for example: flood protection. Equally important is the ability to address climate issues and get an overview of your own emissions. Technology, knowledge and competence are needed for this work. Of course, the need for countries to contribute to this financing is obvious. It is now important to establish an appropriate system for channelling financial transfers. So what about work in the future? Norway must also play an active role internationally. We must constructively get the parties representing the extremes to meet and unite. Not least, we have good opportunities to do this through our role now as the leader of the group to work on the enforcement of the agreement. What about the national measures? An international agreement would give us important guidelines on how to build and organise a national quota system. However, pending an agreement, we need to develop national measures, including arrangements for a national quota system. The government is doing this well, as the Minister for the Environment explained, and in the light of the government's work, the Stortinge will have a good opportunity to discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e243	We in the Progress Party are not concerned about the result – or the lack of results – of the Hague meeting. We record that the parties are far apart, and we doubt that there will ever be any agreement that will come into force under the Kyoto agreement's intentions. We believe that the entire Kyoto agreement, and the negotiations around it, bear the mark of a horse trade in which the product is CO2 and the basis for trade, i.e. the content, at all events, is not present. Since we in the Progress Party are against the Kyoto agreement, I will spend some time justifying the cause of our scepticism. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change believes that man-made CO2 emissions are important for global warming and that this results in climate change. We in the Progress Party, like a number of scientists, are sceptical about that. It is only to record that there is considerable disagreement among researchers about the scope and the possible significance of this to the climate. It is important to bear in mind at the back of the breach of the Hague Agreement that the Earth has undergone a number of climate change and ice age, which is quite natural, including the fact that there is long-term rainfall in some areas and droughts in other areas. It is a fact that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change cannot at all explain the significant changes in the climate that have occurred in previous times. In this context, I would like to point out that human-made activities contribute about 3 pst. of the total global CO2 emissions. There may well be some reason why the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change cannot explain the previous climate variations. The content of the Kyoto Agreement is based on the prediction of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. What will happen if more recent research comes to a different conclusion than the UN Climate Change Pact? We often hear in the media that more recent research shows that what you believed in before, no longer votes. It also happens in the climate debate. I'm here to refer to James E. Hansen, a researcher at NASA, the Institute of Space Research. He has long been a central driver of the thesis of a man-made global warming. He started the climate concern during a congress hearing in 1988 by saying that it was more than 90 p.m. that people were about to warm up the earth. However, in a recent article, he is responding to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change by claiming for himself that there is no fossil fuel and CO2 that is the cause of global warming but other greenhouse gases. In other words, more recent research produces other results. Not knowing too little about the climate system and its dynamics to separate any human contribution from the natural, James E. Hansen's article is an example. When the Kyoto agreement was clubbed through three years ago, the agreement was honoured as a historic first step to curb so-called global man-made climate change. The major problem now seen in the Kyoto agreement is that it is an agreement that is very unfinished and has many holes and gaps. It says a lot about how much each country should reduce its emissions, but lacks legislation on how it should be done and what elements should be taken into account. Before it is in place, countries cannot know how much it will cost them to meet their commitments, and before the price tag is ready, the agreement will not be ratified. I get that, and I'm very happy about it. What is now important is to clarify to the Norwegian industry what action the Government will now take after this break. In the view of the Progress Party, it will be absolutely necessary for industrial companies to know whether the Government intends to pursue a so-called climate policy that distorts competition, increases costs and risks of owners and investors withdrawing from Norway, which in turn could lead to job losses here to countries. For the Progress Party, it is very important that the Government provides industry with stable and good framework conditions that are similar to the industry in the countries with which we compete. One question I'm left with after the presentation is, how long are you planning to negotiate this Kyoto agreement? You've had a break in The Hague now, and you can see that you're going to continue in May and June. I strongly doubt that one is able to reach an agreement. I expect the Council of State will explain in its final comment whether it intends to continue the negotiations, and whether it will then run a separate national race to reduce these so-called greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e264	After the world’s leading climate scientists have presented even safer, even darker and even worse forecasts of the climate we are facing, after a mildly abnormal and disturbed climate both in Europe and in other regions, after rose blossoms and buds on bushes and trees at the strangest times here at home, then perhaps one could expect that now one must be able to agree in The Hague. But then the opposite happens; the climate negotiations are collapsing. It wasn't enough will to do anything about the challenges. Own interests stood in the way, costs were too high – no one would sacrifice anything. Climate change is a result of anthropogenic emissions. When climate change changes air flows and ocean flows, the weather also changes. It's going to be extreme. We've seen that all over the globe. But we're not going to get the worst. Developing countries will be the hardest hit, and they have every reason to make tough demands in the negotiations. After the Kyoto Protocol was finalised in 1997, all the parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party, said that this was just a first step on the road. After 2012, the job becomes even worse and even more demanding. That's exactly why the defeat is the bigger. You couldn't even agree on how to go the first step. This is precisely why the Christian People's Party expects the Government and the Workers' Party to really put themselves on the line now, so that, first, we fulfil our own obligations, and second, the negotiations will help to get back on track. For the central government, it was an important principle that the main weight of emission reductions should be taken at home. We should be able to demonstrate demonstrable progress by 2005 through concrete actions. This would provide a basis for the use of the flexible implementation mechanisms, including: Purchases of allowances. So to get the last pass, it's going to have to do the first two things. These flexible mechanisms shall only be complementary. This is confirmed in the Kyoto Protocol. A supplement means that at least we carry out half of our obligations at home. At this point, the government has been unnecessarily vague lately. In the course of the Stockholm Summit on the Kyoto Agreement in spring 1998, the Labour Party stressed the importance of Norway implementing a significant part of the obligations of national action. I would therefore ask the Minister for the Environment to be quite clear that, following Norway’s assessment, a supplement means that more than half are taken home as national measures. This is a key issue in the negotiations. If one is not to go in to quantify this, Norway’s message should be clear and clear: we take the main emphasis of the measures at home. If not, we are open to a reasoned suspicion that we are really interested in buying ourselves free. The failed negotiations in The Hague make it even more important to do the job at home better, and far better than the government has so far shown. And then you see that the first thing the government does when you get home is to say yes to a new gas power plant. But climate change emissions are not reduced by increasing them. The gas power plant in Forests results in Norway coming in line with the United States in the reported increase in greenhouse gas emissions. So Norway is at full speed in the management of climate change hosting. The government goes from the precautionary principle to the hope-good principle. This will not only weaken Norway's credibility in international negotiations, it may also affect our positions, because the rules of the game are not in place. Norway is now at risk of having a self-interest in getting as bad a climate agreement as possible, an agreement with holes and a weakened enforcement regime. It will affect the environment. A sharp increase in emissions at a time when they should be reduced also makes the reduction much heavier, much tougher and much more expensive to take when it first comes, and it does. Not least, it will be very difficult, not to say impossible, to demonstrate demonstrable progress in the form of implemented climate action by 2005. As it looks today, with the government's policy, we're actually going to show a demonstrable decline by 2005. It will also be more difficult for Norway to be credible when we argue for flexible implementation mechanisms, not least when it comes to bringing developing countries with us. Everyone will believe that we are most interested in buying ourselves free and hope that it will be done well in the end. In this case, we cannot allow any rest cuts. We have to work along two lines. First of all, we have to sweep at our own door. We have to do the job here at home. In other words, the Government must urgently propose measures to reduce Norwegian emissions. I hope we don't see any new gas plants coming, because then the job gets even worse, and then it gets even worse to understand the population for the tough measures we have to take in other sectors. The second thing I hope we will see is that the government is working hard internationally to get the climate negotiations back on track, that the government in this context makes it visible that at least half of the climate measures will be taken at home, and that we will get the national quota system linked to this in place as soon as possible. I hope that the Minister for the Environment can come back to both of these questions in his final statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e290	Right, I'm sorry you didn't reach an agreement in The Hague. I share the disappointment of the Council of State over the lack of results. The right view of climate noise as the greatest environmental challenge of our time. Although some researchers give the Progress Party back coverage, there is little doubt that the vast majority of researchers believe that man-made greenhouse gas emissions can lead to climate change. The right takes into account the precautionary principle. Therefore, the Right is a strong supporter of the Kyoto Agreement and is committed to both national and international measures to control anthropogenic climate emissions. The main challenge now is to prevent the lack of consensus in The Hague from leading to a setback in getting control of climate problems. Now it is important not to lose momentum, but to maintain the pace, both in national action and in getting the negotiations back on track. Norway should be a driving force in this work. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate both the Minister for the Environment and the competent officials and women who handled the negotiations on behalf of Norway in The Hague. Although Norway is a small player, Norway played a constructive role in trying to find solutions in the many conflict-affected areas, in particular between the EU and the so-called umbrella group where the US is in the driver’s seat, but also bridge-building between the countries and developing countries. At the heart of the negotiations is the question of flexible implementation mechanisms and, in particular, quota trading. Right is a strong supporter of the flexible implementation mechanisms, and I would like to point out two important reasons for that. Firstly, they can contribute to a cost-effective environmental policy. We get the most environment out of each penny. It makes it possible to pursue more ambitious environmental policies, both nationally and internationally. In addition, allowance trading itself will be involved in revealing and revealing the weaknesses of the contract. If the quota price is low, it could mean that there are large gaps in the agreement or that the agreement is too ambitious, and that is a strong signal that the agreement should be tightened up. Therefore, trading in allowances has two important impacts: cost-effectively, it enables a more ambitious environmental policy to be pursued, while at the same time identifying any weaknesses in the agreement. The right agrees with both the current and the previous government that no ceiling should be set on how much can be implemented through the flexible implementation mechanisms. I must admit that I am amazed that former Councillor Frafjord Johnson is now using cheap rhetoric against the current government, which is actually in the same negotiating positions as the government of Frafjord Johnson was a member. The government is responsible for negotiating on behalf of Norway. I therefore do not want to go into all the details of the negotiating positions. The right is essentially in agreement with the positions taken by both this and the previous government, but I would like to stress that the challenge in terms of forest is to find methods that do not weaken the agreement, but that the forest's ability to absorb CO2 can be exploited. The Council of State stressed that the Hague meeting and the lack of results that do not underpin the national Kli-Ma policy. I'm glad. It is important that industry in particular knows what they have to deal with. There are many good examples that industry is now starting to compete in developing a technology that can reduce emissions. This is because strict requirements are being imposed, and because cost-effective instruments are being used to further stimulate industry. It is important that we get the national measures in place, so that the industry knows what they have to do with. The right is in line with a modern and future-oriented environmental policy. This means that we want a cost-effective environmental policy both nationally and internationally by putting the national quota system in place. And let me remind you that the Storting was leading was and early out when we already two years ago decided to introduce a national quota system. The right also wants an offensive investment in research and new technologies. And I must say that I am disappointed that the Workers' Party and the Centre's two consecutive years are reducing the appropriations for energy research. This is an area where more effort should be made, and therefore the Right proposes a strong boost for energy research in next year's budget. Let me end by stressing: we need international commitments and ambitious agreements, and I hope that during the spring we can get the Kyoto agreement in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e318	I must begin by admitting that it is quite amazing to hear the comments of the committee's vice-president in relation to the importance of the precautionary principle and preventive work, in the light of what the Right actually does here at home. Of course, as the committee's Vice-President and also the Council of State say, it is a great pity that there was a breakdown in climate negotiations. It is obvious that the requirements of the Kyoto agreement are firm, but it has become clear in what has now happened that once again it is the economic interests that are ahead of environmental interests. There is more concern about fancy ideas about how to buy free from emission reductions than about how to really avoid the dramatic long-term consequences of man-made climate change. In these days it would be enough to look out of the window to at least think about both two and three more times in relation to the consequences of the use of fossil fuels. Norway has been a perpetrator of climate issues for many years. Our independent role as a non-EU member has given us a unique opportunity to be a driving force in international negotiations. However, a majority here on Stortinget, with the Workers' Party and the Right as drivers, is about to make us a mess of the environment. Yesterday, SFT granted an industrial power station Mid-Norway concession and emission permit to build the most polluting gas power station that has so far been approved in Norway. The Government’s decision, with the support of the Right, not to impose stricter requirements on CO2 emissions in Norway than in the rest of Europe, makes it free for those who will build highly polluting gas power plants. Years ago, I asked Jens Stoltenberg, while he was Minister for Food and Energy, the following questions in a line exchange: How are we going to avoid the two gas power plants that the Workers' Party now wants to build becoming ten in the next round? Jens Stoltenberg's answer was that we are now dealing with the application to build two gas power plants. Talk about short-term thinking in one of the most long-term questions we have to deal with! It was open today already at the time that it would be impossible to say no to the next applications when one had first opened up on a principle basis for the construction of gas power plants. Everyone has to be judged by what you do, not by what you say you do. It also applies to this government. The Labour Party and the Right have lost any credibility in climate issues. Of course, a comfort to them is that there is still one party in the Stortinget that is worse, and that has less credibility – the Advance Party. It is of little comfort to us as a nation. Norway’s credibility in environmental issues is given on the boat by the same batches that have now also become spokespersons for the construction of gas power plants here. Finally, it would be enough to quote some words from the excellent leader who was written in the evening post today, and I want to end with it: ‘That is precisely why it is also very regrettable in this context that the Hague Climate Change Conference ended without results. The longer it goes without the international community taking the consequences of the principles that, after all, were agreed at the Kyoto Conference three years ago, the more freer leeway has economic and political interests to counter these principles. Unfortunately, the government and the majority of the population use waiting time to provide the basis for Norway to become one of the world’s worst climate offenders. Worst of all, this could lead to unnecessary costs both politically and economically for Norway when climate change forces the international community to take responsibility.’ There is no need to write articles when writing such excellent managers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e340	When I hear the articles of the Progress Party in this room, it strikes me that they represent an environmental policy that, in relation to an equally responsible babysitting policy, would mean that a sent youngster out on the highway because no one had proved that they were going to be hit. And maybe there was a scientist or two who thought that babies are so flexible that they manage to get right between a Mercedes and a Ford and sneak out into the middle of the discount, and thus they survive. This is the position of the Progress Party in environmental policy. They're not just easier to read and write, they're absolutely illiterate. The problem is that it's the ones that got it right. When negotiations in The Hague break down, it is the Progress Party that is right in environmental policy. When the bulk of the population is going to build gas power plants and say tut and drive to new tons of CO2 emissions, it is the Progress Party that gets right, even if everyone sits here and smiles and smiles at where they are on the ground. When two days ago the bulk of the population adopted a transport policy for next year where the most important thing was to get lower petrol prices, while bus, track and the rest got just as bad and worse than before, it was the irresponsible environmental policy of the Progress Party that became the environmental policy of reality. We have to put an end to this, because all the others in this case have said that they have recognised that a large majority of the world's climate scientists say that a large part of the responsibility for the new climate problems is man-made emissions. So now the great majority in this room must go from word to action. We are pleased that the Government is clear both in terms of nuclear power stations and in terms of forest as possible measures during the first negotiation period. But we are very disappointed that Norway has re-entered an international climate debate as an oil nation and not as an environmental nation. It was like an oil nation we left last time, and it was like an oil nation we left now when we couldn't help putting a roof on how much of the reductions we're going to take responsibility for ourselves. If you mean anything by supplement, a supplement by my definitions can't be more than half. This means that Norway needs to tighten up and support the demands of the EU to a greater extent than Norway and the United States and many other countries, namely that more than half, most, of the reductions must be done by ourselves. This is essential in order to bring all the developing countries together, because of course they will immediately think that now in the countries have been the engine for the world to have had climate problems, and when we want growth for our inhabitants, they will be sitting there in the high, rich north and buying themselves free. I can't. Norway must therefore take a much more offensive view of this. And it seems now that the center parties can also help support that it will be a roof, a different position than when they themselves were responsible for the climate issues in this room. What's the big challenge for Norway now is that if we're going to have any chance at all to play a leading role in the international negotiations, we have a great job to do at home too. We are pleased that the Government will not only put a climate message in the drawer and then wait for progress to be made in the international negotiations, but that we will take a concrete look at what we can do in Norway. It's fine with national quotas, but now we have to come from word to action at home. It was then a very flexible solution yesterday – I understand that flexible solutions are the key word in these negotiations – to go in for the development of gas power plants in Forest with new 2 million tonnes of emissions, while at the same time having the same attitude towards new gas power plants in the West and just sitting and watching transport emissions increase, while at the same time having high ambitions in environmental policy. The longer you push the big turnaround in front of you, the harder it gets, the more expensive it gets, the harder it gets to an agreement, and the bigger the task we leave to our kids. And they have the jam more than enough to keep on with from before!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e355	The President is of the opinion that even if one is politically disunity, one must be able to describe his political opponents in a different way from what the representative Kristin Halvorsen no. did by calling them ‘analphabets’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e359	The left shares the disappointment expressed by the Minister for the Environment when she mentioned the collapse of the Hague negotiations. It is extremely important that Norway contributes to the opening of new negotiations, and it is extremely important that Norway is also among those who call for the non-sophisticated solutions to be chosen when reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The left believes that at least 50 pst. obligations must be included in national measures. It is identical to what then Environment Minister Guro Fjellanger clearly stated when she was with and commented on these questions, among others. in this house. It is therefore not true that the current government is as clear at this crucial point as the previous government. The left is pleased that the Spring Summit receives a communication from the Government, where national measures are announced and described. We also expect a set-up for national allowances. That notification should make it clear that Norway has a very difficult job to do to meet the obligations arising from the Kyoto Agreement. I think many actors, industry, transport, etc. will be surprised when you see what it costs to meet the commitments that Norway has. This is reinforced when the Government now adds to the large-scale expansion of gas power plants. A yes to the forest development, which was given yesterday, is a long step in the wrong direction and makes a demanding job even more demanding. The idea behind the government's gas power policy is the same one behind the collapse in The Hague: short-termity and a lack of willingness to take the economic steps needed to bring about the clean and environmentally friendly solutions. Even though you know you're going down from the tree you're in, you keep climbing higher and higher. I think the Workers' Party can go on this line, well supported by the Right, because the environmental opposition in the Workers' Party has not been weaker in 20 years than it is now. We have a choice here. We know that gas power plants can be in time for a few years. And we know that if we wanted to make the framework conditions right, we would have been able to help out the clean solutions, thus making a good contribution to a good environmental policy and a good signal to the outside world about the level of ambition Norway has. What is now policy weakens our credibility internationally. The SFT director, for whom I have great respect, said yesterday that we must now look for some other areas where we can be a country of the past. The government’s over-management and castration of the SFT means that they can no longer carry out the job they are assigned to do in important areas. With the forest development Norway will be 27-30 pst. on the Kyoto targets. The United States will have an increase from 1990 to 2010 of 34 pst. Target images must therefore be taken in order to identify who is going to be the worst in this picture — the United States or Norway. What we have now been told by the Government is that in this competition they intend to hang with them at the end. Norway is getting a self-interest in getting a worse Kyoto agreement in terms of targets than we need. This is also a signal to the outside world, not least the developing world, which weakens our confidence. It is now of great importance that we in Norway have a climate for a different and better environmental policy. That's why environmental issues are essentially for the Left, and it's going to be essentially for the Left to the Next Choice. We simply need a climate for a new government. What happens in these questions that we are discussing today shows how impossible it will be for the centre parties to be together with the Labour Party in government. On the contrary, it is important to have an option that puts long-term and environmental issues at the top of the agenda and that is willing in practical policy to take the consequences of such an engagement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e374	I want to thank you for the recordings after my presentation. I am particularly pleased that so many of the representatives are clear in their emphasis that we cannot take the chance of ignoring the significant and increasing consensus it has in international research that greenhouse gas emissions are man-made. In this work we have to do what we can, both nationally and internationally, to reduce emissions, and there is no contradiction between these two arenas. We have to work on both, as Hilde Frafjord Johnson said in his post. I see a link between these two tracks, which means that having international cooperation mechanisms in place will be very important for bringing about the national emission reduction work, not only in Norway, but also in the large countries, which it is absolutely essential to get involved in this work if emissions are actually to be reduced. Let me say this in this round on gas power: Based on the Stortinges assessment of the need for power in Norway in the future, the alternative to gas power is worse: the import of double-polluting coal power from other countries. Furthermore, there has been a clear premise for the Storting, and it is also for the Government, that all use of gas in Norway should be aligned with the commitments we have made in the Kyoto agreement. For a gas nation such as Norway, it is important to build an industrial environment that can identify increasingly better and more environmental ways of using gas. Therefore, stronger support for research into CO2-free gas power technologies is needed to enable it to be used in Norway as quickly as possible and to break the emission curves resulting from today’s gas power plant images. This will be done together with other national measures, such as an quota system and measures in other sectors, as I said in my presentation, and with which we will come back to the Stortinget. I have to say two words about Norway's further role in the international negotiations. As regards complementarity, we will work towards the clear view that the Kyoto mechanisms should complement national measures, and a large part of our commitment will be implemented here. We don't think it's appropriate to define this with a number. This is no less obligatory than the other country adds. We want to implement the same kind of policy as other countries do. At the same time, we will work towards a rigorous enforcement system that will ensure that the agreement is not undermined, and we will continue to work to assist developing countries with financial resources so that they can join an international climate agreement. I strongly reject unreasonable accusations that Norway should have any self-interest in a poor international climate agreement. We will use all the forces to achieve the best possible result, an environmentally sustainable agreement, but an agreement with which all the countries agree, for the very simple reason that this must be the first step in international climate action if we are to move forward. We will have ample opportunity to come back to the discussion on the national measures when we promote to spring the big message I have explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e392	The debate on the presentation is closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for the Environment on the climate negotiations be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e406	Let me first give tribute to the proposer of Document No. 8:26, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, because he has addressed this matter, and because we have come a little further in terms of assessment and possibly to get a treatment offer for the gambling addicts. There is no exact overview of how many gambling addicts we have in Norway today, but one figure used in only the 12-18 age group is about. 3 500 people. Those who are plagued with this propensity and the load have problems in several contexts, which in turn have great consequences for the family, close relatives and the community around them. Among other things, one tries to obtain funds to drive this waste through criminal acts, through prostitution, and also by pledgeing its own property, so that the whole family can stand on the bar after a short period of time. This creates family tragedy, and it creates social clients. There was a large Nordic conference in Oslo about this with the gambling addiction issue in October this year, and it showed that there is now a relatively high interest on the subject. What surprised me and scared me somewhat when I was a participant at at least parts of this conference was that there were figures that Norway has a very high number of slot machines compared to Denmark and Sweden. We have approx. 3 000 Correct figures must be 30 000, cf. Later on, slot machines are installed in this country, while in Sweden, about 7 000 people are authorised and used. 6,000 of them. In addition, there are a number of over 3,000 so-called games that stand in shops and other places, where one can take out the gain in terms of goods, but not in cash. In Denmark, the Danish Tipsdienst has informed that there are 12 000–14 000 vending machines. In Denmark, a new law on such slot machines will also enter into force from 1 January 2001. It allows for cash payments, but the arrangement permission and location conditions become more stringently regulated than they are today. It is also worth noting that our two neighbouring countries have an age limit of 18 to be able to play on vending machines. I think this is part of it that you have to notice and start from when you're going to look at this with gambling addiction problems. Moreover, it is gratifying, I think, that there is a large majority in the social committee, all except the Progress Party, who say that we need to evaluate a good treatment offer for those affected by gambling addiction, and that one needs to look at how one can in practice provide both help and treatment so that people can get out of this problem. There has been some discussion about the device for help and treatment. The Committee makes it relatively transparent with its recommendation, and asks the Government to make appropriate proposals for measures that can both limit the development of gambling addiction and at the same time ensure a good treatment offer for the gambling addicts – that one looks at several sides here. The social and drug services law is mentioned, and the provision of services in the psychiatric health system is also mentioned. I hope, for my part, that you can find treatments that are related to the social service side, and that one through it can develop an offer there, among other things. also eliminate the financial uncertainty and coverage of such treatment services from home — whether municipality or county.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e424	I think the case rapporteur mentioned 3,000 slot machines, I guess it should be 30,000, as it says in the setting. Because if it had been 3,000, we would have had very few slot machines in Norway compared to other countries. The proposer wants to include in the social services law a legal basis for dealing with gambling addicts. The Progress Party is of the opinion that this should be resolved within the mental health system and not by a separate paragraph or an addition to the social services law. In the group of children and young people aged 12 to 18, it is referred to here, approx. 3 600 people who are believed to suffer from gambling addiction. The progress party is of the opinion that when we talk about children, it's the responsibility of the first parents. But when it comes to the step that parents are not able to deal with this properly and they feel that they are losing contact with the children because of this gambling addiction, it should be resolved in cooperation with the children's and youth psychiatry, and not under special arrangements. The Progress Party has, as I said, taken the view that special arrangements should not be established for the treatment of gambling addicts, and in particular not such a legislative change as the proposer proposes. This group will then be considered and stigmatised in line with drug users, in the law. The Progress Party does not reject the fact that gambling addiction is a problem for some people, but any treatment belongs to the mental health community and, as I said, does not belong in special schemes for this group. The rapporteur pointed out that the Progress Party was the only ones who did not join the proposal. That's right. But if you go into the attitude that the Social Committee has put forward, you will see that it builds, among other things. on a number of slot machines and some aspects of which the Progress Party is not as convinced have the context that it seemed to be the case rapporteurs they thought they had. As I said, the Progress Party wants this to be addressed in the mental health system, and not with special schemes for this group. I am promoting the proposal of the Progress Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e439	Harald T. Nesvik has made the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e442	I am pleased with the treatment given by the Social Committee to this Document No. The 8th proposal. I think it might be the first time here in Stortinget we go through seriously and discuss the problems associated with gambling addiction as a fact it is necessary to do something about. That is a good starting point for me to arrive at a result that will serve the purpose of this proposal. I can also say that initially it is not important for us in the Christian People's Party where you place responsibility, only responsibility is taken. When I suggested that this should happen in relation to the Social Services Act, it is related to the experience that both I and others have had, that it is exactly the care that has taken responsibility for the problem. The problem has been addressed by addicts on their own initiative before becoming a public responsibility. On the other hand, when discussing these things with people in psychiatry, it is often felt that the addicts are of secondary interest – working with them is not so challenging, so interesting and so professionally stimulating. Therefore, it was my concern to refer to the social services law § 6. But, as I said, the most important thing is that we take responsibility, and I think that the committee does so in an excellent way in the proposal that we have here. Now the case rapporteur has also gone through the many things that underlie gambling addiction, and I think that in the future we will experience that there will be addiction in several areas that we may not have so much understanding of today. For example, I can. show that an institution, where I myself am on the board, which has had a temporary period of treatment for gambling addicts, also got people who were addicted to playing on the Internet, as clients, i.e. Internet addicts. There may be a lot of gambling addiction in the future, and then it's important, as the setting says, to take this into account in the areas that it will naturally hear at home. I therefore fully agree that making some sort of adjustment is not very foresight. But it is important – I stress it – that it is addressed, and that we do not feel that municipalities, as it has been experienced and which I refer to in the grounds for the proposal, refuse to contribute to the treatment of these because it is not permitted by any law. Now the Committee says in a way that it is allowed, and I also believe the Minister of Social Affairs in his speech at the conference to which the rapporteur referred, in a way, expressed the fact that there is already an opportunity in the law to interpret it so that addicts can be covered by it. And if they do, it's fine. However, since there are clearly municipalities that understand this differently, clarification and clarification are necessary. I would also like to stress that I am very pleased that there is now an overall approach to the position of the Social Committee. That means that we're kind of trying to stick to what was said in the debate on the matter before this, to be a little led was, so you can be prepared for what had to happen. I appreciate that, and I'm counting on it, as it's already signaled, that this government will not only follow up, but will also be creative in terms of finding both solutions and methods of communication to municipalities and states how best to do this, so that it benefits families who have gotten the problem so close to life that in many cases they have been solved. Finally, if the President allows it, I would like to ask the Minister that he also think about financing this, and I am thinking about funding research and development in relation to the problem of gambling addiction and treatment. It's going to be an important point. I could imagine, as I suggested in connection with the Lottery Act, that one might, for example. put it on a line where one took a certain percentage of the turnover of the games and set it off to a fund for just such things, or that one took the funds directly in and used them that way. It could be 1⁄4 pst., it could be 1⁄2 pst., in any case, that also in this context one evaluates the funding of this, so that we don't get a funding problem afterwards. So here we're talking about an annual turnover of 17 billion kroner – 17 billion dollars, and then there would be a couple of dollars there to deal with the problems that these games create. Otherwise, I would like to express joy over the setting that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e457	The representative Nesvik made me and others aware that there had gone a zero in the number of slot machines, and it's good to get it clarified. So we have 30,000 slot machines in Norway, it's more than twice what Denmark has, and that's the triple, probably over what Sweden has, and when we base the population on it, this becomes quite a big difference. That also gives me an opportunity to comment on what the representative Nesvik said on behalf of the Progress Party, that in the farm they did not believe the number of slot machines, etc. had something to mean in particular. Then we have the discussion about availability, as we have it in the debate on drugs and in other contexts. And I think the availability here is pretty important. There will be a clear test for those who are gripped by gambling addiction, if they have access to games when they're going to fill petrol, when they're going to buy bread, etc. And I think the new things that also come in here -- we have a lot of TV games in Norway, we have what the representative Marthinsen said, Internet games and addiction to use there -- makes us have to look seriously at developments in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e464	Let me first say that I am pleased with the increased attention to the problems that result from gambling addiction. There is a clear need for action to meet them. Instead of creating special care for people with such problems, we need to acquire sufficient skills in the existing health and social services so that each person there can get the help he or she needs. That's why I don't want to be in favour of changing the Social Services Act. There are similarities between dependence on gambling and dependence on drugs in the same way that there are strong similarities with coercive psychiatric disorders. I see gambling addiction as a complex problem. It will vary depending on whether there is addiction that dominates, whether there are underlying mental problems, or whether there are other issues that come in. It is therefore important to cooperate between several types of services, in particular those for drug users and mental health protection, and those for the youngest addicts. In addition, most people have ever had such major financial problems that social services are very often a very important partner. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has provided grants to Renåvangen for a period of three years, which is a rehabilitation measure for drug users. The grant is granted for the development of a treatment scheme for gambling addicts. Also the Blue Cross in Oslo has received grants to initiate the development of a model for outpatient treatment of gambling addicts. The regional competence centre for drug issues — East, which is anchored in the drug department of Sanderud Hospital, is based both in the Law on Mental Health and in the Social Services Act, will, as of 2001, develop competence on gambling as a specific area of responsibility. The Ministry expects health and social services throughout the country to benefit from the competence under construction. It would be natural, in my view, for us to now gain experience from the measures that are being set up. It also concerns the economic implications of these measures. I also remind you that the Stortinget has already asked for an overall review of the framework conditions for private lotteries and state games. Furthermore, I recall that the Minister of Justice of 16 November this year in Stortinget informed that the administrative responsibility for the Lottery Act is transferred to the Ministry of Culture, which on behalf of the Government will return to Stortinget with such a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e477	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e480	I perceived the minister as a little vague, but still in the right direction in relation to what I myself think about it. It is essential, as the Council of State said, that we have a range of competences, but that one can build this up in one place, so that one gets a concentrated effort and reaps experience. I fully agree with that. What really made me want a never-ending post was that I think it's nice that we've now also got this up in the social committee, which says something about the need to go through and look at the basis of addiction. In the Justice Committee we have not discussed it so much. There has been more to it than that: how to secure the income they need from voluntary and humanitarian organisations in order to do a good job. But we're in an ethical dilemma. I have underlined it a few times before when we have debated the positions of the Justice Committee on the Lottery Act. We're in an ethical dilemma, because on the one hand, we want Freedom Norway to have enough resources to do all the positive and beautiful things that they do. On the other hand, it's a huge problem that these means get them largely through machines and games that create addicts who get their lives ruined. That's why it's great that we now have a kind of communication – I hope so – between the Social Committee and the Justice Committee, so that we can also see things in a slightly broader perspective here in Stortinget, and not just from one side. Finally, I would like to thank you for the posts that have been held here, and which I believe show that we are now in a starting point for something that may become important for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e493	The debate on case No. 2 is over. [[Footing, see page 856]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e509	In 1965, the series ‘Norwegian mountain pastures’ gave a comprehensive overview of vegetation and grazing conditions for reindeer in Finnmark. Erling Liftingsmo was the leader and coordinator of this work. The main conclusions of Heftingsmo were that the low heaths in southern parts of the Finnmarks range in the early 1960s were of great power with a thickness of 10-15 cm. It was recorded ‘small reindeer tracks as ski tracks in the low mat’. The research company NORUT IT has published several reports on the grazing situation at Finnmarksvidda, among others. from 1973 to 1996 satellite data. The reports contrast sharply with the description of decimetre thickness layers with humid reinlav in the 1960s. For NORUT’s research reports, only 15 pst. of the reindeer pastures in Finnmark was heavily populated in 1973, was 42 pst. High bite and 50 pst. In 1996 there was a total ban on beeswax. At the rate at which grazing areas become degraded, most of the former grazing areas will no longer be used for reindeer farming in a few years. Numbers from grazing areas outside Finnmark – I can refer to figures from the Tree Layer and Hedmark – show that fewer animals give higher slaughter weight. Half as many animals per day. the area which, according to the figures in West Finland, could result in a double slaughter weight for each animal. This means that the industry will be able to employ as many people as it is today, even if the number of people in the industry is significantly reduced. Greater weight per person animals also cause fewer losses, since well-nourished animals will be better off during winter and will not be exposed to predatory attacks as easily as possible. But that also means commitments that the industry has not wanted to infuse, in terms of far fewer animals for the largest holdings. When the reindeer industry in Finland reported more than 50,000 lost animals last year, more than a third of the declared total reindeer per year. 31st March this year, it tells of a livestock that is in total ecological imbalance. Behind the figures, there is also an animal tragedy of difficult to grasp, with severe suffering for each animal, regardless of whether the losses are caused by emaciation, attacks from predators or a combination of both conditions. It will be to begin at a completely mad end if the overbeet is to be solved by the shooting down of as well the Yves and Gaupe- as well as the royal eagle trunk in Finnmark, as some within the industry have mentioned. Instead, a modified replacement system could stimulate the guessing of the animals. Last year, it was paid, I guess, $17 million. kr for reindeer taken from predators in Finnland. Instead, aid based on the risk of loss, such as: by reference to the number of jervehi in each grazing area, the practitioners who take the best care of the animals will be left with the greatest profit, on condition that the animals being fed to slaughter yield income, while the animals leading to the loss have already been replaced before the loss occurred, and the nutritionist must then himself rely on covering those losses. In the case of loss of animals, each practitioner must bear a responsibility, and it is therefore important that the Storting determines that domestic recycling is subject to the Animal Protection Act — when the Storing now has that matter under consideration. It will also stimulate better supervision and guessing. The cleaners also represent a significant environmental problem at large. From 1992 to today it is estimated that it is built about 700 km with reindeer only in West Finland. And that's as far as I know, a longer distance than that council has to travel to get to work from the North Trøndelag. The project was an agreement between the Rein driftsstyrelet and the Norwegian Rein driftssamer Landsförbund and was adopted against the nomination of the various Finnish authorities, including the professional bodies of the Rein driftsAdministration. NORUT had carried out an impact assessment showing the large terrain wear around the existing fences. Now it says about. 200,000 pressure-impregnated fence posts around the perimeter. The poles are impregnated with copper, chromium and arsenic and are so toxic that they are classified as special waste. The sticks are assumed to have a life span of approx. 50 years, but it keeps saying something down in the soil. Other conditions that have a strong impact on reindeer operations are the large increase in bar area vehicles. Traces can be seen in the terrain that will last for several decades, and wear only increases, because the density of bar area vehicles has increased, not only for industry but also for recreation. It itself represents a significant problem of increased wear and tear on the Finnmark range. I have been concerned here with various relationships relating to environmental and economic aspects of reindeer management. But there's also another side I want to put a lot of emphasis on, and that's the social aspects of the practitioners and their families. I spoke recently with Kjell Sæther from Karasjok who was visiting here in Stortinget, and who had taken the trip down to try to talk to various staging representatives about the social distress seen in his own municipality Karasjok. What he's describing is alarming. A number of families no longer have sufficient income to pay their own bills. He also describes a state of affairs at the Karasjok school and in different environments in Karasjok, where conflicts arise and in part bullying, among others. by pupils, due to poverty that develops in the wake of this. There are consequences the whole Storting has a responsibility to take seriously. The lack of nutrition leads to social distress for reindeer and their families, while the commitment to the Sami cultural carrier makes it difficult to break the traditions of the ancestors and find another outcome. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to a comment by the Socialist Left Party, which was supported by a majority in the context of the discussion of the Equalization Communication in the Stortinge in ours. I want to read that note in its entirety. ‘The majority will indicate that surveys carried out in the interior of Finnland... reveal similar living conditions problems in this area as in the interior of Oslo east. It is therefore important, in the view of the majority, to pay particular attention to this area, in line with the attention given by the message to the inner Oslo East. Despite the problems of living conditions, the migration region has had a positive development. Local authorities have launched a series of measures at local level. The continuation of the conversion programme ends the current year. With the challenges facing the region, it is precisely in the years to come that, in the view of the majority, there is a need to follow up the conversion work. ‘If this work is to succeed, it is in the view of the majority, depending on an understanding of the situation, and state action in this region must be coordinated with the actions it seeks to implement locally.’ I and SV with myself record that no funds have been allocated for 2001 for the continuation of the conversion measures, but that one should use the ordinary instrument. It is clear that one thing is that active measures need to be put in place in the industry in order to reduce the purity and, in particular, the reindeer need to be significantly reduced in West Finland, and I expect that, in fact, the Council of State can confirm that it wants to do so. But another thing is that you cannot close your eyes for the ringing effects of it. The aim must be to reduce the number of operators in the industry. The situation is similar in many ways to that seen in fisheries, with large sea-going trawlers fishing for the sea empty, while a coastal fishing fleet is not a threat to the environment but is pushed out of the industry. You can talk about the factory jets. It is clear that the grips that need to be taken must take account of this. That means that it's not the smallest practitioners, those who represent the least problem purely organic, who are to be hit hardest and hit first. It's like what's happened when you've gotten someone to quit the industry through conversion; it's the smallest practitioners who go out, and the biggest practitioners who stay, and then you get even bigger flocks on fewer hands, and then the problems increase because you have less basis to look after your big flock, the loss rates increase, and the wear on the wide range increases. When the Council of State is now going to answer the interpellation I have held, I hope he can be concrete in relation to the steps that the Government is planning to take, and that this will not only be left to the parties in negotiations. I also hope that the Council of State will be able to give a clear signal as to how he believes that the Sameting has dealt with these questions. In my view, the Sameting has been far too small in terms of how they intend to solve these problems, towards the industry that is really the largest Sami cultural carrier, where one should expect the Sameting to clarify its role in relation to the reindeer drift.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e569	I share in many ways the interpellant's concern about the conditions on the Finnmarks. We are facing a situation with serious consequences for both the natural basis and the reindeer industry. As the interpellant emphasizes, this is a development that has been going on for a long time. In this context, it might be in the right place to look a little bit back. The development of reindeer farming, like agriculture else, has been largely guided by change processes in the rest of society. From the 1950s until today, reindeer management has changed from a nomadic way of life and a labour-intensive industry based on self-storage to a clean-up operation based on technology and money economy. The snowmobile came in the last half of the 1960s and made it possible to control a larger family with less labour than before. Before the snowmobile’s entry into force, the reindeer in the family flocks had to be adjusted to the human labour force that could be mobilised by the household members. This was now completely reversed, and provides part of the explanation of the reindeer growth in the 1970s and 1980s. This dramatic growth in the purgatory led to the achievement of a level that had never been achieved before in 1989. The number of holdings also had the same development. There was great optimism in the industry during this period, among other things. stimulated by the reindeer management agreement of 1976 and new reindeer management law of 1978. However, there was little understanding that this expansion was at the expense of future carrying capacity and stability for reindeer operations. Mainly, this unfortunate growth hit Finnmark, while areas further south went free for various reasons. The result is now – a total imbalance with the grazing base, totally unacceptable reindeer losses, productivity approaching zero, and an economy that is disastrous for many of the families that have based their livelihoods on reindeer management. The size has debated these questions many times. On the part of changing governments, a number of initiatives have been taken to reverse developments. No one has so far succeeded in this. Of course, we should not reduce the pressure on the basis of ecologically sound use of the natural areas of Finnmark. The government is very concerned about these questions. Not least this concerns the Minister for the Environment and myself as the specialist council for reindeer management, animal protection and the state's land in Finnmark. We're concerned about the environment, we're concerned about the animal protection aspects, and we're worried about the people who have their entire life and income base of reindeer operations. So what are we going to do to make this not just empty words? Norway is internationally obliged to take biodiversity into account. The Convention on Biodiversity, which was ratified by Norway in 1993, provides guidance for environmental protection authorities, which can be followed up by measures under the Nature Conservation Act. Clean-up operations are easily fired when such issues are discussed. There are more that travel in these areas, and they're putting tracks behind them. Damages resulting from the use of motorised land vehicles on the Finnmark range must also be attributed to non-reinforcement. There are, among other things: municipalities and local environmental protection authorities are responsible for ensuring the nature values against destructive traffic and activities. However, in my view, the main challenge is to adapt the purity to the natural basis. Although reindeer operations have been hard tried in many ways, such as: through increased predatory pressures and pressures against the land base of other groups of users, this must not remove the focus from the reindeer question and obscure the relationship between the interpellant and all correctly pointed out. Of course, the problems facing reindeer management in terms of losses caused by predators and pressures against the land base are central to the Government, but it belongs in a different context than this. As users of these natural areas, the industry itself, through its organisation, must also take a stronger responsibility in relation to the policies and strategies that must be used to manage the grazing resources at Finnmarks. It also means that the industry represented by the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund must dare to work with the whole and think alternatively. The dilemma of the free use of limited common resources by individuals is not specific to the reindeer operation in Finnland. In the fisheries sector, the same problem was encountered at the end of the 1980s, but it is now generally accepted that there is no room for uncontrolled and unpredictable individualism and that, therefore, framework conditions must be set for the individual. Throughout the 1990s, measures to adapt the reindeer to grazing resources have been an important part of the negotiations on the annual reindeer management agreements and their treatment by the Storting. However, the voluntary financial measures involved in the grubbing-up agreement have proved to have a limited impact. During the reprocessing negotiations for the 1999-2000 agreement, the parties agreed on a protocol providing for concrete measures to reduce the reindeer numbers in Finnmark. The agreement meant that through the spring of the slaughter season, i.e. 1999-2000, voluntary depopulation would be carried out on the basis of plans drawn up by the relevant reindeer districts. If the voluntary measures were not implemented, legislative measures would be introduced during the subsequent slaughter season. When, during the reintroduction negotiations for the 2000-2001 agreement, it became clear that this agreement would not be followed up, the negotiating committee of the State provided that legal requirements for depopulation were to be imposed during the slaughter season we are now in. The NRL then announced that they would break the negotiations if the State had agreed to follow up the agreement on the imposition of law-based measures. At the same time, the NRL asked to discuss the situation with the government and with the Sameting. This process is further explained in the St.prp. No 65 for 1999-2000 on the reindeer management agreement 2000-2001. The new government which joined in the middle of the negotiations had to note that it was not possible to carry out the statutory depopulation with possible follow-up by coercive measures, as agreed a year earlier, because both the NRL and the Sameting were opposed. On the basis of these circumstances, the Contracting Parties agreed to withdraw from the negotiations the matters relating to redundancies on the basis of the Law on reindeer management. This is now followed up by work on determining the upper reindeer per. regional and, where appropriate, also per holding in Finnmark. It is the territorial governments and the Reinholding Board that are empowered to do so under the provisions of the law. From my side and from the Government, we fully support the fact that we thus establish the framework conditions for the individual district and holding in Finnmark. It is appropriate to implement unpopular measures by the authorities. Such measures are difficult to implement without the support of other actors who should naturally assume co-responsibility. However, I experience that these, including the Sameting, fold back when it comes to the piece. I find this very regrettable. A reduction in the purity of the most heavily burdened districts will have consequences for most holdings. Therefore, the aim of the reindeer management agreement is to be made the main instrument for remedying the economic problems created by the necessary regulation and adaptation of the reindeer stock for those who are to live from reindeer management. It will be important for the state in the future reindeer agreement to focus on just what the interpellant also had to say, that a lower number of reindeer that gets a larger growth does not have to mean a weakened economy if one manages to get a value related to each kilogram, which is significantly larger than what you can get out of the reindeer today. For this reason, the reindeer plant has been included in the value creation programme for Norwegian food production, and I aim that reindeer plant should also contribute financially to the value creation programme for Norwegian food production by providing for a separate allocation from the reindeer plant agreement in return for the value creation programme for Norwegian food production during this year's reindeer plant negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e615	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e618	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo addresses a serious environmental and food problem in his interpellation. In the 1960s, a comprehensive overview of vegetation and grazing conditions for reindeer was provided in Finland. The main conclusion was that the low heaths in southern Finnland were of great power with a thickness of 10-15 cm, as the representative Ballo said. Over the course of 30 years, the situation has become quite different. 50 pst. of the pastures is depression. With this development, we have come there today that there is an urgent need to do something in the short and long term. When we know that there are almost 400 domestic holdings in Finnmark, with a number of about 130 000-140 000 grazing animals, the nutritional basis for all of these is no longer present. Here I believe a joint responsibility should be taken. We have to get a better balance between the number of pure and the grazing basis. The main responsibility lies with the state, but the reindeer itself must be actively involved in finding solutions. We know that for these nutritionists it's not just to get rid of the nutritional basis and start with something new. All their lives, these people have been reindeer - this is their life's work. The worst thing that happens in such situations is animal trading. Emaciated reindeer are easy prey for predators, and I believe that one of the things we should do in terms of immediate action is limit the stock of you in Finnmark. In this context, I would like to highlight the action of a state hunting corps adopted in the revised national budget in June of this year, which is now under way in Finnmark. Hermann Sotkajervi, who is established in the position, knows Finnmarkswiss better than anyone else, and then folds can be carried out more effectively than before, while this person can be a coordinator between the leading authorities and the reindeer owners. However, I also consider guessing schemes to be important prevention measures. This would also dampen the conflict between gardeners and reindeer owners. There are also other unfortunate wears that Finnmark has to endure, and it is particularly bareland driving. We know that bar area driving can cause damage to nature for decades. Snowmobiles also cause damage in snowy areas. The County of Finnmark has on several occasions signalled to the Ministry of the Environment the need for a comprehensive mapping of driving injuries and tracks to be carried out on Finnmarksvidda. I fully agree with that, and it should start as soon as possible. We can't sit still and watch that the former Finnmark range, with all its biotope diversity, eventually becomes a desert without further reindeer feeding opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e641	Environmental damage and wear in Finnmark's land areas has been a well-known phenomenon for many years, without changing governments addressing the problems and presenting instruments that can reverse a very negative trend, which really means something in practice. Researchers in Norway’s geological survey have found that reindeer management is a greater threat to vegetation in the northern regions than emissions from Nikel. Degradation caused by reindeer has damaged over 70 pst. of the Finnmark ecosystem to a greater or lesser extent, and a high percentage of the damage will be irreversible for a period of several decades, even if it is now being cleaned up. The erosion processes that have started due to overgrazing may end with desertification on the Finnmarks. Finnish, Russian and Norwegian researchers have worked together with surveys, and satellite images from the past 20 years clearly show that more and more areas are being destroyed. When the reindeer flocks eat or trample down the vegetation over large areas, wind and rain can wash away the soil, and a new vegetation does not fasten. Today's policy towards the reindeer industry leads to an environmentally destructive chaos with which Finnmark is not served. This is a policy that has largely been supported by the interpellant party. The Progress Party considers the grant and regulatory arrangements as they do. has been counterproductive in the annual reindeer management agreements, the reindeer management law and the conversion programme. It's a well-known economic phenomenon: if significant state subsidies are injected into an industry, we get overproduction. The specific arrangements have contributed to a significantly greater number of professionals than the nutritional basis should provide, with too many animals and degradation of nature as a result. What we need is to implement a policy that can deliver all the necessary results, both in terms of environmental and animal protection and business economic criteria. New planned economic driven actions will hardly be more effective than the grant and regulatory schemes that have been tried in the past. Where penalties are to be applied at all, they shall be directed towards the total number of pure persons within a given area and shall not take the form of an upper ceiling per. the holding, which will produce small units with a very vulnerable economy. The Progress Party will have a transition to a market-based system. We need to move away from failed state-led measures to a market with real prices. The market will provide the answer to the number of professional and clean holdings available and which can ensure a sustainable economic return for the reindeer family.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e656	It's an affordable interpellation that's taken up here today. When the Council of State in its response to Ballo uses adjectives as unacceptable and disastrous about the situation that has evolved within 90 p.m. of the total area of Finnland for which the State is responsible, the warning lights must flash more than just flash, because there is not a new situation which has become apparent during the last year. This situation has been preached and talked about in the Norwegian boom over several years, and developments in Finnmark in the reindeer industry and the ecological situation have only gone in a worse and worse direction. Let me just say as an intrusive statement to the interpellant that I agree to the extent that the bodies with total responsibility have not been precise enough. You might not be able to say that about the interpellant either. With reference to the lack of measures to go on, for example, predatory game, which we look to take up to 75 pst. by some flocks, at least in economic terms in this area we have a problem that needs to be solved in some way. One cannot just point out that it is in the smallest flocks that action needs to be taken. I think robust devices will also be a strength in terms of stability and development. It's the purest fall when we see in the last few years reindeer agreements that in the relationship between the state and the NRL you can't come to an agreement on issues that go on the upper reindeer. It can't go on like this anymore. The size asked for greater resources to be channelled in the future in the context of the treatment of the reindeer management agreement in order to provide local authorities with greater reindeer management expertise, as well as resources for monitoring and control and possible depopulation. It should be in the middle of the concept referred to by the Council of State: taking unpopular measures if necessary. However, it is also important that the Council of State ensures a proper, orderly and good dialogue with the local practitioners and the local actors, including the local units that sit and have responsibility for the administration of the Finnmarks. If this dialogue is not reached, the course will only continue as it has evolved so far. That is why I hope that the Council of State will now take an initiative and ensure that the Stortinget receives what has been requested, namely an evaluation of the reindeer management during the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e674	That interpellant takes up is a matter of very great importance to Finnmark and to the reindeer. But I have to take the opportunity to comment that the conversion program we had in Finnmark and in the sewerage was a winding-up program. I think we should take inward recognition that we did not use that opportunity to provide motor assistance to those who would modernise the reindeer. We have neglected by not focusing more on the other values and possibilities of reindeer than meat raw materials. Women as reindeer managers have been pushed out of the industry in this process. We experience over and over again that girls do not actually have the opportunity to inherit the holding. In this way, this industry is constantly losing new opportunities. Low pasture is an important part of the material basis of the Sami culture. It makes this case triple serious. We have not succeeded in the necessary modernisation to exploit wide resources. I think there are also certain elements in the reindeer culture and the traditional management that we need to focus on and perhaps modernise, for example. the concept of ‘reindeer success’, which is a very important concept in reindeer management. Having a ‘cleansing success’ is the success of increasing the flock of a large flock. We have to get a modern view of reindeer drift, and I think here we find pre-emptive women in particular. We can increase the value of the meat by serving it in the lowvoose, and many women have done so, but they are stopped by rigid rules and by the Food Authority. There is also insufficient administrative practice on the part of the authorities as to how to organise the fencing of domestic animals. When a person goes into these matters and looks at reindeer workers who have tried to get additional food for reindeer in a small flock, they are surprised at how short product development has come, and how little help has been given by the public in modernising the idea of the value creation of reindeer meat. I would like to welcome this debate very much, and to have a high level of factuality and come up with a better track to make reindustry an economic, ecological and culturally sustainable activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e687	It has been demonstrated that the environment and therefore also the natural basis are unbalanced at Finnmarkswirdda. The working party takes responsibility for ensuring that this imbalance is corrected. Many in Finnmark rely on nature to provide a basis for their industries, but it is also crucial for well-being. Purification is the most important industry in this area and, at the same time, is an important traditional Sami industry. The size has stated by several decisions that the long-term objective of sustainable reindeer management is a prerequisite for economic sustainability and that the reindeer management agreement must be a means of achieving this. However, for parts of Finnmark, the agreement has not been a sufficient tool for adapting the number of grazing resources available. The large losses and thus the reduction in production are currently creating economic and social problems for many reindeer families in Finland. Pasturage shortages, harsh winters and increased wild game populations are the main causes of this. The Labour Party believes that the negative situation needs to be corrected by an effort both from the public sector and – not least – from the industry itself. The imbalance between reindeer and resource base must be given the highest priority by the authorities. In particular, it is important in the long term that Sami youth be given opportunities to increase their skills, which can benefit the industry, for example: in the case of product development. The interests of clean-up operations must be safeguarded in the context of land issues. The functioning and organisation of the clean-up management must be reviewed with a view to obtaining an administration that can work more targetedly in relation to the national sewage policy. The division of districts and the reindeer management law must be reviewed. Media has helped to create a picture of a reindeer industry that is exploiting natural resources. I am convinced that, to the best of my ability, reindeer operators are trying to get their output from what nature gives, but often have to give up for natural and climate variations. It could be, for example, has been interesting to document the many nuclear bombings on Novaja Semlya in the 1960s have had a negative impact on nature. Taking into account other societal developments, the reindeer industry has used technological aids to facilitate physical work, including: the use of motorised vehicles, the construction of cabs, etc. Of course, this has also contributed to increased pressures on nature and increased operating costs. A one-sided illiteracy description will in the long run give rise to depression and passivity in the industry. The present needs of the reindeer industry are positive measures and a hand-declaration in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e704	I've noticed the different recordings, which I see as useful in the discussion. I record that both the Right Party and the Advance Party are in charge of larger flocks. It makes the parallel to the fishing industry visible in many ways, and the Progress Party goes extremely far. Much of the reason for today’s development is that there has been no apparatus that has ensured a link between grazing grounds and the number of animals. But the policy of the Progress Party would have made this development even worse, because what they want is a slut and drive attitude in relation to the industry, where the industry gets to do whatever the industry wants. Then you'll see if it's not going well. Of course it doesn't, and that's exactly Finnmark's scope an example of. I'm not going to put Ivar Kristiansen in the same booth, because I think he was more nuanced, and I actually agree with some of his considerations. But I disagree when he says that the flocks should grow larger, because I think that many could have survived with smaller flocks, provided that a total basis for grazing had been secured. As I was in my first post, it turns out from other pastures, for example. in Trøndelag and Hedmark, and also in Sweden, that the slaughter weight rises significantly if the grazing basis is better, so that fewer animals can be handled and still deliver the same quantity, or even more, to slaughter. As Randi Karlstrøm was in, one must be for relations in the industry, be for the culture around it, and have humility and respect for it. But we have to consider it an industry, and that's important. It is important that development does not happen further than on the industry's own premises, because then it goes wrong, it becomes the strong one's fight against the weak. I think the Council of State is reasonably clear in recognising the problem that this represents. I think that's good. I also think it is good that he addresses the Sette's handling of those questions until now, because there has been no good handling. It must be expected that a body that is just supposed to take care of Sami interests, raise Sami questions, give clear answers, at least make a focus on these questions visible and not be as elusive as it has been at present. What I probably miss from the Council of State, and as I hope he will come back with renewed strength, is something about what has now been intended to be done on the action side. The situation has existed completely since the 1970s. I could have referred to an article that stood as far back as 1978 in the magazine Rein driftsnyt, No. 6, but time doesn't go to it. But I would like to point out three essential measures that SV and I want you to look at. One is that in West Finland, particular attention is paid to a strong reduction in the reindeer number. The Council of States really didn't say anything about that. The second is the previous loss aid based on the calculated risk of predators, instead of replacing them when they are actually lost. It will stimulate better animal care. [[The President clubs.]] The third is a ban on land-use driving for both utility and recreation purposes. - It wasn't so bad, President, thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e716	We're told that overrun of speaking time is accepted by the margins that now occurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e719	I hope that my response to the interpellant gave the impression that I see very seriously the situation we are in. I think it is important from Storting's pulpit to stress that if nothing happens, we are faced in many ways with an ecological, nutritional, animal protection and humanly very serious situation. What worries me is the fact that when I meet with the industry and discuss what is reality, and insist that if nothing happens now with the number of pure, one will risk a permanent destruction of the grazing basis for the future, then my perception of reality is completely different from the reality that the industry itself has. It's not a grazing problem, NRL insists, it's a predatory problem, it's a land use problem, and there's been some special natural conditions that have led to the grazing being 'locked'. But it's not a grazing problem — there's enough grazing resources. It is clear that this room and I can of course take responsibility, and we can use the law to provide us with the means to first determine a maximum number of pure per. district, and then go on to get a law that allows us to determine a maximum number of clean per. holding. I think that's the only way to make sure you get a decrease in the number of pures. But we know that the industry itself, represented by the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund and the Sametinget, disagrees. Then we are faced with a big question that actually makes me feel somewhat paralysed. It's okay enough that the Storting adopts that kind of law, but we will very quickly come up in a dilemma and face the question of whether we want to and whether we are able to take the necessary steps to comply with the law we then adopt, against the will of the Sameting and against the will of the industry. In the ultimate sense, I think most people will imagine what this could be about. It is a dilemma and a problem that, in my opinion, this is an extremely difficult matter, which I have therefore appreciated having the opportunity to discuss with the Stortinget here today. But it also gives a description that we really have to go much further than what we've been given through this interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e727	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e733	The size goes to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e742	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:26 [[1999 - 2000]] The Committee had ceased: The size calls on the Government to make appropriate proposals for measures that may limit gambling dependence and ensure a good treatment provision for gambling addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e760	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30.ana.ud967e769	There is no record.
