ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e27	The representative Bjørn Hernæs, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Norwegian delegation to the Council of Europe 2000 session, Part 1, in Strasbourg, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Tom Thoresen. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Aud Blattmann, Lars Rise, Jan Simonsen, Anita Apelthun Seele and Tom Thoresen from 26 January to 28 January. by the Central Party Group on sick leave of the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein from 26 January until further notice. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the county of Hordaland, Kurt-Arne Langeland, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Anita Apelthun Sæles leave from 26 January to 28 January, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West Agder County: Rolf Terje KlunglandFor Akershus: Tron Erik HovindFor Hordaland County: Kari SørheimFor Oslo: Ann Kathrine TornåsFor Rogaland County: Toril Haaland HorpestadFor the Eastfold County: Morten Olsen3. Ann Kathrine Tornås is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Lars Rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e109	Rolf Terje Klungland, Tron Erik Hovind, Kari Sørheim, Ann Kathrine Tornås, Toril Haaland Horpestad and Morten Olsen are present and will take a seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 21 January 2000: ‘In the State Council of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 21 January 2000 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined:The Council of State Peter Angelsen is granted, on application, by way of grace from the office of a member of the King's Council with effect from Friday 21 January 2000 at 2.30 p.m. 1400.Adm. You. Lars Peder Breck is appointed as a member of the King's Council and takes over the Management Board of the Ministry of Fisheries with effect from Friday 21 January 2000 at 2.30 p.m. 1400.Statsrådet Kåre Gjønens is appointed as Norway's representative in the Nordic Council of Ministers with the special task of coordinating Nordic cooperation issues.State Secretary Terje Lorentz Magnussen is granted, on application, by way of grace from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Fisheries, with effect from Friday 21 January 2000 at 2.30 p.m. 1400.’» The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e129	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e134	I allow myself to propose Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e139	Ursula Evje has been proposed as vice-president. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e144	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Jan Simonsen and myself, I would like to make suggestions to ask the Government to intensify the handling of human smuggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e149	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e170	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Magnhild Melting Authority Kleppa State Council Dagfinn Høybräten State Council Åslaug Marie Haga The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. We will then start with the first main question, which will be asked by the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e189	I would like to ask questions to the Minister of Culture. Three different cultural projects in Iran are under assessment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is an exchange project with female painters, choreographer Jo Stroemgren's possible participation in a festival and the presentation of June Dahr's performance "Ibsen's Women". This comes as an initiative after the Ministry of Foreign Affairs signalled in 1998 that Norwegian cultural workers were warmly welcome to apply for money to advance towards Iran. For the time being, nothing has been used from the U.D.'s money bag to promote Norwegian culture in Iran. But this seems to be happening now. Does the Council know how much money the U.D. intends to spend on such a project, and what does the Council of State generally think about promoting Norwegian culture in Iran? –
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e196	I have a duty to draw attention to the fact that we have a division of labour between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which requires the Ministry of Culture to be responsible for culture in Norway and the Nordic countries, and that cultural activities outside the Nordic region are attached to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That being said, it is true, as the representative Sandberg says, that it may seem that cultural action is now expected to be implemented in Iran. There's been a discussion about this before. My starting point is that I base the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' assessments on whether cultural activities in Iran should take place, and the assessments in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are that it is permissible in the light of developments which have, however, taken place in Iran. In principle, I would say that there are of course situations and there are countries where cultural activity and cultural exchange can be unfortunate, because it can be that cultural exchanges act as regime-supporters, and there are countries in the world where we do not want to contribute to regime support. But, as I said, in relation to the specific case of Iran, I base the assessments made in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e203	I thank you for your answer. I also see that the leader of the Norwegian Council of Artists believes that Norwegian artists who travel to Iran must express themselves critically to the fatwagen against Salman Rushdie and evaluate the ethical aspects by visiting a regime that has previously condemned an artist to death. We all know Norway's relationship with Iran, which the Minister of Culture was also involved in, especially after Khomeini issued the death sentence on Salman Rushdie. But in the interests of a conservative Muslim society, the Norwegian ideas to promote Norwegian culture must be edited in order to adapt to the conditions of Muslim society. Will Norwegian culture be promoted in these projects when they are edited in this way? Does the Council of State still believe that Norwegian taxpayers' money should be used to send artists to act in a society of this kind? Does the Council of State have any concerns about this? The point of view of the Progress Party is, of course, that this should not have happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e208	In the context of cultural exchanges, very different measures can be taken. In a situation where we talk about individual artists who want to go to a country like Iran and present their art and get inspiration from environments in the country that can provide such inspiration, I see it as less problematic than implementing major measures, which, as I said, can be regime-supporting. So I'm aware that there are some limits here, and they have to be assessed in each situation. But I want to distance myself from editing the attitudes and views that are to be promoted. Some of the strength will just be that the artists will be able to make it clear what their attitude is, also to questions that include the fat wagon.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e213	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e216	The question goes to the Minister of Health. Very many of the country's hospitals are now planning a difficult cut in the supply of patients, as the Stortinget predicted would be done with the government's budget. Therefore, a unanimous increase said that the government had to come to the Stortinget quickly with proposals to strengthen operations, and that this could not wait for the revised national budget for spring, i.e. May-June. The evidence that things are as bad as we predicted is, unfortunately, overwhelming. Yesterday’s Sunnmørspost for yesterday said: ‘The imbalance is similar to the operation of two hospitals.’ This is partly due to the underfinancing of patient treatment. Is not the Minister of Health concerned that the planned closure of departments, cancellations of planned treatments and operations and the cutting of basic offers to patients will significantly weaken our health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e223	The answer to the representative Kristoffersen's question is yes. That is why I am working quite in line with the total increase that was agreed on 14 December last year when we were discussing the 2000 budget. It takes place through close cooperation with the Local Governments' Central Association, with the regional hospitals and the hospital owners, and we draw up research environments and base accounting material that eventually originates from the county municipalities. This process is in very good hands, and I intend to promote a proposition for the Storting in good time before the revised national budget, as I promised in the budget debate. That document shall provide the necessary basis for maintaining the objective set out in the budget of continuing growth in patient treatment. Let me also say that with regard to the specific circumstances referred to by the representative, Kristoffersen, we have supervisory authorities who are to systematically monitor the development of hospitals and deter them if the development exceeds the limits of the rule of law. It also applies to the County of More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e231	I must allow myself to remind the Minister of Health that speed is fast, and when you cannot wait for the revised national budget, that means that this must be presented much earlier. It can't be that the department has such a poor overview of the expenditure side of the hospitals that you need so long to document what is actually needed for what the Stortinget said about 2 pst. growth in patient treatment. I have with great surprise recorded that Prime Minister Bondevik in a Christmas interview in a newspaper in More and Romesdal said the following: «I see the needs of hospitals, but the matter comes first in connection with the revised national budget for spring». This is strongly contrary to what the Stortinget has said, and I must again challenge the Minister of Health: When does the Government intend to follow up the unanimous decision of the Stortingen on rapid treatment – and long before the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e243	I intend to follow up what I said in Stortinget, and which was also strongly underlined by the Labour Party representatives in the debate. The representative eye said: ‘The Council of State has now announced that he will return to Stortinget with a statement, as the Stortinget has requested. A couple of parties have said that it must happen during March. I would like to stress that for the Workers' Party too, this is urgent». My answer to the supplementary question is that during March, as more people raised in the debate asked the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e253	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e256	First of all, I would say that on the same day that Asmund Kristoffersen referred to, the Sunnmørspost reads as follows: ‘May make it impossible’. It's the hospital director at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal that explains this. Here you have to choose what to do to try to balance a county budget. The women's clinic at the Central Hospital stands for closure if you cannot find other savings measures at this hospital. My question to the Minister of Health is as follows: Even if you come in March with this money to which the Minister of Health refers, it will then be enough for each hospital to maintain its operation at a safe level, or you will once again find yourself in a situation where there is not enough money for, among other things. to be able to operate the women’s clinic at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e270	I maintain what I have always said, that this review that we are now doing, and that the Storting has asked for – and that we are making the point and the point, as agreed in December – among other things. The aim is to clarify the basis for what was foreseen in the 2000 budget, namely continued growth in treatment activity of 2 pst. And a growth in treatment activity does not mean a reduction in treatment activity, as the representative Nesvik refers to. The county councils have to deal with the treatment of the State budget by the Storting and with the signals given there, and they have to make their plans according to it. That message also contains a clear obligation on the part of the Storting and the Government to carry out this review with the aim of achieving the intended growth of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e277	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e280	There has been a table-catcher situation with regard to hospitals and the supply of extra resources to them, and it is obvious that here it is necessary to take a power cap. That would also be agreed by the SV. However, there is a link with municipal health services and a large shortage of primary doctors in a number of Norwegian municipalities. It is also seen that there has been a decrease in supply, among others. in the case of hospital or emergency facilities at the hospital. And here it seems to be an obvious context. You can see it, for example. in the context of the influenza epidemic, that many people have had to be hospitalised in order to receive treatment there, where, in other circumstances, treatment could have been carried out in the municipalities, by the local doctor, and in hospital emergencies or in hospital settings. My question to the Minister of Health is: Although hospitals now need to be given a boost to remedy this crisis, does the Minister of Health see a link with the lack of resources in the municipalities, and that it will also be necessary to resolve crises in hospitals to achieve a long-term increase in primary health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e289	It is clear that there is a close link between having a good primary health service and the good functioning of hospitals. These include: important for the gate opening function itself that primary medical services have against hospitals. It is important to ensure that treatment is at the lowest effective level and that we do not have to resort to hospital treatment for the lack of adequate provision of primary health services when that is the right thing. It is also important in relation to prevention, and therefore we will make great efforts to ensure that the needs of primary medical care and the needs of primary health care are properly addressed through the reform we are now planning in medical care, through human resources and through the notification of the entire emergency chain that we are planning to provide to the Stortinge in our area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e294	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e297	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Yesterday, there was again a look at the evening post on the serious and unsustainable situation of sick and prematurely born children, especially in the eastern part of the country. A mother was transported by helicopter from the Rikshospitalet to Haukeland Hospital, where she was redeemed at Caesar's intersection. After two days, Mother and children were sent back to Ullevål, but due to lack of space they were transported on to Lillehammer Hospital. So she had to go to four hospitals and travel 1,300 km before she received an offer. Last Wednesday I also raised this question with the Minister of Health. My question is what came out of the meeting to which the Minister of Health referred. And when can the Minister of Health guarantee that pregnant women with complications will no longer be throwing ball between hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e306	The situation described by the representative, Sjøli, is not worthy of our health care. That's why I've also grabbed it from the central team. There was a meeting yesterday between all interested parties: the two health regions affected, the regional hospitals and the county authorities. At this meeting, it was agreed to put in place what can be done in the short term in order to intensify ongoing cooperation in order to exploit available capacities in health regions across county borders, and to further prioritise the recruitment of nursing staff — which is part of the problem both in Norway and abroad — towards the hospitals in question. Secondly, it was agreed to set up two very fast-working groups, which will have identified by 10 February the first need for intensive treatment of newborns in the two health regions and, secondly, the need to build up the skills of nurses in the new-born sections. We have also suggested that, soon after these working groups have completed their work, which is to be done in 14 days, a new meeting should be held in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to decide on the proposals put forward by these working groups. We have come into such a situation because the medicine goes ahead with storming and makes it possible to help so many more. The capacity and competence needs have not been met to the same degree, and we need to attack along several lines, as I have now outlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e316	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. It is good to hear that he has now grasped the situation, and it is time. Because it has been a long time since the trade unions called an alarm and said this will have disastrous consequences if nothing is done. I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Health for putting health care values on the agenda, but it has to be more than words, and I hope it will be. I think this example that I have now mentioned, and in addition to the shocking example of little Mathias in two years who died alone because the parents were not allowed to be present when he died, shows that the values do not hold true. In the light of these two examples, I would like to ask the Minister of Health what he will do in order to ensure ethical and professional treatment on the part of health professionals in our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e323	There is a high professional and ethical standard among Norwegian health professionals, but we get examples showing that it is necessary to raise these values, and I fully share the commitment of the representative, Sjøli, and that is why I have presented a communication on health care values – just to raise this debate and contribute both to health care and to awareness raising around this. But it must be more than words, and what I outlined in relation to the specific matter is actions for concrete action. We will also assess the need for additional resources from the Ministry, for example: against measures of competence, if necessary, in the specific case raised by the representative Sjøli. Let me conclude by saying that in the case of the Rikshospitalet case – without my going into it in concrete terms – the Rikshospitalet's management and department as it was, really took hold of this, went through their routines, considered how to adapt the physical framework conditions, which are quite firm, so that the type of events should not repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e332	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e335	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Social Affairs. The size has raised concerns on several occasions about the increase in the number and follow-up of sick persons. When processing the notification, the responsibility of the social security institution for the early follow-up of the sick person was strengthened. In 1993, 100 posts were allocated to this work. In a study from the National Audit Office, it appears that in many cases these posts have not been used as intended and that there has been a limited increase in the use of classified sick pay and occupational rehabilitation. Does the Council of State believe that the follow-up of the social security system has been in line with the decisions and intentions of the Storting, and what does the Council of State think can and must be done in order to follow up the sick in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e344	I share the representative Gravdahl's concern about a high level of sick leave. It is difficult for the individual workers to cope with illness and work, it is difficult for the individual company, and it is also a heavy cost of a government budget that would normally involve as many good measures as possible. The social security system is part of the follow-up of the individual health care practitioner, and it is a responsibility that the social security system shares with many others, both the responsibilities of the individual health care practitioner, the responsibilities of the employer and the labour market seat, the medical profession, etc. The dry matter was added to 100 settings. The National Audit Office has pointed out, in the light of a study commissioned by the Ministry, that they have used approx. 1/3 of these positions in direct follow-up and select 90 pst. along the so-called health axis. A matter of this is now under consideration in the Storting Control Committee. Then ask the representative Gravdahl what else can be done to follow up an infirmary. Tomorrow, the Idea Bank, which is an initiative by the Minister for Social Affairs, opens up cooperation with the social partners, and there is an instance in which it should be possible to report all the good attempts at the individual workplace that have contributed to reducing sick leave. It's also an instance where it's possible to get the good examples to help reduce sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e353	I thank you for the answer and would like to grasp what the Social Minister says about other examples that can be used. In Oppland, three companies, together with LO, NHO, the Labour Inspectorate and the County Street Agency, have launched a project, called a contract of employment, which aims to prevent exclusion from working life by early catching workers at risk of getting sick. How does the Council of State view such projects, and will it support the implementation of such projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e360	For me, this is the example of being one of a lot of good examples that it's just important to get into the idea bank and out to the other companies. It is my experience that there is a great deal of work to be done at the individual workplace in this field, and it is also where the effort must be put in the first place. I myself have had a strong commitment in this field, both in creating the idea bank and in relation to a public selection, led by Matz Sandman, who is going to present his position on 1 June, and who is going to look at both disability and sick leave. An important part of their work is also looking at what can be done for a better working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e367	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e370	I'm going to ask the Minister of Culture a question. When a 16-year-old on a small use in Westfold is able to crack the codes used by the big international industry to protect their DVD records, I think most people will think it's the big international industry that has a problem. Because I'm left with a very uncomfortable feeling that Ecocrim must have too little to do when they deal with such a matter. Of course, I'm not going to ask either the Minister of Culture or the Government to try out ecocrim. But I would like to ask the Minister of Culture to explain to the Storting whether she will take the initiative to review the law on the Internet and the modern entertainment industry, to see if the law that guarantees freedom of expression and democracy is strong enough, and to see whether the practice of the law takes sufficient account of this. So far, there are, among other things, The Internet had a very democratic character, but the pressure to put this within strong commercial and power structures is great, and that must be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e379	The representative of Solheim points out an important matter. As the representative understands, I cannot comment on the matter in question because it is under police investigation. But in general, this is a question that we're concerned about. And not just us, you are also in the EU system. There are processes in progress in the EU to develop a directive on how to deal with copyright in the information society. It's a very complicated thing. What I want to say is that our starting point for this work, which we attach considerable importance to – and I think it's right to say that Norway is absolutely in the forefront of copyright – and our concern as a department is to balance the consideration between the rightholders on the one hand and the users on the other. Finding the right balance here in an information society is very complicated, but there are issues that you are dealing with internationally and that we are following very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e386	Everyone recognizes that it must be a copyright and that there is one central issue. But there are at least three other issues that are equally important: it is the democratic issue: making technology available to the maximum possible and applicable to the maximum possible; it is of course the consumer's interest to prevent untimely monopolies in the new forms of information technology; and it is also a poverty and third-world perspective; namely to ensure that countries outside the scope of the large industry have access to such technologies. All of these three must at least be weighed against copyright, yes, they must weigh very, very heavily in such an assessment. I would like to ask the Minister of Culture to do the right thing for when she might come back to the Storting with a proper assessment and review of this, because this is, of course, a fundamental question for the next few decades, not least as accommodated by the gigantic mergers that we now see in the American entertainment industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e396	On the issue of democracy, publicity and accessibility, it is just one of the areas of conflict in the EU directive that is currently under preparation and where we are in dialogue with the EU on the issues linked to the fact that we believe there are elements here that will prevent public disclosure, that is to say that the directive is too far in the direction of protecting rightholders at the expense of the public. Our task is to find the balance, but there's a big discussion about it. I believe it would be natural for me to come back to Stortingen with this matter when it has come further into the EU system. The matter is now before the Council. It is a little unclear how long it will take to get it processed there, but I think it is natural that I come back and inform about this matter in connection with the finalisation of the EU directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e403	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e406	I have a question for the Minister of Health. In the last few days, it has been reported that as many as 30 pst. by people with mental retardation may be mismedication. It is claimed that many people are given sedatives when there are actually other things that fail them, such as: upset stomach and constipation. If this is true, it is very serious. Can the Minister for Health confirm that this is the case, or will investigations be initiated to clarify whether such information results in correctness?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e413	The evaluations now being carried out as part of the evaluation of the reform for people with mental retardation are important because they will provide systematic knowledge of how the reform has turned out both in terms of housing and care and in terms of treatment. For my part, I take seriously the signals that have arrived, and that indicate that we are not good enough to give some of the weakest of the offers that they are entitled to. I see this in clear context with the development of psychiatry, which the Stortinget is well known to has been a neglected area, but in which both government and big business have gripped heavily. We are in the process of stepping up these services for eight years. I want to use the knowledge that comes with the evaluation of the PU reform, in the mechanism of action on mental health protection. In addition, this will also be followed up by the Minister of Social Affairs in the evaluation of social legislation, which is relevant in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e418	I thank you for your answer. I think it is positive that the Council of State takes such information seriously and finds out if it really is. In the wake of the answer given by the Council of State, I would like to ask whether there may also be reason to look at the conditions of other weak groups in the case of such mistreatment. I'm thinking, for example. in the elderly with major disease problems and other groups. Could it be right at the same time to see if this is also the case for those groups? And will the Minister of Health take an initiative to look at that too?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e423	The question really has two sides. One concerns care, care and treatment services for vulnerable groups in general, especially the elderly. There I would like to point out that in a short time the government will promote a roll-out of care in 2000 that will just discuss this side of the case. The second part of the question to the representative of Arnesen is about mismedication, about the proper use of medicines. There is a general question, not only of these special groups, with which health authorities both have an alert eye and prepare measures to follow up. Among other things, we are now preparing the establishment of a national prescription database to strengthen the possibility of monitoring the prescription of drugs and hence the follow-up to mismedication.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e430	Olav Gunnar Ballo for supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e433	There's every reason to take it seriously if there's as much mistreatment as this is about, and anyway, you should get control of it. However, another form of treatment related to the group of mentally retarded people is behavioural therapeutic interventions, which may also be intended to replace medication with a corrective action to change behaviour. Unfortunately, some of the behavioural therapeutic measures — perhaps not so few of them — can bear the mark of abuse. At least it may be difficult for health professionals other than those with knowledge of behavioural therapies to distinguish between physical abuse and what might be useful approaches. When the Minister of Health acknowledges that the medical side will also be looked at, is there concern on the part of the Department about the consequences of behavioural therapeutic measures and, where appropriate, about regulating in the form of laws the possibilities for using such measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e440	We have recently had a debate on different behavioural therapeutic methods. There has even been a debate that has also reflected in the positions of the Social Committee. On this basis, we have had a working group appointed by the State Health Inspectorate in close cooperation with the Ministry to assess these methods. The report of this working group has just been received by the Ministry. We have not taken a stand on it, but what I can say is that we will undergo a wide range of treatment. It will be sent for consultation in the environment concerned, on which basis we will consider the question raised by the representative, Mr Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e445	Then we go on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e448	I have a question for the Health Council. Akershus has a very large undercapacity on hospitals. This is well known. The situation is still precarious, even when the county buys all the places it is possible to get hold of elsewhere. With a rapidly growing population — especially over 60 years of age — there is a need to build a local hospital in Follo. Follo together with North Eastfold has approx. 130 000 inhabitants. At the same time, a well-functioning central hospital must provide good treatment and provide training for medical students and others. The Council of State agrees that a Follo hospital must be provided with an operationally appropriate size, while giving SiA the opportunity to provide a varied and good range of services, including: to the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e456	I'm asking for an understanding that I can't take a decision on hospital expansions in the billion-dollar class in Stortinget's spontaneous question hour. But what I can say is that there is a good process to clarify the questions asked by the representative Evje here, between Akershu County Municipality, Østfold County Municipality and the Health Region. It is true that when two county municipalities plan hospitals in close proximity to each other, we have mechanisms to ensure good coordination of these plans so that they are linked. Therefore, it has been a prerequisite on the part of the Ministry that Østfold and Akershus coordinate their plans precisely in order to provide a solid operational basis for the hospital facilities that are finally agreed to be adopted. But this gives both me and Stortinget plenty of opportunity to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e463	I have a follow-up question. That's right, as the Council of State says – that's why I brought northern parts of Eastfold to my question. While one must have a well-functioning central hospital that must provide a good treatment, it is known that the undercapacity of the health services in Akershus and the purchases we make today are significant. So Akershus is the county that gets the lowest transfers from the state. This situation becomes extremely difficult because the central hospital buildings, which were taken over by the state, are confused – this is because the country as a builder chose to have salt in the concrete. Does the Council of State Akershus see the special need of the county council for exceptional assistance from the state in order to realise the necessary expansions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e472	I am well aware of the position of Akershu County, both in general economic and health care, and therefore have a strong understanding that the county council needs to expand its hospital capacity. But I'm still going to ask for understanding that I can't deal here with matters of such a dimension as this is about. I will do that when the matter comes to my table. What I have contributed to so far is a clean process in which the whole of the health supply in the East is assessed in the context of these developments. And that's what happens now. Secondly, I have strongly contributed to the fact that Akershus County Municipality and the Central Hospital in Akershus have been given an arrangement for the reestablishment of their participation in getting the country more doctors. I think that is very important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e479	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e482	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Despite a significant increase in activity, most hospitals are under-balanced — even if we have a new funding scheme. This results in hospitals looking at cutting and closing the departments as part of cost cuts. Does the Minister of Health see the potential for discrimination and, in particular, the danger of it going against the elderly? What immediate plans does the Minister of Health have to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e491	Let me first point out – because it is often forgotten in this debate – that the introduction of input-driven funding has actually brought hospitals DKK 1.8 billion more during the time this scheme has worked. It has also contributed to a completely different incentive structure in the healthcare system, namely that what was previously profitable, to have long waiting lists, it has now become rather fluent, while keeping order and actually treating as many patients as possible, it is now profitable. That being said, I will refer to what I answered the question from the representative of Kristoffersen. I am in the process of a full review of the hospital economy with a view to fulfilling the condition of the state budget for continued growth in the activity and offer, and I come to Stortinget with a case on that in March. That's also the answer to the representative Johnsen's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e498	I have a follow-up question. The last example is from East Agder Central Hospital, where 20 million are now to be saved. kr, and where they plan to close the geriatric ward. In the heels of this, we get walking patients, for whom the hospitals again are fined. Who does the Minister for Health really think should have the fines? And does he see the hopeless in the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e507	I cannot go into the specific budgetary procedure in each county municipality, but I expect the county councils to relate to the Storting's treatment of the state budget and the signals given in that context. So among those signals is that we will have a full review of the hospital economy in ours, in good time before the revised national budget. With regard to the situation of older people in particular, it is also related to the development of care services, where the Minister of Social Affairs may be able to supplement me if desired.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e514	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e517	I'll have the Minister of Culture ask you a question. We have two public broadcasters in Norway, NRK and TV2, and both have undertaken to have a varied programme menu, with programmes for both broad and narrow audiences. There shall be daily news items, and 50 pst. of the programmes of the channels shall be Norwegian produced. And here the difficulties of hearing-impaired – TV 2 texts start because none of their Norwegian-produced programmes for hearing-impaired people. We have 600 000 people with hearing impairment in the Norwegian population, and that means that they actually only have the opportunity to understand what is happening in programmes with foreign drugs. My question to the Minister of Culture is: What will she do to help the hearing impaired to participate in the Norwegian-produced TV 2 programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e526	The question asked by the representative, Fossum, is that we are involved in my department. As far as the NRK is concerned, we are in a dialogue with the NRK, technological environments and hearing-impaired organisations to see how we can get on with this quickly. In the case of TV 2, on which the question went directly, I have not had direct contact with TV 2 on this matter, but we will have a close dialogue with TV 2 in connection with the possibilities for a new concession, where we will address a number of questions. I also want to bring this problem into the discussion that we're going to have with TV 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e532	I thank the Minister of Culture for the answer, and I am pleased that this will be part of the concession terms for TV 2. Both technology and the NRK have come a long way in this area. The NRK spends 10 million. kr of the year on the subtitles of Norwegian-produced programmes. In my opinion, the hearing-impaired people have a right to have the programs text, so that they understand what is going on. I expect the Minister of Culture to follow up when the discussion of the TV2 concession conditions starts not long – this as part of the public broadcasting problem. My question will then be: Is it clear now that subtitling Norwegian-produced programmes will be part of the concession conditions for our public broadcasters?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e541	As I said in my first answer, this is a problem that we are concerned about. Of course, when we have a public broadcaster, we have to be concerned that as many people as possible can perceive and understand what's going on in the public broadcaster. So in general, as I said, we're very concerned about this. I want to take with me the question of the concession debate with TV 2. I can't promise anything else here and now but to be very clear that this is a problem that we're concerned about, and that we'll take into account in the conversations also with TV 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e548	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e551	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Health a question. The Minister of Health has stated several times that there is a particular concern about prevention in the healthcare sector, and that is a very important area. When one sees this in relation to the fact that now at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal, the heart teams have dropped because nurses and other personnel have been transferred to the medical department as a result of the budgetary situation and an overcoating in the medical department, my question becomes to the Minister of Health: How does he view this development, that these heart teams can now actually be shut down, while there are these teams that are responsible for training and training heart patients, which in turn can lead to a lower hospitalization rate for patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e558	It's hard for me to go in and try a hospital administrator's disposal of their nurses in relation to where they are most needed, in a situation where you have a significant overcoat in the medical department and need to get away there. I have also noticed the message about this change in the media, and I have noticed it to the extent that I have asked the county doctor to look at this re-disposal in relation to the health requirement in the hospital law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e564	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is reassuring that the Council of State has grasped this, for it is a development that at least I am very sceptical of. This is an offer that works very well for heart patients, and we know that heart patients are very much exposed to frequent hospitalisations in Norwegian hospitals as a result of their illness. The problem is that, unfortunately, this is also due to the hospital economy, which means that you cannot afford to hire enough nurses. I pointed out earlier today to the Women's Clinic in Ålesund, where some people have now actually started to apply for other jobs as a result of being insecure in their workplace. My question to the Minister of Health is as follows: is it going to be able to follow the March issue, or will the Council of State only come back with the money in the context of the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e571	I think it is appropriate both for the Storting and for me that the process that we have now initiated, and which we agree on how to run, and which we are running completely as the Stortinget has asked, comes to a conclusion before forcing the Minister of Health's preliminary assessments of this. What I can say, however, is that we are going to put forward a proposal with proposals for measures that we believe are necessary in order to meet the intentions of the budget line that was submitted to the Stortingen this autumn. I can't help noticing that when this case was dealt with at Stortinget on 14 December last, the party of progress was actually among the parties who said that it was not so urgent to make the proposals, that it was more important to do a thorough job, and that they would like to get into the revised national budget. Now that you give other signals, I take note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e580	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e583	I'm going to ask the Minister of Health a question. Before Christmas, the Socialist Left took up a proposal, supported by the Right and the Advance Party, asking the Government to come back with a concrete package of measures for the recruitment of nurses and caregivers in the context of the revised national budget for 2000. Unfortunately, the proposal was not supported either by the Government or by the Workers' Party, so that there was a minority. What we see, however, is that there is such a significant shortage of staff – not least nurses, but also, to some extent, help nurses – that you, for example, have. in the context of the influenza epidemic, personnel from the Defence Department had to be brought in to deal with the situation in hospitals. It makes it obvious that some form of recruitment measures linked to hospitals are absolutely necessary in the case of health professionals. – I would like to ask the Minister of Health how you think you can improve recruitment, especially by nurses, but also help nurses, to Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e594	When that proposal was not adopted, it was because the majority in Stortinget considered it to blow open doors. It was in the draft State budget and now in the adopted budget there is a plan of action of more than 400 million. kr to be used for the recruitment, follow-up and further training of health professionals. With regard to the nurses, which is our biggest problem at the moment, there is a problem with both non-response and recruitment. On the one hand, the measures are to increase access. In addition to the recruitment measures they have had outside their borders, the Directorate of Labour will now extend these measures to recruitment in Germany, where we have good experience of recruiting doctors and where we have a very good interaction with the national authorities. In addition, we will undertake reactivation courses for those who want to return to the hospital, or to the nursing profession. In addition, employers have a clear responsibility in making themselves attractive as employers and as jobs for the groups that are involved. Last but not least, employers have a clear responsibility to assess how to use the staff. There is waste of resources to use nurses, who are scarce, to call around for guards, as an average department nurse spends more than half her time. A systematic review of how to use personnel is absolutely necessary in a situation of considerable scarcity. I am also critical of the great transition from the use of help nurses to nurses that some of the hospitals have provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e607	What you record when you look at the posts around the hospitals is that there are a significant number of job vacancies, where perhaps as many as up to half go into less than half the job position. This means that there is a significant potential for increasing job breaks, even to prevent unnecessary overtime. Maybe it could have recruited a better way, because many are looking for more full jobs. Does the Minister of Health see that there can be an opportunity to avoid very low job breaks around hospitals, thus improving recruitment and getting more nurses and also help nurses to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e615	Yes. The answer is absolutely unconditionally yes to that question. To the extent that the employees themselves wish to increase their employment shares and their full employment, it is clear that the employer has a lot to do to facilitate this. I have seen job advertisements with announcements in fractions much less than the one that Bello now refers to, which I think seems relatively meaningless. It is the policy of national authorities – and I have clearly understood that it is also the social policy of the parties – that a person should seek to obtain more jobs and thus make such jobs more accessible to those who want to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e622	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e625	The long-term measures outlined by the Council of State are good, but the situation is now acute. The Council of State refers to the emergence of some attractive employers here to recruit and retain employees. Yes, it's the county council! It's the county councils that are now cutting budgets and cutting down departments. And how in the world is it going to be possible in such a situation that you don't get quite clear signals from collapse and government that the budgets can stay up to a level so that we don't put down departments? In such a situation, it is completely impossible to recruit and retain employees and to be an attractive employer who can represent the future's job as a skilled worker. Does not the Council of State not see the need to give clear signals now that the county councils are at least not going to lay down departments and cancel people, in such an acute situation as one is actually in many counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e634	I believe that I have just given clear and unambiguous signals about what we can do from the national level, which is to facilitate the framework conditions so that the objective of increasing hospital activity is followed up. But I can't go in and take over a county budget authority. It's messing with liability. With regard to the nursing situation, I believe that I did not refer to just long-term measures. We'll get on the market year after year the fruits of almost doubling the capacity of nursing through the 1990s. The recruitment measures that the labour market bill now strengthens in relation to the rest of the world will also produce results relatively quickly. However, we cannot exempt the local employer from the responsibility of recruiting and retaining his own employees. The responsibility they have to take, given the framework conditions they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e641	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e646	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him. At the request of the Minister for Transport, the question will be moved and answered before question 16, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 14, from the representative of Grethe G. Fossum to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for the Protection of the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, the question will be moved and answered before question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 15, from the representative Rolf Rikvam to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 17, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who directs him. Question 20, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e666	I would like to ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘There are no special requirements for the design and size of stairs and doors in nursing homes. For example, ambulance staff, this may be a major problem. What can the Council of State do to make these dwellings more flexible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e675	The nursing home is a dwelling to be adapted to the orientation and mobility of persons with reduced mobility. All nursing homes shall have a standard that allows both participation in everyday activities with different types of disability and to receive care and care if necessary. The instructions in the Husbanken Code are based on the life-cycle standard. It aims to ensure good accessibility both inside and outside the dwelling so that the dwelling can be used at all stages of life, including reduced mobility and wheelchair use. For care homes, a dimensional basis with greater space needs than the life-cycle standard is used. The dimensional basis includes, inter alia: space for helpers, better space for wheelchair manoeuvring and the use of technical aids. The House Bank has issued an adviser for the design of nursing homes and nursing homes. In the supervisor, recommendations have been made for the size and size of the dwellings, including those particularly requiring assistance and care, and for example: bedside, can live in the dwellings. In the case of doors, it is required that interior doors have a minimum free opening of 80 cm and exterior doors of 90 cm minimum. These door widths are not adapted to the width of hospital beds and, as pointed out by the representative Bredvold, may make it difficult for any sick transport. The House Bank therefore recommends that municipalities use wider doors, and recommends a passenger width of at least 115 cm in this respect, so that there can be room for larger wheelchairs and for the transport of beds. More than one-storey nursing homes require a lift. Nursing homes are not a regulated residence form. Instructions in the legislation that go beyond the minimum standard are recommendations that municipalities are encouraged to follow. If the House Bank were to require full flexibility in the construction of nursing homes, the costs would be very high. Therefore, municipalities themselves must take into account, and be aware, the design of dwellings so that they can be flexible in relation to more needs, for example: in the case of sick transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e689	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which provided some information – how it is felt that nursing homes should be, that there are certain requirements for them, and that there is also a guide to how these buildings should be. However, even though it is a supervisor and it is built after a supervisor, there are certain professional groups, among other things. those who carry people who get sick, e.g. There are serious problems in getting this job done in a sensible way. When it comes to costs, there doesn't have to be any major increase in these about creating a staircase in another way or inserting a slightly wider door. Will the Council of State take a closer look at this, so that it can become a little more liberal in several ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e699	First, the government stresses the need to have as simple a regulatory framework as possible, and second, to have as much freedom as possible, including for municipalities, to choose local adaptations. I thought that was in line with what a very large majority on the Stortinget wanted, and in particular the party represented by the representative Bredvold – that we should not use too much detail regulation in relation to the design of these. The fact that we don't want to impose is the background that the government has chosen to use a supervisor where we go into these issues that have been addressed here: width of doors, width of times, etc. I actually think that's enough, and it's very much taken into account in the design of homes. Without using my background too much, between 15 and 20 years of experience as an ambulance driver, I can trust the representative of Bredvold that, as an ambulance driver, you face far greater challenges in different contexts than in care homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e706	Question 2 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e712	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘I expect the draft consultation on changes to the Law on Indebtedness to be available soon. The legal experience, so far, has been that public creditors have often been the most difficult party to achieve a debt arrangement. Will the Council of State propose changes to the assets of public creditors so that victims of debt can achieve effective debt negotiations also with public creditors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e721	The Debt Regulations have been in force for seven years. There are now open debt negotiations in nearly 15 000 cases, and more than 11,000 people are implementing the debt regime. In the last two years, a certain decrease in the number of households that wants to benefit from the scheme has been recorded. The Ministry has worked for some time to review all the laws, and a draft hearing memo with proposals for changes of promises will be sent out next week. One of the areas where the department has drawn up is the ability of public creditors to accept proposals for indebtedness schemes according to the law. There are two aspects to this issue that the Ministry has looked at more closely. One is about public creditors having sufficient authority to accept a proposal for voluntary debt regime. The second is on the rules of the Debt Code go far enough when it applies to the right of the court to lower claims against the public creditors' will when a compulsory debt regime is to be confirmed. When it comes to the voluntary debt regimes, I see that there may be a need for a general code that allows public creditors to accept such proposals when debt negotiations are opened. Such a home may mean that one does not have to impose a compulsory scheme simply because the public is represented in the matter. With regard to the mandatory arrangements, I see that it may be undesirable to soften the rules that give individual public creditors the right to have their claims fully covered. It shall apply, inter alia: older claims. In the listening note, among others: These questions are discussed in detail, and after the hearing authorities have made their views known, a proposal for new rules will be presented in a proposal for changes to the Debt Regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e734	I am pleased that the Council of State replied that this hearing draft will now be sent out, because this is a matter in which the Left has committed itself. Getting an embellishment to make public creditors more like private is also an important signal to the private to get real debt negotiations. It's okay that the number has gone down, but there are a lot of people who wear off unbelievably heavy today when it comes to the debt they have, and when it's up to opening negotiations for a fairer distribution. I could have gone into many different points in the Left's view of the law as debt, where one should have gone in and improved, among other things. in the five-year period thereafter, what is called the period of the hedge. But I also want to focus a little bit on children, on flexibility when it comes to the cost of living for children, because there are a lot of kids in Norway today who have it incredibly heavy, because they have parents who are in a debt arrangement, and the children in a way get less than others. What about children's rights? What about contributions? Are there also things that are being evaluated in the listening round?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e743	One of the reasons why this work has taken a long time is that many problem settings are difficult. The representative We had among them some of them, the five-year period and expenses of living for children. There are also several that will be shed light in the listening note that we send out next week. All the hearing aids will be there and give us an idea of how the final draft of the laws should be when we next send it over to the Storting. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: I would like to stress that the practice is quite different from part of the country to part of the country. There's a big difference in the price of a set of children's expenses. Several of these things we're going to go into more concrete terms. I can't say any more now, because we haven't published the draft yet, but I am absolutely sure that what will result from this change in the law is that the debt regime will be even better for those who will be forced to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e753	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The ABB has a concession relating to the supply of equipment for the production and distribution of electricity. Despite, among other things, the efficiency potential of the Norwegian system, the lack of orders now leads to the cancellation and dramatic reduction of Norwegian power on the generator and transformer sides. What will the Council of State do to ensure the necessary framework conditions in order to maintain the concession’s prerequisites for production, maintenance and product development?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e762	The production of power equipment has traditionally been an important part of the Norwegian workshop industry. The Norwegian market has been marked by a sharp decline in the 1990s as a result of the reduction in new development projects. The companies have to some extent been able to compensate for this by increasing exports. Nevertheless, it now appears that the industry is adding up to a clearly lower level of activity. ABB Alstom Power AS undertook in December 1999 a contingency condition, which was to maintain sufficient capacity and competence to perform domestic activities related to power generation equipment, equivalent to the competence of ABB Kraft AS prior to the take-over of the generation activity. In the event of difficulties in complying with the condition, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade shall be informed as soon as possible and, where appropriate, accept deviations from the condition. The condition continues a contingency condition from 1988 set in connection with the acquisition by ABB of shares in Elektro Bureau AS, except that production requirements have not been continued. The reason for this was that the emergency situation would not be made unrealistic, on the basis of information on market failures. The Minister of Industry and Trade has initially no specific means of improving the development of the power equipment market. However, the renewal and modernisation of today’s often old power generation equipment will be of major socio-economic interest. In the repair, servicing and upgrading of equipment, ABB and ABB Alstom Power will have their most significant development potential. The maintenance and renewal of equipment is the main responsibility of the power industry. On the part of the authorities, the NVE is now working on draft delivery quality regulations together with the planned introduction of quality-adjusted income frameworks in the case of non-delivery of energy from 1 January 2001. In this way it shall not be profitable to postpone the necessary maintenance in power stations, transformer stations and distribution facilities. The power industry needs to understand more fully that maintenance and renewal in existing plants must be carried out in order to ensure sufficient quality of power supplies to customers. For reasons of urgency, it is important that the Norwegian supplier of such services also be given sufficient mandates to maintain their activities and competences in Norway. TBL and ABB have contacted the Government about the possibilities for cooperation on a centre of expertise in ABB so that their competence is maintained despite the failure of market developments. The Government will continue to work on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e779	It is positive to record the Council of State's understanding of the question I am travelling. But we're facing a situation that's acute. The production environment that has so far been the backbone of further development of electricity systems is in the process of being reduced to almost nothing. I have to ask the Council of State again, relating to something more precise. I can accept that the Council of State alone does not have any tools, but the government as a college has instruments. The Council of State refers to ABB and their ability to develop a centre of expertise. Is the Council of State in favour of this? And further, can the Council of State consider making an enquiry into the industry in relation to their responsibility to deliver orders on equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e786	Let me say that I share the questioner's view that there is an acute situation for this important production environment, and that is a dramatic development we have seen. It would also be an emergency situation for Norway if we were to see that this environment disappeared completely for us. That is why, under the conditions laid down by the Acquisition Act, as late as the letter of 20 December 1999, last year, we have said clearly about the new owner: ‘ABB Alstom Power AS shall maintain, for emergency reasons, sufficient capacity and competence to perform domestic activities related to the delivery, conversion, upgrade, servicing and repair of power generation equipment equivalent to the capacity and competence of ABB Kraft, division Generation, prior to the transfer from ABB Kraft AS.’; If they are not able to maintain it, they are obliged to notify us quickly. That's what the concession terms are. We will follow this up, because it is quite crucial for the winter country and the countries of Norway that we have security of supply, and that our equipment does not fall due.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e796	So to what is an instrument concrete in relation to the acute situation that is present, and of course there is a loss of investment tax. Now the Minister of Finance is sitting here too. There is another minister who gets the question, but I assume that the Minister of Industry here will be on-going, and that there is a dialogue related to finally getting the exemption from the investment tax in place. We took a decision on the revised national budget last June. It was not followed up by the Government in a satisfactory way. We took a new decision on the budget this autumn. Per. There are currently no rules for exemption from investment taxes, which are a crucial step in getting those who own the production equipment out of some place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e801	The President will point out at the end that speech should be concrete and adapted to this House.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e804	I'm sorry, President. It was a little emotional.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e809	I understand the commitment to Dalheim. We have experienced a restructuring in the power industry in recent years that has led the industry to focus on things other than what has been the professional pride in the industry for many years, namely always being in the forefront of updating equipment that is old-fashioned, and where the ingenuity of the old e-workers has meant that they should always be in the forefront of problems. This competitive situation we have had, and this focus on short-term purchases and results, cannot be maintained by this industry for so long as it goes beyond the necessary modernisation of the equipment. This is what the Government will focus on. That's why we agree to and work with this centre of expertise in the Drammen that we think is necessary to keep the environment. I can promise that this is a topic on the board of the Government – in dialogue with the undersigned, the Minister of Finance and not least the Minister of Oil and Energy, who has the direct tasks in some of these areas. I must stress that there are now many issues for treatment. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has told me that they now have the maximum speed to deal with this, which means that there will be cases for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e819	I have a question for our Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘According to the figures provided by the Norwegian Business Federation from the Task Register in Brønnøysund, the business form base has grown from 628 different forms in 1998 to 649 in 1999. Despite the high profile and commitment of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, including a programme for ‘Simplifying Norway’, small businesses do not believe this to be so. Will the Council of State bet stronger and wider in the fight against the Form Field?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e828	The Task Register has been a useful tool for finding coordination opportunities across the levels. The increase of 21 forms last year, to which the representative Hedstrøm refers, is formally correct, but definitely does not give a comprehensive picture of the situation. Firstly, nine of the 21 have existed for a long time, but only now have they been registered in the register. Further seven are real simplifications that negatively impact statistics, by dividing comprehensive general forms into several forms with a defined target recipient group. The real increase last year was therefore five forms. Ten new ones arrived, and five old ones fell away. Of course, it's not good enough, but it's at least as important that the ten new forms together are less burdensome than the five old ones. The change in business time use is positive for the first time, and we have thus reversed a long-standing trend in Norwegian central government. The really big gains are hardly achieved simply by removing forms. Our work on the form field is therefore far beyond the task register. For 2000, it's set at 82 million. kr in order to obtain a coordinated electronic reporting of Equation Data to the tax authorities, the Brønnøysund Registers and the Statistical Central Bureau. The project is a crucial milestone in simplification, because these three stages stand for more than 70 pst. of total business form loads. Clearing the legislation is another major and important work. We are in the process of getting a prescription that will give us an overview of our comprehensive regulatory work for the first time. The screening phase has just been completed, and the effort will now shift the focus to the coordination and simplification of the content. We can already flash beyond 300 regulations that can – and should – easily be removed as out-of-date or obsolete, as well as a number of areas where revision is needed. A pilot project using test panels for legislative changes will also be launched this year. The aim is to allow users to pre-test new rules to better identify the effects they will have. Unlucky legislative responses can then be stopped before the final adoption of the proposal. The size has on several occasions since the last harvest been thoroughly informed about what we are doing in this area. The summary presented by the Prime Minister yesterday at the first half-yearly report on ‘Simplifying Norway’ is also appropriate to the fight against the form field: overall, progress is satisfactory. At the same time, we know that the work of achieving results as monks has only begun. But even if things take time – and perhaps this work in particular – there is no doubt that we will achieve results for the benefit of small businesses with such a continuous system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e850	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It may feel like massaging when the opposition goes over and over again to point out the major problems facing small and medium-sized enterprises in this area. That there was a status review yesterday is correct. I also got an article in our country, where system manager Henning Ve of the foundation Law Data says that the scope of the law has at least not diminished, and points out that during the six-month period ‘A simpler Norway’ has been in operation, 66 laws and more than 800 regulations have been passed. It's very good -- the whole opposition agrees -- that you go in and simplify and reduce in one area. But if you get new laws and regulations, and the sum is going to be equal to plus/minus zero, we're equidistant. I therefore believe that it is an advantage to bet wider than what the Government has done, and we are going to follow the development of the arctic eyes. My supplementary question to the Council of State will be: Can the Council of State do well to ensure that, at the end of this enlargement period, small and medium-sized enterprises will feel a considerable relief in the form field if the Government remains in office?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e863	Let me first say that I think it is important that representatives such as Hedstrom and the opposition, as the representative himself said, and that opinion expects results in this area. I record that there is now a government and a government council that is responsible for this, which makes the opposition and opinion seem to believe that there is a basis for having expectations of results. That is a great step forward. That wasn't the case before. Then you almost saw it as impossible. It is definitely so that the government is now waging a multi-frontal war against this, both on the form itself through the Task Register, where we now see that the form load for the companies goes down – that is, after all, the most important thing – and in the case of what may be the part of the iceberg that we do not see, namely the amount of regulation and regulation, which is so large. I refer you to the President of the NHO, who wrote in a comprehensive letter from the reader after Christmas that a Norwegian government has never conducted such a wide and comprehensive fight against this bureaucracy. That's necessary, and we do!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e872	I thank the Council of State for the answer to my supplementary question. I would like to remind you of the promises made by the Council of State to small and medium-sized enterprises, which he made in 1997. It wasn't on behalf of the Government, but of course on behalf of the Left. As for the form field, I tend to characterize it as a ten-headed troll. If you cut off one head, there's nine left, and it can grow new out. I want to comply with the Data Protection Act, where the Board of Enterprise has revealed that 12 out of 17 state agencies do not comply with the obligation to investigate the time spent by businesses before introducing new form obligations. Will the Council of State address this issue and listen to the Economic and Social Council, which consists of enterprises in Norway and their organisations, and which can help the Government in this work in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e883	I can stand by the promises I made on behalf of the Left in the election in 1997: When we get the opportunity – as we now have in the government – we will use all the forces we have to help simplify this, which is a social problem as it has grown for many years. Very much in the statistics that many now use, and sometimes abusers, suggests that we are about to turn around. Then it is important that all good forces contribute, make suggestions and identify problems. Only the effort to get an overview of this regulatory quantity is enormous. I just got an overview of what we have of rules and regulations only within health, environment and safety, which are 27 pages where there is one line for each rule – it just says how extensive a work this is. But we're going on in a lot of areas, where the whole government apparatus has an enthusiasm for what's to be done, because you agree on the problem. In order to make it possible to see in advance where the problems come in this area, the government has decided to launch a test panel. It will be done during this year under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, precisely to identify such unintended problems before implementing the rules, and possibly not to implement them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e894	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: «According to Dun & Bradstreet Norway AS, 31 000 companies have failed to disclose management wages in their 1998 Annual Report. What can the Council of State initially do with auditors who make an auditor’s statement without a company having fulfilled their obligation to provide information?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e903	The accounting officer shall disclose the salary of the Executive Director, etc. It follows from the Accounting Act. The auditor shall assess whether the annual accounts have been drawn up and determined in accordance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions. Furthermore, the auditor is required to carry out his activities in accordance with good audit practice. It follows from good audit practice that, when reviewing the annual accounts of the Management Board, the auditor shall ensure that the information required by law has been properly presented. A auditor who does not comply with good audit practice may be reported to the Credit Authority and risk being a member of the Auditor’s Association. It is the credit supervision that may have to consider withdrawing approval as an auditor on a case-by-case basis. The Ministry of Finance, by letter of 25 January 2000, to the Board of Auditors, has requested an explanation of the practice of its members in verifying whether the Accounting Act requires remuneration to be paid to the Executive Director, etc. shall be disclosed. The Board of Auditors has been asked to respond by 15 February 2000. The Ministry has further asked in the letter for an assessment of the need to tighten up practice. In the light of the answer given by the Auditor’s Association, the Department will consider the matter in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e912	On behalf of the Left, I feel a certain time pressure in this matter. Now, from my point of view, it's about making changes to the option rules. We believe that this is necessary because the knowledge companies need a better system to keep workers. The assumption for this has been that there is now full transparency – not least because of the media's active activities in terms of management salaries, option schemes and such things – so that we could safely go back to the old scheme. When now 31,000 AS violates the law, I believe that it must be reacted. I have also been in contact with the Auditor's Association, I know what answer they want to give. What worries me a little is that in a letter to Dun & Bradstreet on 26 November 1999, the Credit Authority almost says that this will be charged by the Credit Authority if the auditor has not taken up the relationship, etc. By doing so, I believe that it is going a little too slowly on the basis of the option efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e917	With regard to the option rules, both the Prime Minister and I have on several occasions announced that the Government will present a proposal for changes to the option rules. Although recent changes have occurred, we agree that they are still not good enough, and that we need to have rules for options in Norway, including taxation, that are competitive in relation to what you have in other countries. I agree that this might be seen in the context of what is really the issue, but there will be proposals for option changes in any case. Nevertheless, I believe that it is unsatisfactory to the greatest extent when as many as 31,000 companies have not made their obligation to disclose management salaries in their annual accounts. We do not just intend to remove the matter, but we have found it reasonable at first to contact the Auditor's Association in order to hear their assessment and get information from there, also to assess whether there is a need to tighten up the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e922	When I began to take an interest in this matter and was told how the registers in Brønnøysund operate, it turned out that they do not check any of the items in the papers they receive. They receive papers and count them up, see that they have received what they should have, and then they have finished the matter. I have also asked how much use is made of the possibility of sanctions against those who – more or less consciously and repeatedly – do not comply with the law. I've been told that the number of forced resolutions has now risen from 300 to 1,000 per. years. The reason why I mention this, when I asked in my question what the Minister of Finance would initially do with the auditors, is that I happen to have a question in retrospect that might affect the Minister of Justice, and I suggest that the Minister of Finance cooperates with him on this: how can you equip the Brønn Island Health Registers to ensure that the law is followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e927	Yes, I will include the invitation to bring up with the Minister of Justice what might be done to ensure that the Brønn Island Health Registers also check what they get. But we have, for our part, asked for more things in that letter to the Auditor's Association of Yesterday that I referred to. Among other things, we have asked the association to consider the appropriate response the auditor should take to companies that have not done their statutory duty, namely to disclose the management remuneration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e935	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘Autodiesel is a charge intended to replace the mileage charge for motor vehicles and to target cars, with some exceptions. Fuel oil is exempt from the charge as it is used for heating the house. There are rules on how large these deliveries can be. If a delivery exceeds the rules in the event of an accident, such as 5 litres, the legislation states that it is to be calculated auto-diesel charge for the whole delivery even if the oil has been proven to be used for heating purposes. Does the Council of State consider this to be a sensible and fair arrangement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e944	Following the decision of the Storting to levy a levy on mineral oil for the propulsion of motor vehicles, known as auto-diesels, is to be paid. This oil shall be unlabelled. Exemptions from the levy are made when labelled oil is used. Marked oil may include, inter alia: used for firing. The labelling system was introduced in October 1993. The brand kerosene was found to result in coatings and soot formations in the special Norwegian kerosene furnaces with shell and wick burners. Against this background, in 1994 the Ministry adopted decisions to suspend the labelling of kerosene for use in kerosene burners. It was authorised that the exemption from car diesel duty was implemented in a way other than by the use of labelled diesel, i.e. that the use of unlabelled kerosene was authorised under certain conditions. One of the conditions was that the delivery of unlabelled oil would only be for tanks with a maximum tank content of 1,400 litres. The aim was to prevent abuse and facilitate control. I agree that it does not seem appropriate to carry out a comprehensive back-calculation if the quantity limit is exceeded by a few litres. The Directorate for Customs and Charges states that they are not aware that back-calculations have been made in such cases. However, the case-by-case recalculation has to be considered in concrete terms. Otherwise, I can state that the kerosene special scheme is being phased out. In view of the problems identified by the kerosene for kerosene furnaces, new branding substances were adopted on 20 August 1999. A transitional arrangement has been adopted until 20 February 2000 to allow the use of the old marking substances during that period. With effect from 20 February 2000, the system of authorisation for the use of unlabelled kerosene will also cease.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e955	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When he says that there is no post-calculated charge for small exceedances that he knows about, or the directorate knows about, it must be due to poor information. I can get him evidence that it has happened in a number of cases, and he will receive a copy of a letter from the oil company Shell, for example, where these grotesque conditions are revealed. There must be something that is completely wrong, when it is possible to calculate the car diesel tax on oil that one has burned up in the oven at home in the house. It has nothing to do with car diesel. When the department, through the directorate, makes regulations and imposes penalties according to the free discretion of the administration, and uses car diesel as a penalty, something is wrong. And I'll ask you, when is this going to end?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e962	Yes, it is possible that the department's information is too poor, but at least we have done the best we can to get the information we can get by contacting the Customs and Charges Directorate, which should have the information to be available in this area. However, I may think that this is now the last time to discuss, because, as I informed at the end of my answer, on 20 February – there are not many days left – the whole scheme will end. At least there will be no problem for a very long time, as the scheme expires on 20 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e970	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Some truck owners arranged a short time ago an action that blocked the main road through Oslo. The police responded with the seizure of driving licences and fines, the first is actually to deprive drivers of their work. Over several years we have witnessed that teachers, aircraft personnel, oil workers etc. have organised illegal actions, without resulting in such reactions. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to treat drivers differently by depriving them of their work or by punishing them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e979	As I have been informed by the Oslo Police District, none of the drivers who took part in the blockade to which it is referred have been seized for their driving licence. I can otherwise inform you that driving licences can be confiscated under Section 33 of the Road Traffic Act. 5 if, for duly justified reasons, the licence holder is suspected of a criminal offence which may result in withdrawal. § 33 nr. of the Road Traffic Act 1 provides for the withdrawal of driving licences if the holder of a driving licence has been sentenced or sentenced to a criminal offence. It is a requirement that road safety considerations or general considerations require withdrawal. Withdrawal of driving licences is decided by the police with the right to apply to the Ministry of Justice. In its enforcement instructions, the Ministry of Justice has not given specific guidance that driving licences should be withdrawn once the holder has participated in the illegal traffic block. Nor, as far as I have been able to gain experience, has the Ministry of Justice dealt with some complaints where driving licences have been withdrawn as a result of the criminal punishment for illegal traffic blocks. The question has therefore not yet been specifically assessed by the Ministry. However, there is reason to stress that caution should be exercised when the underlying action is linked to political demonstrations, wage struggles or similar situations. With regard to the issue of fines, this is a matter that falls within the jurisdiction of the prosecution, with the national lawyer as the chief executive. I therefore do not think it right to go into this part of the question. As you know, several demonstrations have been carried out by truck owners in Oslo, where they have blocked the access roads. The police officer in Oslo has now said that she will not accept any more actions of such a significant size in Oslo. I have been briefed by the Oslo chief of police about the actions carried out by the freight drivers and her assessments in this context, and I will also make sure to keep myself informed about future actions. Otherwise, I have confidence that the police will continue to handle load image demonstrations in a professional and reasonable manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e996	I thank you for your answer. It is gratifying that there has been no seizure of certificates, although this was to be read in the newspapers in connection with these protest actions. But even if that is the case, there has been fines. We have witnessed several illegal strikes from teachers, oilworkers and others for as simple things as higher pay. What's happening in the truck industry is much more dramatic. I'm interpreting this as an emergency call from the trucks. It is not just the truck drivers who are the losers, it is the carriers in their entirety, it is Norwegian export companies – and Norwegian jobs are at risk, especially in the districts. So I hope the minister can give a signal that fines are also not a suitable tool for people who are calling for help.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1003	Now the asker asks me to comment on future situations. I will do that in the following way: the police chief in Oslo so that demonstrations could be accepted at a certain point, given that they had been reported. From a certain point of view, she thought that the opinion had been seen and heard, and she then gave a clear limit, that enough was enough. It is my opinion that if illegal traffic block actions continue, the police will necessarily need to make an ongoing assessment of the situation with a view to solving the acute problems that arise. The instruments that would then have to be put in place would depend on a concrete assessment of the situation and would have to be proportionate to the adverse effects of the illegal blockade. In such a situation, on behalf of the police, I cannot exclude the use of the instruments available to the police. It's the police who operationally have the freedom to do it, and in my previous response, I have expressed confidence in the police's ability to handle it. The more general issues of a political nature that have been raised, I have registered, and I know that they will be addressed, among others. in a meeting on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1012	I agree with the Minister of Justice that illegal action should not be accepted, and that is not done either. Now it is well that what is going on today are legal actions in which the Truck Car Association has tried best not to hit third parties, by releasing buses, police and fire trucks and passenger cars, as should be done. However, I think it is understandable that the actions continue, when jobs are put at risk by what is happening to the lorry industry. I would like to ask the Minister if he believes it is understandable that such actions are being carried out, when companies go bankrupt, when you see foreign carriers take over more and more of the work, and when it affects the district companies very hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1019	Legal decisions affecting Norwegian citizens are decided in Stortinget. It is also the case that in this country there is a freedom of expression that can also include — and include — demonstrations. If the demonstrations are given an extent and a course that affects other important societal interests, the police law provides for provisions allowing the police to intervene operationally. Moreover, on the more general policy issues raised in the case, I would like to refer to the meeting to be held between the Minister of Finance and representatives of the truck industry later this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1029	I have the following questions to the State Council Dørum: ‘The foreign registry of Kripos contains 37,000 fingerprints. Cross-checking with 32,000 unidentified fingerprints from criminal cases is prohibited, although it also applies to foreigners expelled from Norway. What are the positions of the Council of State that significant fingerprints cannot be cross-checked in Norway, when well-developed countries in Europe have this opportunity in their fight against crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1038	Section 37 of the Foreign Affairs Act allows for fingerprints to be taken by non-residents when specified conditions in the law are present, such as: he/she is unable to demonstrate his/her identity or there is reason to believe that false identity is provided, or he/she is seeking asylum or an authorisation under the law. The fingerprints in foreign affairs are used in the management of foreign affairs but are stored in a separate file in Kripos' general fingerprint register for practical and economic reasons. When fingerprints are taken by a non-resident, they are checked in the foreign registry to see if he is already registered there under the same or different identity. At the same time, the general fingerprint register is sought to check whether the foreigner has been sought for criminal offences in Norway or other countries. The regulation states that searches in the register shall not take place in the course of criminal investigations conducted in Norway. The reason for this is that an unwanted wish to place asylum seekers in a more vulnerable position than other non-registered or Norwegian citizens who are not registered with fingerprints, unless they have committed criminal offences. The question of allowing the use of the foreign register in the context of serious criminal investigations was considered in the establishment of the register in 1992. Although many of the hearing bodies at the time were positive about allowing searches, the department was then left standing by not yet allowing the regulation to cover such use of the register. Although crime statistics show that asylum seekers and other non-residents applying for a permit under the Foreign Law are no more criminal than most people, I am now open to consider a limited use of the register in the investigation of serious criminal offences. Although it can be claimed that foreigners who are registered, thereby entering a more vulnerable position than persons who are not registered, I would point out that in many cases we know very little about the background of those who come here, including whether they have had a criminal track. In addition, it must be pointed out that organised international crime is a ‘growth industry’. It is important for me to ensure that the police have access to sufficient tools to combat such serious crime. However, a prerequisite for allowing access to a use of the register must be to take due account of both privacy and non-discrimination between registered asylum seekers and other non-residents and Norwegian citizens, who are not registered with fingerprints. Such restrictions that I have referred to also exist in other countries. In Sweden, the police must have permission from the Immigrant Office before they can make searches in the register. It is assumed, inter alia, that: the establishment of criminal proceedings prior to the conduct of a search. In Denmark, applications in the register may be made only after the judgment of the court. What restrictions, if any, should be imposed in Norway if such use is to be allowed, is a question I would like to consider more closely during the further examination of the case. My conclusion is that I am willing to consider a limited use of such a connection as has been asked about here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1053	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Although it went a little fast, I was very satisfied with the conclusion. Initially, the Council of State said something that we may all know, that all asylum seekers arriving in the country have a mandatory obligation to take fingerprints and to be registered in the foreign registry. For Kripos, it is important to have the opportunity to check unidentified fingerprints against the fingerprint register of asylum seekers in criminal matters, and this will actually be possible with a modest approach. Cross-checks should also include foreigners expelled from Norway. I hope the Council of State shares this view.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1062	I do not want to go into the details of what I want to make an assessment of. I just want to repeat what I have said about assessing a connection in special circumstances to combat serious crime. And it also appears that when this case was being consulted, around 1991-92, it was also the bodies that set the precedents for how this should be done. That is what I pointed out also happens in Sweden and Denmark. It is such a system that I now assess the practice in Norway, and I will, of course, come back to the question when the assessment is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1067	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and look forward to the evaluation being carried out. These possibilities that cross-checks will provide include: to strengthen a possible new Norwegian police body, which is now to fight against organised crime at borders, and that is also at the police's own request. It takes seconds to check a fingerprint, and it is important to use Kripos" hypermodern data registers in full. This is therefore positive, and it is very important to comply with the police's wishes in this area in order to expose criminal foreigners in Norway, and also all other criminal elements. After all, asylum seekers who have done nothing wrong have nothing to fear, and in this way fingerprints can help to eliminate suspicions against people. I also hope that the Council of State agrees with such a conclusion by the undersigned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1076	My conclusion can be repeated. Based on what was also true in 1992, I see no need to make a general link, but for reasons stated in my reply, namely that it is important to guard against serious crime, I am willing to assess a limited system according to clear criteria based on legal certainty, legal convictions and privacy. I refer to the parallels you have to this in other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1086	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Sunnmaere is a district consisting of a number of islands and fjords, while the district has a very high traffic on the sea – these are a large number of recreational boats and fishing vessels, but also cargo boats and other shipping. If the police had to move out to a situation that occurred at sea, they would have a problem. Sunny Police Chamber doesn't have a police boat. Does the Council of State consider this to be appropriate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1095	The Ålesund police district has conducted an analysis of the need for a police boat, and recommends the acquisition of such a boat. Ship traffic to and from Ålesund is high, and in addition there are a significant number of recreational boats. – The police officer in Sunnmøre applied in September 1999 for a police boat to the Sunnmøre police district, but the department has informed the police chief that the application cannot be met. In its assessment of the application, the Ministry has, inter alia: stressed the need for police operations. The representative of Nesvik raises the question as to whether it is appropriate for the Sunnmore police districts not to have a boat. With regard to proper preparedness for rescue operations in connection with accidents at sea, I believe it is only right that the Sunnmare police districts do not have a boat. The police’s maritime service shall primarily monitor recreational boat traffic. Rescue operations shall be carried out by others. The preparedness for marine accidents is good in Ålesund. The «Emmy Dyvi» rescue boat has a fixed port in Ålesund and, in addition, Ålesund is located in the patrol area of the inner coastguard, the vessel KV «Garsøy». If necessary, the more seagoing vessels of the Coast Guard may also provide assistance. In my opinion, the readiness of the representative to mention such things as recreational boats, fishing vessels, cargo ships and other shipping is thus satisfactory in Sunnmøre police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1106	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say that I am wondering about the content of the answer to the Council of State. In More and Romesdal, a police boat has been given to Kristiansund and to Molde, but in terms of the deciduous largest district, with the largest shipping traffic and the largest number of recreational boats, it is said that there is no problem, and there is no danger of either getting ready or anything else in connection with the traffic going on. I don't know about, among other things. The Council of State is aware of developments that have been taking place in recent years, where it is actually felt that drugs are raging on the shores of the district. It also introduces control in relation to what's related to per thousand at sea. You can see in the district that it's overflowing with contraband, in the case of spirits, cigarettes, and a number of other things. And then I have to ask the Council of State: does this development not concern the Council of State? And what is the basis for Molde and Kristiansund getting a police boat, but not Sunnmaere, which is the largest district?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1115	There is no policy consideration from my point of view – with knowledge of the political and social geography of More and Romesdal – behind the assessment. I am obliged at all times to evaluate the resources available to the ministry and have done so. Of course, I will also keep doing that. What I stressed in my answer is the following: As far as the police's rescue mission is concerned, there is access to resources. In the case of recreational boats, I consider it the way I did the right thing in my answer. But, of course, I am very aware of the questions raised by the representative on drug traffic. This is not only true on Sunnmare; unfortunately it is also true on other parts of the coast. Therefore, for such reasons, I would like to continuously assess the need for something to happen with regard to the police operation's ability to combat such traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1122	Either the council believes it or not, this time there was no conflict of law in the picture. But in many cases it may be in this district. What is the issue is that the police are being charged with ever-increasing tasks, including those relating to the sea, the developments we see in, among other things. the use of small boats, a constant influx of tourists by small boats in the district, and not least, because this is very widespread in the summer months, there is also the problem of alcohol-related problems. And it's based on the fact that I'm worried about the evolution that we're seeing. The police are getting more and more tasks, but are completely unable to solve those tasks as a result of the absence of central government appropriations. And what's my question is what assessments are behind when smaller districts are allocated police boats, while a district that has the development that Sunnmaere has does not have the same opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1129	It is good that the representative and I obviously have it in common that we do not base federal policy; we base police operational needs. And then it's like I have to evaluate the resources I have available, in relation to what's the situation. I'm going to keep going. And I said in my previous answer that I'm very familiar with the development that we're now unfortunately seeing in our country, that you're trying to get in with stuff on the coast. It is a very serious development. I have even been made acquainted with these conditions during a visit to the Sunnmore Police District. Unfortunately, there are other areas as well. And in such a perspective, I want to continuously assess the operational needs of the police to do their job – I have said that, and I would like to repeat that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1137	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘It is now beginning to see the results of the fact that the police are not allocated the resources they need to do the job they are assigned to do. According to Sunnmørsposten, January 14, 2000, only 1/3 of the winnings were cleared in the district. This is in relation to the fact that if this district is to have a crew on the national average, more than 50 new posts will have to be filled. What will the Council of State do to correct this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1146	Over the last few years, the police and officers' seat has been allocated considerable resources. The number of persons added to the establishment has been increased by approx. 33 pst. during the 1990s. In 1999, 15 new police posts were allocated between police districts. Of these, two posts were allocated to Sunnmøre police districts. Furthermore, the revised 1999 national budget established 275 posts which were offered to pre-educated high school police students. Among these positions, Sunnmøre police districts received 12 official positions. Sunny police districts thus received 14 official positions in 1999. For the percentage of clearance, the national average is 36 pst. For Sunnmøres part, this is 34.2 pst. In addition to the manpower situation of police statistics, there are other issues that affect how many cases a police district solves. Key factors here are the organisation, structuring and management of the investigation itself, and not least the cooperation between lawyers and investigators. Good communication between the actors involved in criminal proceedings may be crucial for the results. If a police statistics have potential for improvement in these circumstances, resource supply will not always deliver the expected results. In a police district, there may occasionally be cases where a person has to re-prioritise resources for shorter or longer periods. For Sunnmaere's part, it has been the case several times during the year that passed. In St. prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, it has been recognised that the Government will come back in connection with the creation of new posts in the revised national budget. It is estimated that the need will be approx. 280 posts. The positions will be allocated to those areas where the need is greater. In this context, it will be assessed whether new posts should be allocated to Sunnmore police districts. The distribution of positions to police districts is mainly calculated on the basis of population, crime and housing density. Following a mission from Stortinget, the Ministry of Justice has drawn up a police crew plan towards 2005. It will be discussed in a press release on the police, scheduled to be presented in autumn 2000. In my opinion, the police directorate that will soon be set up by Stortinget will also provide a better opportunity to follow up on what is happening in the police districts. I would also like to follow up on what the Committee on Legal Affairs said in the course of the budgetary procedure for this year that we should look at whether there are special bottlenecks in the various police districts in terms of the ability to fight crime effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1165	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I also noticed that you are not now – at least not at this time – willing to enter and promise new positions for this police district. Only every three winning cases will be solved on Sunnmowers. The ‘violence police in crisis’ is the title of Saturday 15 January – solved five out of 127 cases in the area of profit crime. The clearance rate is so low that it's really soon just to say be so good to criminals, we have no reason to settle these matters anyway. My question to the Council of State is this: Does this development in this district concern the Council of State, and does it feel that there is sufficient staff on Sunnmare when the measures mentioned by the Council of State are put in place and greater cross-border cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1174	The representative can hardly expect, after a budgetary procedure in November to December, to operate with a different framework and distribution from that on which it was based in January. What I have said, however, is that we should follow up on what the Committee on Justice has said – and therefore the treatment of the Stortinge, where we fully agree that we should look at bottlenecks in the various police districts, and then we have to look at different factors. Of course, we need to look at crews, but we also need to look at organisation and other types of possible bottlenecks. We'll do that without going around in any part of the country. If that happens then, as I said, I will come back to it in connection with the revised national budget, where we have a duty to look at the question of how to secure new high school police students' jobs. Then the distribution question will also come up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1179	That's right, as the Council of State says, you shouldn't be able to expect to be able to go in and look at this now. But I really expected, when you've seen developments in recent years, that something had been done about this a long time ago. I was previously in contact with Stranda Länsmannskontoret, which has a fairly large district, it borders on Uppland, it borders on Sogn and Fjordane and also on Geiranger, and to get there you have to take ferries. At that office there are four officers at work, and there is no one there after noon. 15th You've got office hours from 7:00. 08-15. After that, you have so-called home guards where you can be called. I have to say that this is a development that worries me. When allocating these posts, will the Council of State take account of the fact that police officers also have a working system to live with?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1188	Of course, I do not know all the details about the watch arrangements in all of them. 350 offices in Norway, and I therefore do not know the situation in Stranda in concrete terms. But what I know is that, in large parts of the country, good vigilance has been developed, which is just ensuring that police services are effectively available most of the day. I would like, among other things: look at such issues in all police districts, including at Sunnmøre, when we consider the issue of resources, and I will look at the factors associated with organisation, and I aim, among other things. to the scope of vigilance cooperation. In the case of short-term jobs, there is a question that will be addressed in the revised national budget. In terms of positions in principle, redistribution between districts, it is a theme for the forecasting message coming to the autumn, where we will present both the needs of police personnel and the distribution between police districts. However, I would like to point out that when you consider it to be below the national average, it is probably one-sidedly linked to the population, because in terms of crime too, you are also below the national average on Sunnmare. But there's no comfort. It's a bad percentage of clarification, and we've earned it all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1200	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘A working group to assess new procedures and working methods for the notification of missing persons delivered its opinion on 13 March 1997. How has this matter been followed up in the Ministry of Justice?"
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1209	On 19 March 1996, the Ministry of Justice appointed a working group mandated to assess current investigation practices in relation to the notification of the individual concerned, both nationally and internationally. In addition, the mandate stated that the Group would, where appropriate, propose new procedures and instructions for the receipt and processing of notifications of the individual concerned, including the assessment of the present forms, time limits and registration. The working group presented its investigation on 13 March 1997 in which a number of complex issues were assessed. The Group concluded that the review of police practice in case-by-case cases shows the need for firm and more standardised procedures. This concerns both receipt of notifications, registration and processing, clearer responsibilities between several police districts that may be affected by the individual case, more standardised investigation and other follow-up. Many matters about the individual concerned affect more police districts, and thus not just the territory where the disabled belong. This group's settings have been unattended. Consultation bodies are consistently in favour of the proposals for new procedures and new forms. The investigation is now finalising in the Ministry of Justice. Review of the legislation and any proposals on statutory audits are under way in the Ministry. This concerns in particular the legal issues relating to the rules of professional secrecy and the information the police can obtain. The main task is to identify how far today’s legislation goes in terms of exchanging information — both inside and outside criminal proceedings. The Ministry of Justice has taken the initiative to investigate the scope of professional secrecy. When this inquiry is available, the proposals of the Working Party could be finalised in the Department both in terms of the legal issues and the economic and administrative consequences. However, many of the measures could have been implemented during the first six months of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1220	I thank you for your answer. The Minister of Justice here confirms that this work has taken a long time, but it is a pleasure now to give high priority, and that action will be taken during the spring. The background to my question is that a youth was reported missing in July 1994 in Tønsberg. The closest were not interviewed, no technical investigations were carried out on his bicycle, nor were they questioned by those who saw him last time. 14 months went by before Kripos got into the picture, and you can see how dramatic and tragic this was for the relatives. When a working group was then appointed in 1996 to look at new practices and working methods, it was hoped that the investigation procedures would improve. The question will then be whether the need for a rapid response from society is being addressed, especially in the case of minors. Does the Minister of Justice agree that the guidelines need to be as specific as possible, so that those concerned know what they have to do with and that general legal certainty is ensured?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1229	The representative is quite right that the matter has taken time. It's actually one of the reasons why I've spent the first year of my time as Minister of Justice ensuring that the Ministry of Justice has been reorganized, not because of this case, but because of the enormous amount of business and the need for orderly structures. But it is also true that the question asked by the representative is entirely justified. Of course, clear rules are served for this. Anyone who has been close to such a situation as described will understand it. That is why I also confirmed that the work is being completed. I have my own ability to walk in drawers and see what's in them. My department does that too, so that when we cooperated on it, we jointly managed to get something out already in the first six months. But we have to wait for something, because it is linked to the general review of confidentiality provisions. I share the representative's concern, and I also share her impatience to get practical results on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1238	I thank you here for the follow-up of the Minister of Justice on my question. When a person disappears, it touches our society in a very special way. This particular case triggered a strong reaction in the local population, collecting money for a private investigator. In a state of law, this should be unnecessary in such a case. The Minister of Justice says that economic and administrative consequences should be investigated. The family knows another freedom in the matter when they know that everything that can be done is done, even if the result is negative. Someone wants to disappear. But especially when minors get away, the point must be that they are being found again. The speedy moment is therefore important. I remind you that when more people are affected at the same time, society is providing systematic emergency aid. Equally dramatic, it's too touching when one person suddenly disappears. So I would like to ask what status these new routines have in the political spheres. Will they be given such legitimacy that they do not create conflict between relatives and the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1249	After all, the police are charged with an enormous number of tasks, which they do well. It is shown, among others: in the case of questions of the nature raised here and as we see in the case of rescue operations. But here, as the representative says, it's about individuals. The whole purpose of producing legislation is to avoid conflicts. That's why it's important to get it in place. But some of it may be related to professional secrecy in some contexts. There I took a certain reservation. I did not make a reservation about starting the job, because that is the right thing for us to do. In response to the representative's original question, I said that the work was being completed, and I said that a number of measures would be in place within the first six months. Then it's like when the police have guidelines in place, they follow them too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1259	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The UN’s resolution of 18 and 19 January 2000 states that a significant reduction in its appropriations for 2000 and a dramatic cut in the operational budgets of the districts has been achieved. [[UP]] The UP believes that this would mean significantly lower control activities, especially in the districts. What is the basis for reduced appropriations, and what will the Council of State do to maintain the level of road safety work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1268	In 1998, the National Audit Office carried out a check on expenditure relating to travel activities during the IP. The National Audit Office’s question as to whether the UP was exempted from the provisions of the Ministry of Justice circular G-46/96, which regulates food allowances for service or travel within the place of employment. In the Ministry of Justice’s reply of 30 March 1999 to the Riksrevision, it was established that the IP was not exempted from the guidelines set out in that circular. The Ministry’s clarification of how the guidelines were to be understood led the UP to change its practice. The result is a lower payment for food compensation in 2000 than in 1999. The amendment therefore also has budgetary implications for the UP, which is, of course, taken into account in the 2000 budget. I also find it important to stress that funds that are saved on lower cost of food compensation are kept in the building as variable means, and that the level of service to the public is maintained. The representative of Bjørnstad has taken into account the budgetary situation of the external operating stages of the IP. I would like to stress that the allocation of the UP budget to individual sub-divisions during the UP is the responsibility of the UP Chief. I have no desire to intervene in internal budgetary processes as per. the definition is anchored in the individual unit, in this case the UP. After the ministry has been informed by the head of the UP, only a preliminary budget for 2000 has been allocated to the UP districts and there are several clarifications that will take place in the near future, which will have an impact on the budgets of the outlying operational stages. It has not been the Ministry's intention to reduce the level of activity in traffic services. The Ministry is in dialogue with the UP Head of the Budget and if budgetary adjustments are necessary in order to maintain the UP activity at a high level, this is something that the Ministry will further consider in cooperation with the UP Chief. Traffic safety work has been devoted to a large part of the Ministry's 2000 letter of award to the police officers. The Ministry of Justice issued a traffic strategy plan in June 1998. In line with the strategy plan, the Department of the Police Department and the UP have said that the level of activity for road safety work should be maintained, while at the same time increasing the quality of road safety work. Priority shall be given to action against traffic behaviour with the highest risk of accidents or with the greatest potential to reduce the damage. This means that control activities should continue to focus on accident-affected road sections and accident-affected road users’ groups. The areas of intervention shall consist primarily of speed disturbances, driving in a drug-induced state, the use of personal protective equipment and aggressive traffic behaviour. I also find reason to point out that the police have used more than 50 breathing instruments from 15 January 2000 in order to improve the efficiency of their efforts against alcohol-induced driving. Furthermore, 125 laser speed indicators have been acquired in the past and 10-15 radar meters are planned to be purchased in order to further intensify speed control. With this, I would like to stress that my intentions in this area are that road safety work should be maintained at a high level and that quality should be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1287	Traffic accidents cause the loss of hundreds of lives and lead to tens of thousands of injuries each year. Traffic safety shall prevent accidents and serious traffic offences are a high priority area within the National Advocate-General's list of priorities. It's a fact that speed and prom are a major cause of accidents. A large proportion of road safety work is carried out by visible police, where the police are an essential component. This is about control activities. The change that occurred last summer, which has had budgetary implications for this year, has led, according to the IP itself, to dramatic consequences in relation to control activities, and there is a not insignificant decrease in control activities during the second half of last year, especially in districts. My objective is the same as that of the Council of State: to maintain control activities and road safety. And my question is, was the Council of State aware of the effects of the change that happened last summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1296	When the changes in food allowance occurred after the communication with the National Audit Office that I explained, there is no doubt that there was some unrest in the UP. I was familiar with that. But I was probably not prepared for it to last that long. I would like to stress that the Department is in a dialogue with the organisations to see if sensible compensatory measures can be found. It is also the case, as I said in my main response, that the Department is ‘in dialogue with the UP Head of Budget, and if budgetary adjustments prove necessary in order for the UP activity to be maintained at a high level’, we will discuss this in cooperation with the UP Chief. I want to underline it. At the same time, I would like to stress that when the Riksrevision gives instructions, we are all subject to them, and then we will find the practical arrangements that are possible. I have the confidence in organizations and departments and those who work on this, that you have a willingness to find solutions. That's what road users have done, and that's why I in the post on a general basis underlined what has been said both in the budget and from me now, namely that road safety is a high priority on the part of the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1305	I just want to repeat that I and the Council of State clearly share the objective of maintaining road safety work, maintaining public service and not reducing activity in relation to control activities. I am pleased that the Council of State says, although he says he will not go into the allocation of funds, that he will be here watching this, and I expect the Council of State to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of how, if any, compensatory arrangements can meet the level of control activities as at present. I therefore do not take a position on how, and I have a strong understanding that the Council of State – of course – is following up on the requests made by the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1310	The representative and I both have a common understanding of what is a government's responsibility and a great responsibility, both in the past and today. Storing and government agree on the main objectives of road safety. It is a government and a department's responsibility to find practical solutions to this. It is clear that I will reasonably inform you about the way in which road safety work is carried out. I just want to stress that if I had not had positive views of the UP as I see it, I would not have suggested in the proposition presented to the Stortinget, the motion for a resolution on the Police Directorate, that the UP should be maintained as a separate unit, which I record in the committee position has received majority approval. From my point of view, it is one way of stressing that I see the UP as an important tool to combat traffic accidents and road damage, and will, of course, base it on my further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1317	Question 14 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1330	This question has been postponed. We're now going back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1338	This question, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1341	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In Norway we have the oldest car park in Western Europe with an average of 10 years old cars. Of families with three children, it's 97 pst. Who has a car. Of families with two children, it's 92 pst. Who has a car. These are driving around in the most dangerous cars in Western Europe. Does the Council of State consider this to be satisfactory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1350	Let me first underline that the Government prioritises the work of reducing the number of accidents with damage and killing very high. This is also the background for an action plan on road safety to be drawn up by the submission of the national transport plan 2002–2011 in spring. Traffic safety work today needs to be carried out on many fronts, where training, monitoring and monitoring, improved technical standards and design of road safety are important measures. Strengthening road safety work in general and concrete measures to reduce accidents will be central to this plan. The average age of the Norwegian car park has changed little in the last five years. However, there has been an increase in the registration of new passenger cars from approx. 85 000 in 1994 to more than 100 000 in 1999, and the number of wrecked passenger cars has increased from about 100 000 in 1999. 53 000 in 1994 to over 75 000 in 1998. The latter is assumed, inter alia: to be consistent with the introduction of periodic vehicle checks for passenger cars from 1 January 1998. When the car is more than four years old, technical inspection shall be carried out every two years. It shall then be checked that the vehicle is in good condition, both for road safety and for the environment. There is reason to believe that these checks will contribute to the withdrawal of the oldest and most dangerous cars. It can also be mentioned that in 1996 there was a temporary system of increased wreckage. This has also helped to close the worst cars. It is appropriate to consider whether a similar scheme should be implemented at a later stage. Studies conducted by the Institute for Transport Economics have shown that the accident risk is higher for new than for older cars. According to the Transport Economics Institute, the main explanation for this is that the drivers adjust the behaviour according to the characteristics of the car. Better safety equipment, such as: collision cushions and anti-lock brakes on the most recent cars reduce the consequences of an accident, but this appears to some extent to be compensated by other conditions such as: choice of higher driving speed. The results of TØI’s investigation, although uncertain, do not indicate that the age of the car park in Norway means that it is at risk of accident. As mentioned above, the government will have a review of road safety work in its national transport plan with a view to minimising the level of accidents. I can answer the question asked by the representative Jan Johnsen that I share his concern about the use of road-hazardous cars. But at the same time, based on what I have said here, I would like to stress that increasing control measures have been put in place, which I believe will help to remove the worst cars from traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1363	I thank the Minister for the answer. It is a fact that the older the car is, the less safety it is in the car. It was the minister himself inside, with airbags and anti-lock brakes as examples. My claim is that the more expensive it is to get a car, the greater the charges, the more difficult it is for families with children to get hold of these cars. Here in the country we have to pay for two cars to get one – one we have to give to the state at a clean fee, while we can keep the other ourselves. Does the Minister think that the charging policy in this field has a bearing on what families of children can buy in the case of a car?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1370	Yes, the Minister for Transport believes that the charging policy is important. The direction of charging policy is important – not always the level of charging, but the angle of charging policy. What I tried to say in my first, comprehensive response, was that it is obviously not that older cars are automatically road-hazardous cars. We're going to take out the traffic-hazardous cars. What we have experienced is that new cars – with anti-lock brakes, with cushions and other safety devices – seem to be as much involved in traffic accidents as the older cars, simply because drivers seem to take out much of the power at increased speed. Therefore, it is important to increase the control measures, take out the traffic-hazardous cars. But I cannot say here and now that there is a direct connection between older cars and traffic-hazardous cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1377	I thank you again for the answer. It was interesting to hear that the minister thought the angle was important. I believe that the angle that we have had in Norway on these things has been equal to zero and has been in disfavor of the children's families. I have a direct closing question for the Minister: What angle has the Government taken in the budget to allow the families of children to buy cars that have airbags and anti-lock brakes, i.e., newer cars than what we see they're running around today? These families are going to drive the children to kindergarten, to sports, to the tour – they're on the road pretty often, and it's about to do, I think, and the minister should also think that these cars are as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1384	Traffic safety shall be at the high seat level – we should agree on that. As far as tax policy is concerned, it would be wrong for me to go into the finance minister's field too strongly. But let me just say it this way: the government is trying to enable the families of children to have a total economy that allows you to obtain the car equipment that is as safe as possible. So, in my view, the total economy of families with children is more important than a tax linked to a part of what a family with children needs and needs. But then, as I said in my supplementary reply just now, I also admit that the angle of charging policy is important for what type of car you finally choose, both in terms of size and equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1392	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘What is the justification that the department of the national transport plan 2002-2011 proposes a stronger reduction in the road sector to Rogaland counties than the average reduction for the other counties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1399	I assume that the representatives of Nordtun are looking for are the four transport modes – the Swedish Railway Agency, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, the Swedish Aviation Agency and the Swedish Road Administration – their proposal for a national transport plan for 2002-2011. This is the professional input of the agencies into the work of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Transport on the National Transport Plan to be promoted during the spring session. The recording is based on guidelines from the departments. These guidelines provide for calculation technical financial planning frameworks, but these are not geographically distributed. The distribution of funds in the plans of the departments is therefore at the expense of the departments themselves. In its proposals, Rogaland's share of the demarcation framework is 5.1 pst. for the first four-year period and 5,0 pst. for the whole ten-year period. If one compares with previous road planning periods, Rogaland’s share is 3.1 pst. for 1990-1993, 5.2 pst. for 1994-1997 and 6.2 pst. for 1998-2001. The high proportion of the framework over the period 1998–2001 must include: are seen in the light of large bindings associated with started projects. In relation to these kinds of issues, I would like to stress that it is the needs ahead and not the previous appropriations that must determine how the effort is distributed. And I would like to remind you that, after the consultation deadline has now expired at the turn of the year, we have started the political treatment of the national transport plan. The proposals of transport modes are an important background material, but political treatment will certainly lead to changes. I do not think it is right now to comment on either the priorities or the framework level on which the Government will base the notification of the national transport plan. This will give Stortinget a good opportunity to discuss when the Storing Communication is presented later in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1410	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but after I understood it, the Council of State did not answer my question. I asked what was the reason of the trade unions that they are in favour of such a large reduction in appropriations for Rogaland compared to other states. I am going to agree with the Council of State that we have to look ahead, but does the Council of State really think that it is uninteresting what criteria the trade unions laid down when they came up with these sketches? I also look forward, and I am aware that we are going to have a political discussion of the matter, and that we are coming back to the framework then, but that the tradesetters to those degrees are returning Rogaland – on average cut is 15 p.m., while Rogaland has been notified of 35 p.m. Cutt--wonders me. Does the Council of State think this is right, and does the Council of State think that Rogaland, as the fourth largest county in Norway in terms of population, and with one of the largest car parks, is going to get so much cut in the road sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1417	I understand Nordtun's strong commitment to Rogaland and agree with his commitment. In my answer I have tried to say that it is the needs ahead and not the previous appropriations that must determine how the effort is distributed. There will also be a basis for the priority given by the Government. I could have framed here and now the various reasons for the trades – because there are four trades – but I want to refrain from doing so. They state that the NTP proposal which has been consulted. I just want to say that when the government promotes this in the spring party, what Nordtun has now argued for and brought on the table will be most closely involved in the assessments, both in relation to the framework proposed and in relation to the priorities made. I have a fairly long list of arguments from the trade unions about why they have prioritised as they have done, but don't consider it particularly topical to develop now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1422	I thank you again for the answer. What we're looking for is the rationale of the trades unions to put such a large group so strongly back in the first place. I am fully aware that political treatment will come later, and then we will see, and I am aware that Rogaland is one of many states in Norway. But I must also say that I would have liked the Minister of Transport to address more directly the reasons for the trade unions to make a proposal with such a strong reduction in appropriations in relation to the other states. And I think it's a bit serious that, in the case of a state of four major cities and urban communities, and major challenges in the districts, there is no justification either from the professional or from the political team for the large cuts that have been proposed in relation to the other states.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1429	The reasons for these facts are likely to be communicated to the county councils and to those who have been hearing bodies. One of the reasons is, among other things, the need to go high in Rogaland in the last period in relation to what has been done in the past, because of the commitment to projects, and that these are projects that are mainly solved when the periods are out. That's why I also reproduced the numbers, these percentages, which you've invested in the later periods. Then you have chosen to push some of the big projects in time for implementation. Then we have also looked at the toll financing of the Nord-Jären package and the high activity that will be in an area. Therefore, let me finally point out that the activity level and even activity level in the different counties have also been included in the assessment when the level of the individual counties is proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1438	This question, from Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1441	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: «From 1 January 2000, the municipality of Tromsø has introduced a connection fee for social alarms of NOK 225, plus a monthly rental of SEK 180. This means that someone who is dependent on a social alarm must pay NOK 2 385 per person. year of this service. In other municipalities, such as Oslo, this service is free of charge. Will the Council of State ensure that guidelines are in place to ensure that this service is provided free of charge to users throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1450	The question of the funding scheme for insurance alarms was raised when the Storing Message of the Action Plan for Senior Care, St.meld. No 50 for 1996-97, where discussed. The government was asked to settle the costs and consequences of transferring responsibility for the provision of security alarms to the assistance centres. The premise was that the expenses were to be borne by the people. The main conclusions of the presentation were presented in the 1999 budgetproposal. The distribution showed that if we were to legislate on the right to a security alarm, many, with today's legislation, would not be able to get an alarm. It was particularly true for those who had only been given an alarm because of their age or as a pure insurance and anxiety mitigation tool. The rules of the people-backed set out requirements for permanent disability or reduced mobility as conditions. Older people without physical disability will therefore fall outside. A legal basis for a security alarm will lead to a two-part funding system in which the people-backed cover alerts for those who fill the conditions for social assistance for technical assistance, while the municipalities will have to cover for the others. The decision to cancel the contract states that the municipalities would still have full responsibility for the operation. This also meant the responsibility for receiving the message and printing to the users. In the management of the 1999 budget, the Stortinget concluded its assessment of not making changes to the current system. As well as all municipalities and districts now have a service with security alarms. I am aware that there are considerable differences between municipalities in how integrated these services are in the care services. The quality assurance of the alarm services and payment systems is also different. Some municipalities use the general support to finance the system, while others do such things as Tromsø. These differences must be seen in conjunction with other services for the elderly. I have notified the municipalities that insurance alarms can be financed by the care provider. The Ministry has also started work with a guidance firm on security alerts as a security creator and prevention measure. The work shall be carried out in cooperation with the Local Governments’ Central Association. The aim is to ensure the operation and make better use of the alarms. It's e.g. be able to take advantage of technological developments taking place in the electronic sector. Coordination of purchases to municipalities may also be envisaged in the case of alarms, so that it is possible to negotiate a more favourable price. Guidance on the use and financing of alerts is also relevant. How the municipalities will solve this must be up to the individual municipality to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1463	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The problem with taxes is that charges affect those who are economically weak in society, whether municipal or state. In my opinion, this shows a great social injustice. As a result, many elderly, sick and disabled people may have to say no to the safety of such a device. They cannot afford to have a security alarm in the house, and it creates insecurity, dissatisfaction and can also lead to mental problems in the next round. The case concerns the recognition of social alarms as an aid in line with e.g.: crutches, wheelchairs, etc., administered either through the emergency centre or home care centre. Such facilities are free of charge to lend for the payment of a small deposit that the individual user or family receives when the aid is returned after use. If this service is to be provided free of charge, today's legislation needs to be amended, and it will not be the initiative of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1470	The representative Korsberg pointed to a problem that I've mentioned that one has to look closer to, and that's the total amount of possessions and who the frame is the most. In this context, the department has a work in progress, an arrangement in relation to a roof 1 and a roof 2 on properties to screen the large consumers. But when it applies to this particular part of the care services, I have also pointed to coordination with other electronics, and I have pointed to purchases at a more favourable price. I have also pointed out a discussion of guidance lines as a way to go, as well as that the municipalities are now able to use care facilities for security alarms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1478	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Nordland Central Hospital had a deficit of approx. Eighty-five million. krones. At the same time, the hospital has a major corridor patient problem. The waiting time for treatment with NSS is also significant. Will the Council of State ensure that, in its adaptation to the budget, the County Council does not exacerbate the situation of patients at the NSS and will the Council of State ensure that the problems of corridors in the NSS are removed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1487	Hospitals have seen a significant increase in activity since the introduction of the intervention finance mechanism in 1997. From now on, payments for input-driven financing have increased in the order of DKK 1.8 billion. This is a development that we can be satisfied with. However, the growth in treatment activity has been greater than both the state and county authorities have expected. Although the State pays a refund for the increased activity, it presses the county framework because the direct government reimbursement covers an estimated half of the costs. The hospitals and thus the total economy of counties are under pressure. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has now established close cooperation with the Municipalities’ Central Associations and representatives from the hospital sector to review the economic situation of hospitals and county municipalities. External health economic environments and the departments concerned have been involved in this work. In the light of this review, the Government will present its assessments and proposals in a separate case to the Grand Duchy in March. The objective is to contribute to the desired activity development in hospitals in the year; and to obtain a better budgetary decision-making base in terms of effort-driven funding to facilitate greater predictability of the financial framework conditions for hospital operations to contribute to greater consistency in the description of budgetary effects and actual relations between the State and local government sectors; On several occasions, most recently in the context of the examination of the proposal for a new specialised health law, the size of the population has determined that it is the county municipalities that are to ensure that the population has access to health services. This includes, inter alia: the county council shall make the necessary priorities in order to meet its needs for specialist health services. The municipality of Nordland states that a separate case will be submitted to the county in March on the economy of hospitals. Any budgetary adjustments will be made in mid-June. The politically responsible Health Council of the County Council informs me that savings will not be made until you know what will result from the central review that will be presented to the Stortinget. In addition, the County Council informs that measures have been implemented to reduce the size of Corridor Asians, including: increase of bed capacity and crew. According to the County Municipality, there have been no Corridor Asians at the NSS since April 1999, with the exception of the recent influenza epidemic. I assume, on my part, that any unsatisfactory conditions of the NSS in the case of Corridor Asians will be resolved in dialogue with the county council and the county board, if necessary with instructions from the Health Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1513	I thank you for your answer. It is reassuring to hear that work has been started to get a complete review of the offer, in relation to all county municipalities. With my knowledge of Northern Ireland and of the current government there, I'm afraid that ideology, right solutions, is given priority in front of patients. All the investments have already stopped, which of course means that the central hospital enters a vicious circle by the fact that old equipment provides inefficient operation. The central hospital also has the possibility to rent private services, such as: are established in the Bodø area, which will result in a cheaper offer for patients. The minister mentioned the county doctor, and I want to ask the minister if he will make sure that the county doctor, like the department's extended arm in Northern Ireland, follows the NSS extra well, so that patients do not get hurt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1520	The representative Svendsen is now holding an ideological and party political debate, which is probably better at home in Nordland County, where the representative Svendsen was a member until recently than in this Chamber. At least I cannot go into that debate as a Council of State. On the other hand, I would like to confirm on direct questions from the representative Svendsen that the county board in Nordland, like other county doctors, is doing their job, and part of that job is to ensure that there is proper operation at the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1527	Unit price financing, or input-driven financing, was also at the disposal of the Minister. It's now set to 50 pst. By increasing this proportion, a further pressure will be put on the central hospital in Northern Ireland, which, of course, as other hospitals can then treat more patients. Thus, NSS increases revenue opportunities. A pleasant side effect of this will, of course, also be the minimisation of waiting time and problems with corridor Asians. Will the Minister take the initiative to increase the unit price in relation to the revised national budget or in the 2001 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1534	The government has contributed to an increase in the proportion of hospital funding coming from direct settlement per year through two budgetary settlements here in this Chamber, including the Svendsen Party representative. patient management. I am convinced that it has contributed to the increase in activity that we are now seeing. However, I believe that there are clear limits to how far a person can go in percentages of unit prices or input-based funding, because the higher the rate, the greater the challenges will be faced in terms of budget and financial management at hospitals. I therefore believe that the time has come, approx. 1 month after the Storting adopted the budget for 2000, to keep these framework conditions stable, and then to return to the question of the full evaluation of the ISF system that is now being prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1544	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The children may become the vitamin poison’ is the title of a United Nations notice of 17 January 2000 on the warning from the Council of State on nutrition and physical activity against accepting the EU Children’s Food Directive. ‘The limit between the recommended intake of vitamin D and poisoning is relatively small’, the statement states. How do the Norwegian Government assess the Norwegian objections to the EU in the light of Tine’s launch of new light milk with vitamin D added?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1553	As the diet differs from one country to another, Norway believes that food enrichment should be decided at national level as part of each country’s nutrition policy. This is in line with recommendations from international bodies such as Codex Alimentarius. The addition of nutrients to prevent shortages in groups of the population has for a long time been a central tool in Norwegian food and nutrition policy. Norwegian health authorities believe that it is still important to maintain the possibility of regulating the addition of nutrients to foods intended for the Norwegian market for health reasons as part of our national health promotion work. In Norway, the health authorities of the Council for Nutrition and Physical Activity of the State are continuously assessing the need to enrich food based, inter alia, on: diet studies. They estimate that the Norwegian diet provides sufficient amounts of most nutrients. The most important exception is vitamin D. Lack of vitamin You can lead to racite, so-called English sick. In Norway, vitamin D deficiency is due, inter alia, to: little sunlight in the winter. Vitamin D deficiency has been particularly demonstrated in some elderly people and in groups of immigrants. There will always be a balance between preventing nutrient deficiency and avoiding a risk of health damage. The National Board of Nutrition and Physical Activity recommends that everyone take a teaspoon a day. In addition, vitamin D has been allowed for a long time in butter and margarine. In 1994, the Food Council of the then State pointed out that a further increase in vitamin D supply to the Norwegian population could be made simplest and best by vitaminising light milk and skimmed milk. Milk is suitable for increasing the intake of vitamin D, because it is one of our most common foods. Authorisation to add vitamin D to milk was granted by the Food Authority of the State on the advice of the Nutrition Council in 1998. As part of the ongoing assessment of Norwegian enrichment practices, the Nutrition Council set up in 1999 a working group to look at vitamin D in the diet, in particular in relation to the vitamin deficiency of immigrants. The Council of State for Nutrition and Physical Activity recommends the use of lean milk types, preferably skimmed milk. TINE Norwegian Dairy’s new light milk has been added 0.4 micrograms vitamin D per day. deciliters of milk. Also lactose-reduced light milk has been added vitamin D. There is no risk of vitamin D poisoning by drinking vitaminised light milk. The recommended daily intake of vitamin D is 10 micrograms for children under 3 years of age and for the elderly, and 5 micrograms for intermediate age groups. Calculations show that adults have to drink more than 10 litres of enriched milk daily before approaching the toxic limit or poisoning. Nor in a regular compound diet with different vitamin D sources will it be possible to approach the limit of toxicity in Norwegian enrichment practices. The Board of State for Nutrition and Physical Activity recommends that infants are either breast-feeding or receiving infant formulae until one year of age. Enriched milk is therefore unlikely to be a major component of children’s diet until after that time. The EU Food Directive regulates the composition and marketing of cereal-based products and other baby foods intended for infants and young children. Norwegian children have a rather high consumption of baby cream in international contexts. Together with the use of infant formulae and tran, some children may be able to reach the maximum daily intake of vitamin D for this age group in a possible implementation of the EU Children’s Food Directive, according to a study by the Council of State on nutrition and physical activity. The Child Food Directive provides for the addition of a number of nutrients, including: Vitamin D. According to the Directive, processed cream may contain from 2,3 to 6,8 micrograms of vitamin D per. Portion porridge, i.e. the permitted quantity in the Directive is of a completely different size than that of the permitted enrichment of milk. If the EU Children’s Food Directive is implemented in Norway, following the assessment of the Nutrition Council and Food Safety Authority, this may result in infants receiving a very high and for some health-related adverse intake of vitamin D by adding at the proposed maximum level. It is therefore the Norwegian competent authorities’ assessment that underpins both the authorisation for the enrichment of milk and the Norwegian position on the EU Babysitting Directive and that we have asked the EU Scientific Committee to reconsider this Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1572	The starting point of the Council of State takes the view that enrichment of food is a purely national matter may appear to be negligible, but the Council of State should also recognise that the EEA Agreement which makes Norway a part of the internal market, an agreement for which the Christian People's Party has otherwise voted, does not automatically provide for the acceptance of such a starting point on the part of each country. As a result, strong reasons should be given to support, from the Norwegian side, in the EU in order to be exempted from the provisions of the enrichment directives. It will then be important that there is no doubt about the motives behind the objections from the Norwegian side. There should be no doubt as to whether the protection and favouring of Norwegian-produced food can be a Norwegian motive. Does the Council of States see that this can now easily be an objection from the EU side? And is it the case that Norwegian professional environments are better than professional environments in Europe, which do not object to extra vitamin D?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1577	No, of course it is not that Norwegian professional environments are necessarily better than professional environments in Europe. That's not why we have a different policy in Norway. We have a different policy in Norway because reality here is different. In the case of baby foods, Norwegian children have a completely different composition of their diet and eat more industrially produced meat than children on the continent. And with regard to the more climatic conditions and the availability of sunlight in the winter months, Norway is also known to be different from countries further south of Europe. This is the starting point for me to believe that enrichment policy should be something that we have reasonable control over nationally. So the question of whether the decisions to which the representative Frost Sterri referred might raise concerns about the motives of the Norwegian authorities. In that case, there's no reason. I believe, through my first answer, that I have documented that there are indeed good professional reasons for the conclusions that our professional bodies have reached, and I do not think that others should be so doubtful about it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1584	I choose to listen to the suggestions that were in the last remark from the Council of State. Nor shall I touch any more on the starting point for the question, but hope that the Council of State can then have a good case against the European Union, because I believe we will in any case agree that to the extent that we do not want to join directives, we should have strong and good arguments against the Norwegian side. However, I am little surprised whether the Council of State is looking at this, with the selection of foods of different origins that have also found the way to the store shelves in Norway, that there may now be reason to review our traditional Norwegian consumer policy and place more emphasis on a thorough and comprehensible labelling of food products, so that consumers can make their choices, rather than that the authorities should continue to decide what is right and healthy food.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1591	I am pleased that we agree that it is important to have a strong and good case in relation to the EU; I also believe that we have, and that it is solidly professionally based and anchored in the more strange conditions, which must also form the basis for our assessments. It is not the case that food and nutrition policy should be based either on the free choice of consumers based on information and labelling or on a model policy in which the authorities decide what to eat. There's always been an interaction between these two factors, and it still has to be. I do not overlook the fact that it may be right to shift this balance between the activities of the authorities and the free choice of consumers at a time of greater information and information. But I always think there will be a need to have a nutrition policy, have authorities that evaluate this, and that govern the areas that it is right to govern.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1598	We will now go back to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1604	This question, from the representative of Grethe G. Fossum to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Environmental Protection on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1607	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research, as well as the Minister for the Environment, the following questions: ‘Free school pillows are provided according to certain criteria, such as the number of kilometres and, where appropriate, dangerous traffic conditions on the school road. In some municipalities in Hedmark, the population has experienced visits by wolves very close to house and property, and the fear of child safety in relation to the school road is real. Will the Council of State take the initiative to provide students with free schooling in the municipalities where the inhabitants are threatened by the nearby wolf?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1616	The training law § 7-1 gives students the right to clear sky by a particularly dangerous or difficult track. In addition to emphasising the state of the school, the climate and traffic conditions on the road, it is also relevant to focus on the relationship with the individual student. In other words, it is relevant to emphasise the subjective fear of wolves in the assessment of the right to shower by a particularly dangerous or difficult route of education. However, this subjective fear must be held up against the objective danger of a wolf attack. It would therefore be natural for the municipality to ask questions from an authority that is expert on such questions. It is the State Education Office in Hedmark that takes a final position on complaints about municipal decisions on the right to shower by particularly dangerous or difficult school roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1625	I am grateful for the Minister for the Environment's answer, which I thought was interesting because here one is adding to a two-part division of the question, the subjective fear of the objective danger. Then it is true that it is actually the Minister for the Environment who is the appropriate body to determine whether there is an objective risk of a wolf attack, and then my question is: Can an objective risk of a wolf attack be excluded in Norway? Does the Minister for the Environment have any researchers who would like to say that the wolf is totally harmless to school students in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1630	For a long time, the wolf on the nearest site has been eradicated in Norway, but we are now building up the population to the level on which we expect it to be viable. It also states that the detailed knowledge of the danger of confrontation between wolves and humans is not as good as it would have been if we had had more experience with wolves. At the same time, the wolf is a predator, it's part of Norwegian nature, and no one can guarantee that in any situation it could ever happen that wolf attacks people. At the same time, we know that this has not happened in a very long time, which of course is partly due to the fact that there have been few wolves in Norwegian nature. But there's reason to believe that other dangers on the school road, such as that. being hit is far more likely than being attacked by the wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1637	I thank you again for the answer. I notice that the Environment Minister says that she cannot guarantee that the wolf does not attack people, and that she again makes the claim that traffic is perhaps more dangerous. Well, that might be reason to believe right now, but now it's actually so that we've incorporated into the Education Act that you have to protect schoolchildren from traffic. Now it's trying to get some kind of core area for wolves in eastern Hedmark, and then the conflicts and confrontations between the population, and especially school students, will arise. My question is: does the Minister for the Environment take the chance that children may be attacked by wolves on the school road, or will she in the Government agree – as a consequence of the problem that she herself has brought us into, and that needs to be taken into account – to give children free school kissing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1648	As I said in my previous answer, we have, among other things, Because we have had very few wolves in Norway for a long time, too little knowledge of the real danger of wolf attacking people. And that's also why this is one of the areas where the government is now working especially, and where we think it's important to get more knowledge. The representative Fossum shoots a little bit when she says that the government is establishing a core area for the wolf. The government will come back to the question of zone in good time before the grazing season. But it is one important principle: when the big community has decided that we should have viable populations of predators in Norway, the big community must also be willing to participate and take responsibility for it, and not leave it entirely to each municipality. I believe that in that context it would be natural to consider whether the issue of school kissing should also be part of the responsibilities of the big society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1660	This question, from the representative of Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1663	I have asked the Minister for Energy the following questions: ‘According to the Technical Weekleaf on 18 November 1999, the cranes of Norway’s two largest petrochemical gas-based installations may be closed. After the conclusion of the agreement with Ekofisk in 2001, they now have difficulties in obtaining long-term supplies of Norwegian gas. This is contrary to what the Stortinget decided to do in the treatment of St.meld. [[1994-95]] No 44 Norway as a gas nation — use of natural gas in Norway. Will the Council of State facilitate companies to receive the gas they need in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1672	The petrochemical activity in the border region was established in the 1970s on the basis of wet gas supplies from the Ekofisk area, the so-called option agreements. Due to declining wet gas production from the Ecofisk area combined with increasing demand due to capacity expansion at the Bamble facilities, deliveries under these agreements have not been able to meet the full demand for wet gas in recent years. The decline was particularly high last year, and plants had to purchase large volumes of wet gas in the spot market. In the north-west European wet gas market, there has been a large surplus of propane and butane for many years. The agreements on wet gas deliveries from the Ecofisk area were renegotiated in 1997 and 1998. The buyer and the seller were then among others. agree that supplies of propane and butane will end in October of this year. However, delivery of ethane will continue until October 2007. Access to ethane gas is very important for the petrochemical activity in Bamble because the ethylene cracker at Raffnes, which is the core of the establishment, is designed to depend on a minimum proportion of ethane as food. In the European wet gas market, there is little supply of ethane, including, among others: to ensure delivery of ethane to Bamble is a new ethane separation plant under construction on Kårstø. This installation will produce from 2001 around 600 000 tonnes of ethane per year, one quarter of which has been sold on a long-term contract to the ethylene cracker at Rafnes. This is more ethane than today's cracker gets during the Ecofiscian agreements. In addition, Hydro's ammonia factory in Herøya will buy a quarter of the ethane from Kårstø, while the last half is sold to Borealis in Stenungsund. At the end of last year, two new wet gas scrubbing plants were completed by Hydro on Sture and by the West Process on Mongstad. From these wet gas plants, the petrochemical activity in Bamble will receive approx. 300000 tonnes per year with propane and butane. As I understand it, the long-term deliveries from the three new wet gas plants will meet today's raw material needs at the petrochemical plant in Bamble. With current capacity, the Bamble plants only consume about one tenth of total Norwegian wet gas production in the next years. Consequently, if the industry wants more wet gas to capacity extensions, there is room for this, but the conditions for such deliveries must be clarified by commercial negotiations between the seller and the purchaser.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1685	I thank you for your answer. Now it is the case that the companies here do not complain about the price, they are willing to take the price that may be in the market. The problem for businesses is that they do not get the long-term agreement they need to continue to operate after 2001. What is important to me is that the Norwegian authorities are involved in facilitating this, and that businesses can avoid going into an uncertain future. I expect the Council of State to confirm that the Department will help to get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1692	Let me first say that it is important that the representative here states that this is not a price question, but a need for long-termity. We believe that with the measures put in place and with the production plans currently in place, it will be possible to have room for capacity expansion. But a prerequisite for this, as I have already said, is that it has to be clarified through commercial negotiations between the seller and the buyer. But we can't see that there should be anything in the way to get room for capacity expansion, even in a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1697	I thank you again for the answer, which I thought was positive. It is often time-consuming to develop fields for land-based further development. There are many licensees, and it often takes a long time. How can these processes be influenced so that solutions are chosen to facilitate land-based activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1702	What is the main task of the authorities is to facilitate activities through good framework conditions, and then to ensure that the activities being established are of course carried out within the rules and laws that apply at all times. My opinion is that with the steps that have now been taken, and with the production volume that we will have in place in a short time, the authorities have already arranged for the business that Jan Johnsen asks about, and I think that with the room for expansion that lies in the volume that we are talking about here, there should be nothing in the way of planning long-term business as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1710	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The regulation plan for Lørenskog new centre has been brought into the Ministry of State of Oslo and Akershus, because it is considered to be contrary to the provision on temporary stoppages for purchasing centres outside central cities and agglomerations. The Ministry has had the matter for more than half a year without a decision being taken. Non-decisions have implications for, inter alia, the construction of hospitals and housing in the municipality. When can you expect the department to make a decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1719	The case has been brought before the Ministry of the Environment for final decision under the statutes of the Akershus Plan Test ‘temporary transfer of the Ministry’s powers to settle objections to municipal spatial planning matters under the Planning and Building Act’. The Authority is subsequently assigned to Akershus County, which confirmed the regulatory plan on 15 June 1999. Thus, the county council did not raise any objection from the county council. The County indicates that the planned extension of the shopping centres of 12400 m2 is contrary to the «Registration of 08.01.99 on temporary stoppages for shopping centres outside central cities and agglomerations». In the letter to Akershu County Council, the county writes, among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The County does not see that the proposed extension of the trade areas falls under any of the derogations provided for in the national policy provision on temporary stoppages for purchasing centres. It has been demonstrated, in the County State’s assessment, that the measure will have regional consequences by weakening the growth of competing centres and that a significant part of the growth in demand as a result of the expansion will come from customers living outside the municipality. Although the extension will have a number of positive aspects for Lørenskog Municipality, the County does not see that this in itself allows for exceptions to the national policy provision.’ An inspection of the case was carried out on 15 September 1999 with representatives of the county, the municipality, the county and interested parties. During the department's treatment, meetings were held with the municipality, the county council and the Ministry of Transport. The Olav Thon Group, which is interested in the Solheim/Skårer area, has also submitted views. The case is of principle and particular interest in relation to the national policy provision on purchasing centres. In addition, it is linked to the ‘sub-plan of strategies and guidelines for the development and use of land in Rome 1999-2000’, which is also being treated in the ministry. The special nature of the matter and extensive material have resulted in considerable and time-consuming work. I am aware that there is considerable potential in the plan to set up a multi-functional municipality centre for Lørenskog of high standards, and in my decision I will seek to take account of this objective. The rapporteur has asked for a meeting with me. This will be held soon and the decision will be taken one–two weeks after the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1739	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I must say I had expected a more concrete and positive response now. The Council of State mentions a meeting with the rapporteur. There is a need to stress that the rapporteur has taken this initiative and not the Council of State. The matter is in principle, says the Council of State, in relation to the provision on purchasing centres. However, the intention of temporary stoppages for purchasing centres could not be that, for example: a municipality such as Lørenskog, with 30,000 inhabitants, would be denied a multi-functional, urban, dense municipal centre based on the highest level of education and aesthetic principles? If the Minister for the Environment ignores the municipal and county council decisions and supports his regional officials, I must say that the credibility of the Government in local government is not a believer. I could imagine getting the Council's comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1750	The representative asks for a more concrete and positive answer now. To that I have to repeat that it is not common to deal with the proceedings from the Storting Chair, and of course I cannot do that today either. As I said, I will shortly have a meeting with the rapporteur. The rapporteur has taken the initiative this time, but this is a fine addition to the range of meetings we have with rapporteurs on objections – and we are in a good routine. Then, as I said in my first answer, we will make a decision within one – two weeks of such a meeting. On the issue of local autonomy, there was an inter-pelling debate on this issue in the Stortinget once in 1999. Then the government could provide a very good statistic, which showed that the number of cases where a government has overrun local self-government has fallen below this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1759	I am fully aware that there is no way of proceeding from the Parliamentary Chair – it is commendable that the Council of State underlines this. But the state councils have had more than enough time. It's been a week and a half since she got the question from me. The case has been in the department for more than six months. I also sent a letter to the Council of State on 18 October on these questions, so the Council of State has had more than enough opportunity to prepare a concrete answer. And I have a feeling that the matter is now being put on the agenda here in Stortingen, has made it possible for us now to hope for a decision to be taken. But I also want to ask if it is such that it is the case handler capacity in the department that is bad. Or what is the real reason why it takes so long to get answers to such an application?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1768	As I said in my first answer, this is a complex and complex matter, not least one that could have a major impact on the guidelines for the stoppage of purchasing centres. Once this case has taken some time, it is partly because it is of great principleal importance, but also because we have tried to run an inclusive process here. We have had an inspection, and we have had meetings with all the stakeholders, which we are now concluding with a meeting with the rapporteur in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1778	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘The Ministry of the Environment has authorised the demobilisation and replacement of an additional oil lensen towing vessel on the Norne ship and similar installations by a small motor boat of 24 ft. The boat has an approx. 160 hp engine and on board the supply ship together with the oil lance. The supply ship has 12,000 hp. In the event of an accident, the bilge shall be set and towed and manoeuvrable, often in bad weather, by the supply ship and a boat of approx. 160 hp. Does the Council of State consider this to be an equivalent towing vessel and that it is properly prepared?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1787	The requirement for oil protection in the Norne field is, among other things, adequate bilge capacity shall be provided so that it is possible to call in any oil flake and then bring it up with an oil pick-up. This implies a requirement for two vessels, which are in practice solved by a major emergency vessel, where a small towing vessel is also stored on board, which can be launched if necessary. The towing vessel has been improved compared to the previous one, and tests have been carried out to show that this solution is operational under the conditions in which it can be expected to take up oil from the sea, including: say at a wave height of up to four to five metres and a wind speed of 15 to 20 m/sec. Increased towing capacity alone will not improve the ability to pick up oil if the weather situation indicates that it is not possible to implement an effective oil protection operation because, for example, the oil is used. blend in the water masses and the bilges cannot effectively collect the oil. Therefore, the SFT considers that two independent vessels will not provide an adequate increase in the real possibilities for the successful uptake of oil, also in relation to the costs that such a requirement would entail. The emergency vessel stationed at the production site shall only perform an initial operation until heavier equipment is in place and operators are obliged, through their contingency plans, to dispose of such equipment within the given response times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1796	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not the answer to what I asked for – far from it. When I asked the question, it was because it is obvious that considering a small boat with a very small engine as a fully-fledged vessel compared to a large dish of 12,000 hp is almost incredible. The boat they had before the new so-called improved version – the improvement consists of the installation of a small wheelhouse on the front of the boat – sank when it was to be tested. With all due respect for the Council of State, for the Department and for the SFT – I strongly doubt whether the boat that is now to replace all towing vessels has been tested in four to five metres high waves. My additional question is: has the vessel been tested at a wave height of four to five metres and at the wind power to which it is referred?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1803	The environmental protection authorities and the professional authorities have done so to assess which measures will be sufficient to enable a possible oil flake to be called up and then brought up. So the job to be done by towing vessels is to put out bilges and surround the oil surface, while the actual recording must be done by having a standby that can be in place after a short period of time, as the operator is required to do. The professional evaluation of what is sufficient capacity is done by the professional authorities, who believe that the solution we have chosen here is good enough, that is. the boat shall be able to withstand both a wave height of four to five metres and wind speeds of 15 to 20 m/s.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1810	I thank you again for an answer that was far from answering the question I asked. I asked the question – and I would like to repeat it: has the boat been tested in four or five meters high waves? I guess the problem is that the council doesn't know. That's why I don't get an answer, and the doubt is well-provoked. The boat has probably not been tested, because then it had probably sunk, it too, as the previous one did. It is clear from the two answers I have received, which did not answer any of the questions, that it is the economy that matters here – it is the economy that decides whether to have a good enough oil protection solution or not. It is not that careful if you are able to prevent emissions, but it does not cost too much money. It's completely saturated by the fact that it's the economy it's about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1817	Once the professional authorities have found that the solution chosen here is sufficient, I assume that both improvements and new tests have been carried out. The representative says it's just the economy that's playing. That's not right. But I think we have to admit that taking up oil after a discharge is actually not possible with today's tools if there are more than 4-5 meters high waves and a wind speed of more than 20 m/s. In this way you would not solve a specific problem by having others and more boats on site. The most important thing to do is to work all the time in a way that prevents emissions from occurring. First, if emissions occur under conditions that are harder than those specified here, you will have a problem regardless of how many tugboats you have in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1826	That being the case, it is no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-26.ana.ud1794e1835	There is no record.
