ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e64	The following alternates have taken their seat: For Akershus County: Åge Tovan For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For Telemark County: Jens Arnfinn Brödsjømoen For South-Trundellag County: No Balstad and Michael Momyr
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e85	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the remaining meetings of the Stortinge this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e90	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e95	Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected for the current week’s meetings. At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that case No. Case No. 1 and Case No. 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e118	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 15 minutes each, Right 10 minutes, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with a reply after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e129	Knowledge and experience will be even more so than at present the individual’s most important competitive model in the labour market. For the Labour Party, justice through equal rights to education is a red thread in education policy. When referring to this budget, it is claimed that the lines between the right and left have been bigger. I agree – the right side wants private and individual solutions, and the left side wants community and public schools. The knowledge society imposes other requirements of competence than before. Therefore, the whole education sector needs to be strengthened. We've got a new social class distinction. Norway has been in search of something, but many have been poor. The main reason for the new poverty is that so many people are out of work. 10 pst. of the working-age population, there is now a disembarkation. In this context, continuing training is an important tool for helping those who can and will return to work. The Labour Party has an educational policy for all. Everyone should be allowed to participate in the development of knowledge, and there is a commitment to a strong democracy. The lack of our children must be taken care of. We want to prevent unification, we want to offer a school for everyone, without regard for religious and social backgrounds. It's when children go together in school, that we develop fellowship and diversity. The contents of the school are important. We have to listen to the students, and we still have to do the whole school day. The Skeleton Leisure Scheme is very important for a day of full schooling. The system has been heavily developed in recent years. Almost half of the students in class 1-4 are in the school leisure scheme. But this is still a family reform that we have to fight for, both in terms of supply and not least in terms of price, especially when we see that the Progress Party wants to remove the whole system, and that the Right wants to do a rough cut in the system. The ball can take advantage of the freedom it has to use alternative pedagogics and new teaching methods. The teaching needs to be adapted to the individual student. An action in this direction is a project that we are launching, where we monitor the reading skills of the 2nd and 7th grade students, so that teachers can provide the students with training that is appropriate to their individual needs. A while ago we read that an investigation that had been carried out showed that 51 pst. by the basic school teachers, they wanted pure classes of goodies and girls. Once again we see that it is necessary to fight against the division of classes by gender, ethnic background or abilities. Such a sorting of elephants is to stop evolution and go back many years in time. When it comes to homework, there has always been a debated topic among those who are concerned with the quality of school. In Oslo, a development project is now being carried out at four schools, where the scheme is called ‘non-lexical school’. Instead of homework, the schools have introduced work plans at different levels that students can choose from and are developed by their teachers. And all the feedback shows that both teachers and elephants are very happy. The grades have been better, the teachers act as instructors, and the students thought it was more fun to work. These things are important to further develop. Not least we now see that traditional catheter-driven teaching is getting old-fashioned. The quality also depends on skilled and committed teachers. On the basis of the fact that only one of 14 teachers works until they reach retirement age, and that disability pensioners amounted to 57 pst. by all teachers who left last year, the new working time contract is a major step in the right direction. It's gonna give you a lot of money, but it's gonna give you a lot of money. better opportunities for teachers to organise their teaching better. Many also received a paylift, up to NOK 30,000 a year. The primary school is important, the secondary school is important, higher education is important. Research has been a debated topic in Stortinget in the last year, and it is clear that research is essential to be competent when it comes to knowledge that we are going to compete with in the future. That is why I am very pleased that we have also been able to invest as much in research as we have been able to do in this budget. And this escalation plan, which must be at least OECD level within five years, it is important that the entire Stortinget now has agreed, including the centre party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e163	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e166	The Working Party is in agreement with the Committee to note that up to one in five adults in Norway have severe difficulties in reading and writing, so many problems that they are hampered both socially and in the workplace. We all agree that this can lead to major problems of passivity and that there is a loss of interest in active social participation. We are all happy that the work on reading and writing needs to be a central part of the work on the reform of competence. Logically, then, we should give economic priority to this work. Research in this area is budgeted under heading. 258. Within this area, the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties propose to reduce entry 21 by 5 million. kr, although the Labour Party government considered that the need for these 5 million. kr was present. If you want to take the problem of reading and writing problems seriously, I cannot understand the logic of this, that you can accept such a significant cut as it does not seem to be the basis for the feedback you get from those who work with these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e175	Not only does the Labour Party end up with this formulation, we've actually been very busy with this for many years. It's a perfectly correct description that there are a lot of people who have problems with reading and writing, and we have to take that seriously. And actually, the government has done, one has started working on this to systematize what it looks like, and what we can put in action. So it's going to be cut by 5 million. kr, and we believe that we are fully justified by a holistic economic policy. But it should not affect the job you are supposed to do for those who have the greatest difficulty in reading and writing. But I have to say that when you look at it together in the budget of the Progress Party, who is going to suffer, and who is going to have it most difficult, we see that if one, for example, is going to suffer. is ill, if a become a long-term health report, then one with the budget of the Progress Party will thus have to reduce the payment in a whole year to NOK 50000. I'm going to be able to defend every single item that the government put forward in the budget, but we're forced to have a multiple in the Stortinget, and then we've been some with the center party about a still good budget. And we're going to be able to take care of the weakest, as I've shown, even when it's for those who are sick, those who are long-term ill, and those who are unemployed. And we're not just going to say that we're taking this seriously, but we're also going to do something for those who have great read and write problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e184	Our new committee leader should be commended for the way in which she has managed the budget work in the committee, she has a lukewarm and constructive management that produces results. However, the political content and the political configurations emerged during the year's budgetary discussions in the Committee. The conciliation in the financial situation allowed all the framework and also gave strong leadership. What amazes me, however, is a refusal to take political initiatives in major efforts. That seems to be the main reason why there is no support for the proposal for a separate case of the Church’s baptismal training during 2001. A public body submitted proposals for principles for the baptismal training of the Church in the autumn. If we're to keep the church in the future, it needs a good baptismal training to provide children and young people with faith training. This is the background to the majority’s proposal on baptismal training. Then I was amazed when in our country on December 8th I read the following quote from Ranveig Frøiland: "Over the entire budget, we have had a principle that we do not ask the government for anything in the Committees' positions. Since we're in government, we have other ways to do it." What I then wonder is: What did the representative of Frøiland, the head of the church committee, say to the Council of State, Gist of this? Does the representative of Frøiland wish the Stortinget to have a case of baptism training submitted during 2001, or is this just a way to avoid making a decision or a signal that a person does not wish to deal with this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e198	First of all, thank you for the rose, it's always nice to bring with you – it'll be enough of other things in a year. I would also like to commend you, because I think we have had good cooperation in the Committee throughout the budgetary process. There must be no doubt that the Labour Party is occupied by the Church. 35 new performances are thus proposed by this government. It's been a long time since it's been done, not to say it's never been done before. Of course, when it comes to baptismal training, we are for training in this area. We have had a discussion here at the end when it applies to the budget, where the centre suggests that one should have a statutory right to baptism training. We know there's a NOU coming to the department, and I expect all the NOUs to be followed up from the government's side. I do not need to tell our own government that it will bring this as a matter to Stortinget. But the government must have time to go through this. And, as Arne Lyngstad knows just as well as I do, it's the way that the Church's organs are also going to handle it before there might be a case for the Storting, and this process is taking the Government off. We will deal with the matter of baptismal training when it comes here. When it comes to what the individual is entitled to have, we will be involved and discuss it when this comes back as a matter. There must be no doubt about it, and I think it's a little sad that someone is trying to add other meanings to something that we haven't been on, than what we ourselves have. Because we're busy with baptismal training, and we're concerned that the Church's body is going to handle this, and then we're going to get a case for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e207	The chairperson of the Committee stressed that the School Policy of the Workers Party wants to counteract uniformity. It is in itself an honorable objective, provided that one respects the fact that people may have different views of what equalization is, and provided that one respects the fundamental freedom of choice placed by the Declaration of Human Rights, not by Parliament, but by the parents. There are no data to suggest that parents who choose alternative options, whether for life’s sake or because they want other pedagogical approaches, are socially distinct by being particularly wealthy. My guess is that if you had statistics on it, it would rather show the opposite, that these are parents who don't belong to the most prosperous part of the population. It is therefore surprising that the Workers' Party constantly wants to limit and put obstacles in place to allow these parents to make use of their freedom of choice. The chair of the committee expressed the satisfaction that a unanimous committee has asked for a stepping-up plan for the research appropriations. Yes, of course, it's joyous. Even more happily, it would have been if the government had done the lesson the last time, when the exact same thing was adopted, namely in view of the revised national budget in the current year. It's remarkable that the Storting has to repeat a decree to the Government, as you do this time. Even more remarkable is the fact that the draft budget proposed by the Government would, at best, have led to the status quo in terms of the objective. But I agree with the committee leader, it is gratifying that the imposed now has been repeated once again, and then we are hoped that the lesson will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e216	Of course, the Labour Party respects the freedom of choice for parents. I don't understand why one must repeat it all the time. You can see what's done: there's no private school, there's actually more approval after the Workers' Party took over. But the most important thing for the Workers' Party is to have a good public school. That's the most important thing I think, because by far most of the kids go to public school. Then we have to have a good public school, and then it's not enough just to talk about the private schools. It's the public schools we're trying to focus on, because, as I said, that's where most of the people have their supply. We don't put obstacles in the way, but I want to say that all the private schools should not only act, but also have learning material in relation to Norwegian law. This is a part of what we've been discussing lately, so there's no doubt about it either. When it comes to research, we don't actually have a bad conscience. Right knows that the Labour Party was in the right team to create the fund and add $3 billion on it. In the revised budget this year, the Government will add 1 billion dollars. The proposal for a budget presented by the Labour Party had a raise of $3 billion, and after the management of the Stortinget, we got an additional DKK 0.5 billion on the fund – that's more than a double in a year – and then right here is able to present it as if we haven't prioritised research. Of course, from the Workers' Party's side, we still take the research seriously, and we have a plan for how to step it up. However, the representative, Mr Wohnning, knows just as well as I do that under the Financial Regulation, we cannot allow more than one year at a time. There is a great deal of respect for the budget presented by the Government, and it is a bit to boast of the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e227	I will also give tribute to the committee leader for the good and constructive way in which she leads the committee. The centre party is satisfied with the budgetary agreement, where the centre parties were put through so that the educational area became the budget winner this year. I am almost tempted to say that the Council of State, Gishe, did not attend the budgetary conference in the Government, managed the Workers' Party and the Centre together in the Stortinget. Having said that, I must add that the Central Party is not as satisfied with all the elements of the budget agreement. I am thinking in particular of the lending scheme for school books in high school, where our party has book and equipment scholarships as a primary point of reference, as most student organisations want. I notice that the Workers' Party in the financial position says the following: ‘These members refer to the continuation of the lending scheme in secondary school. The lending scheme also contributes to the promotion of educational innovation and quality development at school, where students and teachers cooperate.’ This is absolutely not in line with the experience of schools I know. On the contrary, they have carried out much more extra work. I also refer to Document No. 8:4 for 1997-98, which concerned the lending system, and for which I was, by the way, the rapporteur-in-chief. There I stressed, among other things: The value of the textbook itself, and I also stressed the importance of the use of the book as a tool for learning, where it is used in many disciplines differently from before, among others. as a reference and work book where students make notes and markers in the book. This would be difficult in lending, as such personal notes would significantly reduce the level of consumption and make the quality of those to take over the books much worse. From this I would like to ask the representative of Frøiland the following question: Does she agree with me in the description I have given above? Or does she, like the Workers' Party's financial fraction, think that the lending system as such promotes educational innovation and quality development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e244	In school policy, the centre and the Labour Party are very close to each other, and it has also shown itself in this budgetary process. Like Tingelstad's representative, I'm happy about that. When it comes to textbooks, it's probably not exactly what Marit Tingelstad said, that the student organisations don't want a loan scheme. We've had student organisations in the committee that have said that it's actually a better arrangement than getting an expanded scholarship, given that these are society's own schoolbooks, which can go on to more elephants when someone's done with them. So we thought that the arrangement of borrowing school books and the addition to it is a very good arrangement. When we're going to define textbooks, we know there's a lot of things. We've also said that the idea is not just to go to books, but to teach. Electronic learning material is very important in that context. Obviously, one here has to go on with the system and see how one can develop it into not just books, but learning material in a broad sense. It's also true that some schools with elephants have done a lot with these money to think in the direction that Marit Tingelstad said. They've developed CD-ROMs, and they've developed a lot of other electronic things to use the money that's been set off, not just for school books, but also for other teaching materials for the students. I think it's a very good arrangement we've got, and I'm glad that the Center Party in that area didn't get multiple numbers for a redeployment of funds to school books, but that the majority went in for our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e253	The chairperson of the Committee began by stressing that this budget shows that the difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy has become clearer. Now there's a lot of questions going on. First, it raises questions about who it is that belongs to the right-hand side, and who it is that belongs to the left-hand side. In addition, questions arise as to whether the budgetary agreement shows that the lines between the right-hand side and the left-hand side have become clearer. If we define SV as belonging to the left-hand side, I agree that this budget clearly shows that the difference between the left-hand side and the right-hand side has become clearer. If we include the Working Party in the left-hand side, it'll be a little bit harder. This will be particularly difficult after the budgetary conciliation. One of the hallmarks where the difference between the right-hand and the left-hand sides has been evident is that of private schools — the willingness to support, the willingness to rebuild private schools. In the budget agreement, there has been a strong and clear marking of private primary and secondary schools and private colleges. For example, 10 pst has been added to the budget agreement. growth to private higher education institutions. It emphasises that there are certain areas in which a person should give priority and bet. At the same time, in the budget agreement, there is a cut in the earmarked appropriations for primary and secondary schools. If we see primary and secondary schools together, it's in the budget agreement a cut from what was in the original government proposal. Then my question to the Labour Party, which has now changed its position in relation to the priorities they had in the opposition: is it the priority of private schools in this budgetary agreement, a way to show that the difference between the right and the left has become clearer?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e262	The government budget proposal submitted in the fall, with a strengthening of the municipalities of $5 billion, means that one can spend more money in the municipalities of the public school. The most important thing is that municipalities can have freedom to spend more money on education, school, if that's what they want. So the government's priority in terms of investing in public schooling is very clear. The Labour Party, together with SV, belongs to those who want to defend the public school and do what we can within the budgetary framework to prioritize that work. So I also have to say that of 329 million. kr in this budget agreement, which has benefited our committee in addition, goes 220 million. kr directly to the university. Most of what we've gotten to our committee goes to the public and to strengthen the community idea. When it's for private schools, I've said we have it, and we're going to have it. However, it is not the case that the Labour Party prioritises it. But in negotiations with the centre to get multiples for the well-being of the budget, which goes on more to the community, more to fair distribution, we've been on an increase to private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e271	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e274	The representative of Frøiland chose to interfere with the reduction of the sick pay scheme by the Progress Party instead of providing a comprehensive answer to the question from the representative Knudsen on reading and writing difficulties. In the financial debate, I asked the Council of State a question about how he would address the problem of a lack of quality anchoring of the school's content and the student's benefits and equal right to choose a qualitatively good training regardless of the parent's economy. It was with some frustration that I received his answer from the Storting's pulpit, which was very little precise and, in fact, directly untrue. The Progress Party presented an alternative budget with a significant focus on education and research. The lot also showed how to use the resources. In total, the Progress Party wants to spend 29 238 503 200 on education and research. How the Council of State can make this amount a reduction in relation to the Government's budget of DKK 1 billion is more than odd. But I'm not going to spend any more time on the Council's lack of numerical skills. When so much is said about the importance of ICT investment in training, we in the Progress Party fully agree with this. What surprises us, however, is that this important area of activity is being treated in a non-chalant way. If a majority really wanted to use resources, it would have been natural to make planned purchases at large — really large. Then an amount of NOK 1 billion would have been relevant to use on a contract placed directly with the manufacturer. The Progress Party sees the need for structural and organisational changes in the education sector — from the age of 6 to the training of researchers. It's not new that we want a qualitatively better and more efficient education than what we have today. The promotion party wants individual training, where learning is geared towards the individual child’s abilities and opportunities. Training shall be paid by the public and legal certainty of users in relation to the qualitative objectives of the offers shall be guaranteed by the State. The Progress Party sees no need for municipalities, counties and states to have an approximate monopoly on education. It is a human right to allow citizens of any society to choose education. This applies to parents of minors and adults on their own behalf. Parents' rights are particularly important when we recognize that parents are the ones who know their own children and their opportunities best. Furthermore, we know from research in a number of countries that a variety of educational provision is driving the quality up, rather than the more stereotyped of course that easily takes place, where the monopoly on knowledge formation is dominated by a political grouping. Millions are spent on research, including: on fish stocks off the coast and in the Barents Sea. Furthermore, millions are used for the operation of lookout ships and watchkeeping. All of this is a good purpose that no one can disagree with or try to cut down on. In this perspective, there seems to be a collective incompetence within the school system in ensuring the right of children to be taught both knowledge and social competence in relation to future labour and social responsibility. The idea of collective incompetence comes when the media shows that teachers are recommended to take courses in self-defence by trusted representatives of the Teacher Team. I have to ask what attitudes govern those who are knowingly employed to be educators and educators of our children, while not admitting that parents have both rights and competence in relation to their own children. The Progress Party will review future teacher training and ensure quality. Everyone seems to agree on this. But very little happens. When there is a willingness to take research seriously, for example: a study from Møreforsking on the basis of more than 200 schools, showing that 60 pst. of the asked teachers thought that it was the parents' responsibility to raise the children alone, to gain much greater weight. The same parents experience that the Teachers’ Team claims by its leader that parents are incompetent in assessing the school’s content and quality. This is not entirely related. In this case, I feel that the Advance Party takes care of the parents and thus the children in a fully-fledged way. We want parents into school as equivalent participants and an unused resource. We want parents to have the responsibility for their children that they have under law. This grip will be one of several necessary steps for increased understanding of quality based on calm, order and discipline, which children need in order to have a safe growth and a good learning environment. The Progress Party cannot support proposals which consequently mean that public employees replace mother and father for the most part. We realize the painful truth that crystallizes itself in the form of an ever-declining of the general level of training, which in turn yields poorer skills. This is seen in the form of a pre-qualifying course in higher education institutions throughout the country, and not least in the fact that the professional competence of the students applying for craftsmanship is not satisfactory. Old masters even claim that there is a long way between young people with professional letters who can work independently without further delay. There is nothing to help the Government narrow down the individual’s ability to take VK I courses in ICT. Furthermore, the party of progress has taken inwards that school buildings need to be cared for in a much better way than today. We have therefore found within the framework of the budgetary agreement to provide an incentive for municipalities to take responsibility for the necessary appropriations for the maintenance and upgrading of school buildings. The Progress Party will not shift this important local political responsibility, but will recognise that the majority around the municipalities operate better in a vegetarian environment. In relation to the majority of the Storting budget agreement, the Progress Party in Higher Education and Research has nothing to be ashamed of. On the contrary, we also take responsibility for the necessary adjustments in special colleges, which are imperative, and recognize responsibility instead of further delegating. It is worrying from a purely socio-economic point of view that so few students carry out the studies at a normal time. In order to improve the possibilities for full-time students, the overall grant share of the Advance Party budget is increased by 1 pst. This gives a cost of approx. Eighty million. kr. At the same time, it's set at 50 million. kr to a ‘turbo grant’ to stimulate increased flow and faster study progress. You had this in the past, but you obviously found it reasonable to go away from it. Let's do it again. Furthermore, the Progress Party will improve the possibilities for students to assess education provision globally on a completely free basis. We live in a much smaller world than what we did 20-30 years ago. To get this done, we've increased the fee tips, so there's real possibilities. In the case of private higher education, this must also be capable of being built up and of being economically sound. That is why we also introduce a fee grant that is intended to cover – in whole or in part – tuition fees for private study places domestically. It is regrettable that it has not been possible to have a majority in favour of these proposals, which would give each student a freedom of choice and a room for action to evaluate for themselves what to study and what quality it should be in the offer given. In addition, I will be allowed to say that proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Left Party, will not be taken up, because this question was addressed last week and then voted down. I would then like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has made, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e316	Ursula Evje has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e321	The school policy of the Progress Party is made clear in the general remarks. It is in my view that the debate on the Progress Party should be held, because it is the total conversion and fury – from primary to higher education – that takes place in the comments. It is not possible to comment on too much of this in a reply, but there is a proposal from the Progress Party to introduce discipline, punishment, detention and expulsion in primary school, without mentioning any arguments to promote the proposal in my view in the general remarks. So I allow myself to ask the representative Evje: are these proposals based on professional expertise? Or is it its own experience and practice in the Advance Party in relation to how to keep calm and order, which is now going to be in the Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e326	Now, obviously, the representative Kristiansen and I have different experience in the Progress Party, and he behaves in such a way that one would think that his was significantly better than mine – but we should not discuss that. In terms of school discipline, we also had it up a year ago, and I think that in my post I made it quite clear that in order for children to have the best possible environment for growth and learning, there is a need for security, standards and clear limits on what individual children can afford in relation to their age and development. There, for many, many years, the school has been seriously neglected. The law provides clear rules on how the school can enforce this, gives clear opportunities to take action, and then it comes in the remarkable situation that the college itself does not want to use these possibilities provided by the law, but instead goes in and learns self-defense by going on the course, because they are attacked by young children. There's something fundamentally wrong here, and I think it's creepy that the Workers' Party is neither capable nor able to see that the policies they're running are affecting children – homeless, hard and evil – and are contributing to, and increasing, many of the problems we're having in youth environments today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e333	There have been several attempts – both today and in the past – to put the Progress Party and the Right in the same position in education policy. It's true that there are things and directions we're some about, but there are also very big differences. One of the areas where this is most evident in the setting we are dealing with today, and where the representative Evje was not in, is the view of the municipal music and cultural spheres. On the right, these offers are very valuable to the individual and to the whole of our cultural life, and we think this is a ubiquitous way of making culture accessible to a lot of people. To provide an offer that everyone can afford, Right has asked for the hourly rates to be evaluated. It's not been done since 1991. And the hourly rates of support are now very low. The step-by-step part goes the whole other way. The Progress Party claims that this is an offer that is not “estimated for all children, but only for a smaller group of particularly interested people”. And so they cut the whole plot. Now one can first assess whether this is a smaller group. I would like to remind you that today there are 70 000 elephants in the base ball that use this supply. Cannot see the progress party that is currently proposing to make this an even smaller one? Is it not desirable that even those who have a little bad advice should have a chance to develop what they are good at, for example. in the field of music? In the opinion of the Progress Party, should this be an even fewer offer, which would be the result if the View of the Progress Party won?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e344	‘Sets in booth’, said the representative Løvik. Now I don't know where the Right seats its representatives, but the Progress Party usually doesn't have them in the forehead. But it is now a matter of its own. As far as the municipal music and cultural schools are concerned, it is absolutely right that we do not want to give earmarked grants to them. There are grants to enable municipalities to establish them, and there are grants to increase the rate of establishment. We know in the Progress Party that there is a need for economics in the municipalities, and we also know through extensive experience that at the moment that all municipalities or several municipalities together have established these schools, the earmarked grants will be transferred, today for 70,000 children instead of 550 000, into the framework grant, and we will demand that the municipalities have a full offer for everyone who wants it. This we believe is a rather creepy way of getting this done. We are of the opinion that culture is important for children, and as early as possible, but it is also an essential part of parents' responsibility. In this country we have had a corps activity for many years, which has never been essentially borne by the public economy, but by nine-time responsibility of parents in all fields. But it has also been that many parents with very musical children have not got them into the school corps, because they have neither had the economy nor the time to do all the volunteer work that needs to be done. At the moment you submit an offer that can cover and give an offer to all children about a minimum competence – all the 550 000 children – then the Progress Party will take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e353	It's exciting to follow the Progress Party's commitment to individuals in this country. The context between words and actions is not always as clear. Ursula Evje has shown that again today. The centre party believes that there is good reason to ask if the Progress Party in general does not take over the relationship between its local authorities and the relationship to a varied school structure and an organized training for the individual. The party of progress reduces the framework of the municipalities. I mean, budget-inner. S. No It says 5 reads that the Progress Party will reduce the localization, regionalization and the North Norway bill. They'll take $800 million in a year. kr from the 210 municipalities that lost due to the Rattsø conversion. In today's setting, the Progress Party suggests, among other things, to reduce by 200 million the amount of school leisure time allocated to the school. SEK, in favour of language minorities with 210 million. kr and the propensity for the 83-million-dollar music balls. kr. Then, as an alternative, the Progress Party will introduce unit-price financing – an amount that follows each student. Yes, it must indicate that they reject the relation to a school structure that is in the pact with our geography, it must indicate that they reject the organisation of the training that involves different amounts for each student, and it must indicate that they reject a municipal commitment to a stimulating and inclusive growth and leisure environment – the latter is something that very many parents in this country are asking for these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e363	The relationship between word and action is not always as clear, said the representative of the Centre Party. That's absolutely right. There is a big gap between words and action in all the parties in this room, which I have unfortunately experienced when I have traveled around District Norway and been attacked by worried parents, because the Centre Party and the Workers' Party and others have joined forces and formed a majority to lay down the county schools in the countryside, build large new, central schools and transport the children by bus, boat or other random clouds along raspy roads, stormy areas, etc. Yeah, that's right, there's a huge difference between what you say and what you're really doing. When the Progress Party cuts into the school leisure scheme, it has nothing to do with this not being an excellent measure, but it is an action that can be run on the basis of parents’ needs, parents’ needs and self-financing. That was the admission to the school leisure system when it came into order after the free-dominant trials in Norway. The total grant for the school leave scheme to all children in the age groups is, of course, no more than about half. NOK 166 per year. month from the State. If there's a sum that's so extremely large that families are going to go bankrupt, we'd like to have evidence of that, and then we're going to look at the matter again. In terms of price and school structure, it is precisely the unit price that guarantees that each child receives a school in his community, because it will be possible to maintain a school with less than 20 students at school. I think from such an assessment that the representative from the Central Party, as I believe to be a very good lady, should think these thoughts through again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e372	I agree with Rune Kristiansen that it is in the general notes the Progress Party reveals its view of education and its view of learning and competence. When you read these comments, you wonder if you're going to take it seriously, but it's Norway's second largest party, so you have to take some of this seriously. There are two proposals that reveal the view of knowledge and the view of learning. It is the proposal that we should use rehab, punishment, if not exactly bank, so almost bank, and the proposal that we should reintroduce grades also at primary school. That's where the Progress Party shows what kind of view they have on education, and what kind of view they have on learning. This is a vision that has been left for the longest time in Norwegian school – and thank you for that. I guess most people don't think you're learning through threats and banking, and that that's how you create good learning environments. We know that in Norwegian school today, learning environments are organized in a completely different way from what this vision reveals. Ursula Evje also uses terms like adding knowledge, adding social skills, i.e., someone from outside is going to add something. However, learning is done by involving children and young people and participating in learning processes. My question to Ursula Evje and the Progress Party is: Does the Progress Party and Ursula Evje believe that operating with threats, different kinds of threats, ranging from grades to re-sessions, is a way to create a good learning environment and a good situation for our children?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e381	It is more than tempting to ask what glasses the representative of Reikvam was wearing today. He had not guaranteed the glasses that have the small device behind the rod that makes you hear especially well. Just this line that went on restitution, punishment etc., I responded in my reply to the representative Rune Kristiansen. In the case of Rikvam's claims about bank threats, I do not understand where he got it from. When he then turns himself into questioning children's ability to develop in different environments, I say that the prerequisite for children to develop well is that they have given standards to function according to, given limitations to what they can allow, and what they can't allow themselves. It is precisely in this that a teacher at a school, whether he is called a teacher or a trainer or an instructor or what one might have, should have a responsibility as an adult. He will teach the individual the knowledge he possesses as an adult in relation to dealing with the world around him, in relation to the fact that children are not born with social competence. It has to be learned along the way. I have no particular desire to use the old Indian methods when it came to e.g. to teach children to be afraid of the fire. You let them go into the fire and burn themselves ugly, and then they never did it again. I think it must be more sensible for adults in school to behave as adults, to be adults, to have their own competence and safety and to be able to transfer this knowledge to the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e388	I have as my starting point that the representative Evje and I have it in common that in order to be citizens of a society one must also be able to have education in the meaning of knowledge enough to challenge the specialists to speak to you normally when they otherwise want to speak in specialist languages. From the left's point of view, respect for the values that lie in culture is also part of the creation. It's part of it that gives us the basis of reflection and the ability to understand other people. Here I think the Progress Party is admirably ready. In the case of local cultural life, it is said that ‘As long as music and culture are not considered essential to everyone’ etc., the millions taken up by the representative Løvik can be cut in a previous line. From the logic of the Progress Party, this can be understood in itself, because you don't think it's a core task. It becomes more important and more interesting when we come to the party's treatment of Norway's high school music, which is cut by 9 million. kr, and even harder: State art hay schools cut by 30 million. kr. Then I feel that I have to ask the representative, Evje, about the formation concept of the Progress Party, that is, that we as citizens can act in such a way that we can meet others, understand their experiences and value them. How far does it actually take? When you know the situation of stage art colleges, know the situation of the Arts and Crafts School, know the situation of the Academy of Fine Arts, I feel that in practice this offer to Norwegian citizens, which is absolutely essential for one to meet others, values the Advance Party so much that you can cut it by 30 million. and with a small excuse for a pass, that you can basically cover it by fee grants abroad. Is this in earnest the view of the Progress Party on music and culture in the broadest sense, which has been expressed here? Or was there the need to find some money in the aging of the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e395	When Dørum chooses to attack me and the Advance Party on this in his slightly subtle but extremely elegant way, I think he feels that he is entitled to do so. I guess I'm both personal and on behalf of the Progress Party of the perception that education can be learned, but it's also in what you're genetically, backgroundally, hereditary. Many people can learn and do education. They seem enormously competent at this. But then come these little, special situations where the glaze cracks, and you know what's behind. I would very much prefer the concept of formation, the ability to participate in common, the ability to see and be in, was part of our common heritage and not part of an acquired knowledge alone, because then you get these fern problems. When the Fernisse cracks, it's not always as beautiful to look at. In the case of concrete colleges of art, it is a fact that the School of Art in Bergen, for example, has a significantly better operational base than the School of Art in Oslo. There may be a lot of different reasons for this, but as long as you can't figure this out, we don't see any reason to throw good money out the window after bad money. We want a review, a statement and a clarification on how this can be done in a sensible and sound way for the best of all, before we want to grant this money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e409	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e412	As far as I know, the Stortinget has never made such extensive re-priorities to the budget proposals of the KUF Councils as in the course of the year's budgetary procedure. There's been re-priorities for over half a billion dollars. This fact can make government councils sleepless. This year, the Council of State may rejoice because the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the other central parties involves an increase of over 320 million. kr. This clear re-priority tells more things. Firstly, there was a need for marked changes. Secondly, the Government was flexible enough to have a budgetary agreement with the central parties. Thirdly, the Christian People's Party and the other centre parties have achieved a great deal. The changes in society are now leading us into the knowledge society. A good education system and strong commitment to education, skills building and research are key factors in building a good society. Knowledge and insight provide the basis for quality of life and mastery of work and social life. Our ability to ensure competitiveness and innovation in business is the key to increasing value creation and financing the welfare of the future. But the knowledge society also increases the need for awareness of values and ethics. The future's businesses depend on brain power rather than muscle power. As a result, the treatment of their employees by their managers is so important for a good outcome. The ability to cooperate and understand interpersonal relations increases the need for a formalised work ethic in each individual. At the same time, we face new ethical challenges related to research and societal development. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that the education system focuses on these trends and includes the dissemination of values and ethical reflection in education. The government's proposals for the 2001 education and research budget have previously been characterised as a gi and ta budget. It was difficult to figure out the profile and the reasons for the choices made by the Council of State. Let's do the research. Here, the research fund's reserves are considerably increased, but the funds for universities and higher education institutions carrying out important basic research work are reduced. Or the election for the Church: The Council of State proposes 35 new performances, but braves the local church for money by cutting off the government grant to the church councils. Prime Minister Stoltenberg so early that he wanted budgetary cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the central parties. However, the Christian People's Party did not see the Government's draft budget as an invitation to cooperation. Wide-ranging re-priorities had therefore to be made in order to defend a budgetary agreement. And we've done that. In budgetary work, the Christian People's Party has had four main priorities. Firstly, the Christian People's Party wants a strong commitment to research and higher education. Christian People's Party meant what we said about the need for a boost for Norwegian research when Stortinget dealt with the research report in winter 2000. We particularly highlighted the need to invest in basic research. The government would cut the budgets of universities and colleges as a result of lower student coal. Rather, we need to spend this money to improve the quality of our studies and ensure basic research. I am pleased that the budget agreement strengthens universities and colleges by over 270 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. In addition, the research fund's reserves are increased by a total of DKK 3.5 billion, half a billion more than the government proposed. All of this shows that the Christian People's Party will provide higher education with an economic framework that can strengthen research efforts. However, if we are to achieve the objective of increasing research efforts, we are dependent on business increasing its efforts. The Christian People's Party believes that tax measures, as proposed by the Hervik Committee, may be necessary to achieve this. Higher education has an important role to play in enhancing competence in their regions. The Christian People's Party is therefore increasing the appropriations for state universities by 30 million. kr, to be used for repatriation of study places. Furthermore, it is important that the Department shows flexibility in the distribution of funds, in order to respond to the capacity and willingness to convert to higher education. Particular concern is the reduction of engineering training. We must not weaken the environments of competence in engineering training, so that Norway does not acquire the technological skills that the future will require. I am very pleased that the majority of the committee will continue engineering training at the University of North-Trøndelag. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee wants to give private colleges better framework conditions in order to contribute well to the development of competences and research. The government's proposal to cut study places is rejected, such as: means that diacon training is maintained. The majority consider that, in principle, the organised research training provided by these colleges must be taken into account in the establishment of the grant framework. We ask the Government to come back with proposals to this effect. There is also agreement to open all research programmes in the Norwegian Research Councils to all relevant disciplines, regardless of whether they are private or public. If we are to succeed in achieving our research objectives, we need to establish cooperation and interaction between private and public actors, including in the higher education sector. The Government has amended the Statute of the Council of Technology. The Christian People's Party has always believed that it is important to establish a technology council as a critical player in public debate on technology and society. We have said in the past that this can best be ensured by co-location with the other research ethics committees. From what has now happened, it is right to have these questions re-examined in Stortinget, and that the Government presents the question of changes to the terms of reference, the statutes and the secretariat function to the Technology Council as its own case. The second main priority for the Christian People's Party has been to get a quality promise in high school. We are pleased that municipalities will receive more money in 2001. This money facilitates the pressure on the school sector, although in many municipalities it is tight and school closures are assessed. What's more positive about the paycheck the teachers got this year, and it's my impression that this has given a new inspiration to many teachers. The proposal for increased investment in ICT is also positive, and is supported by the Christian People's Party. However, we need to increase efforts in the field of youth hospice and competence raising, because this is a good contribution to quality development and teacher recruitment. The third priority for the Christian People's Party has been to ensure diversity in school. Other speakers from the Christian People's Party will go further into this. The fourth priority for the Christian People's Party has been to give the Church good working conditions. It is important to allow the Church to be a church for most people. For me, that means, among other things. to lay the Church's own self-understanding of the task and role of church policy. Only in this way can the Church itself engage in people's everyday lives and challenge individuals and communities. It is good that there is agreement to establish 35 new performances. It is also gratifying that the Government does not receive support for their being financed by adding new tasks to the Information Society Fund, a fund such as: shall ensure the future economy of the Church. We need a more fundamental debate about the fund before we take it from it. I am also pleased that the cut in the grant to the Church Council does not receive support. When I hear that the chairmanship of the municipality of Snåsa in Nord-Trøndelag proposes to cut off all municipal appropriations to the local church – including statutory tasks to the municipality – the government's reason for reducing the state subsidy will be strange. However, the main single measure for the future of the Church is to get good baptismal training. A public sample submitted proposals for the necessary measures in the autumn, and I am pleased that the majority today will decide to ask the Government to present a case to the Stortinge during 2001 when an assessor assesses the statutory right to baptismal training. Finally, let me point out that the committee's proceedings have created an exciting concept for increasing the focus on human rights, genocide and the atrocities of war. There is now a majority to grant money to establish a national centre for human rights. Furthermore, it is a majority to support the Falstad Centre, which conducts training and documentation in the history of captivity, humanitarian international human rights and human rights of the war. The same applies to the Archives Foundation in Kristiansand. Together with the Holocaust memory in Villa Grande in Oslo, these institutions will be able to give Norwegian schools and research increased focus on human rights and international international law. This is entirely in line with the Christian People's Party's desire to create a more humane society in the age of globalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e447	When the government of Stoltenberg presented its draft government budget for 2001, there were quite strong reactions — and strong words — from various representatives from the centre. Now the representative Lyngstad has given some praise today, which the government budget absolutely deserves. The church and performances are an area of Christian People's Party always paid a lot of attention. If you go back and look at what the Council of State Lilletun proposed in this area, it is actually the case that he proposed the creation of a single new prestige. One new prestige was Lilletun's priority. State Council Giske has got another promise, as we all know. With regard to the budgets adopted for this ageing period in the field of church, education and research, it is also interesting to see the shift that took place two years ago. Because when the Right and Advance Party made budgetary compromises with the centre, a cut of 30 million was made in 1997 and a cut of 328 million in 1998 – for that budget. That was the result of the two years center found together with the Right Party and the Advance Party. In 1999, we got a different result – plus 267 million. This autumn we have also got a good solution with a new promise on the chapter church, education and research. I want to challenge the representative Lyngstad. Where does the representative Lyngstad think that the Centre and the Christian People's Party find the best solutions for the Church, for research and for education? Is it in cooperation with the Labour Party or is it with the Right Party and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e458	The representative Lind says that the government's draft budget deserves praise. Yes, on some points it does, but the budget has become much better with the changes that the central budget agreement has made. It is true that the Council of State and the Government introduced 35 new performances. I see that as a starting point for a escalation of the church staff, there is a need for that. I hope, however, that this is not a signal that the Council of State and the Workers' Party only want a pastor's church, but that there will also be other types of positions in the Church. This is a good start, which we in the Christian People's Party want to share in continuing. It is also right, as the representative Lind points out, that we have achieved some completely necessary re-priorities in this budgetary agreement. And without the major re-priorities, we couldn't have gone for the draft budget on which the government based. The cuts to private schools, the cuts to higher education and the cuts also for church purposes to finance these performances, which were made by taking funds from funds, yes, there were actions we could not support. That is what we have done in the budget negotiations and the budget agreement, and we are pleased about that, but it shows that the best solutions are found in the centre of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e468	The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left fails the religious communities. Funding schemes for privately owned school and church buildings are cut by over 50 pst. Last year, 15 million were granted. kr for this purpose. This appropriation has been proposed by the Progress Party to maintain. However, the working party and centre propose to reduce the allocation to 7 million. kr, despite the significant need in this area. The Christian People's Party has previously been a hot defender of this post in the state budget. My question is, what has happened that has changed this position? Are not religious communities, church buildings, and private schools any longer so important to the Christian People’s Party? And then what's the reason for this? A slightly different matter: difficulty in reading and writing. In my reply with the committee leader, I got the impression that the Workers' Party wanted to blame the center of the cuts that are on research. 258 item 21, 5 million. kr within this range. That was as far as I understood, a consequence of the contract negotiations with the centre. If you want to take the problem of reading and writing problems seriously, I cannot understand the logic of such a cut. I would assume that the representative Lyngstad can explain this logic to me if it is such that it is the center and not the Workers' Party that is responsible for this cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e475	The Progress Party Ulf Erik Knudsen says that the Christian People's Party is failing the religious communities, and indicates that the central parties and the Christian People's Party have managed to continue a grant arrangement that the Government proposed to abolish, not at the same amount as in the current year's budget, but the option that the Workers' Party proposed was to completely remove the scheme. That's also part of the reality description. I'm actually a little proud to have that grant scheme put in place again, so it's still possible to receive grants for such purposes. I would like to give more, but that is how far we came. And one knows that in budgetary negotiations one has to give and take to find solutions, and this was the result. Of course, the Christian People's Party also wants to take the problem of reading and writing difficulties seriously. It is clear that when a person is about to re-prioritize, a person has to take the money a place. I'm not as happy about all the cuts that have been made, but I think we can live with the cuts and the repriorities that have been made. And if the representative of the Knudsen points out, become too difficult, yes, then any government and any big business is free to re-address those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e482	I want to grab hold of and ask for two of the things Arne Lyngstad talked about in his article. The one relates to the development of competence in the youth sphere and the special problems we find there. Of course, we in the Right are quite a few in that there is a lot to do, but I want to ask the representative Lyngstad in particular: what is wrong with the Right's proposals, which are concrete in this area, when the Christian People's Party does not want to support them? It shall apply, inter alia: This is getting greater variation and greater freedom of choice in the youth sphere, which very many elephants are calling for. The other matter that Lyngstad had in mind was this with competence in information and communication technology. There I would like to ask the representative Lyngstad to comment on the most topical of the proposals that are being made today, the distributed proposal to maintain the ICT business as a VKI course. I remind you that this is a relatively new subject, with great success – 2000 seekers to 850 places – and the need is thoroughly documented. Among other things, a study published in Computerworld’s online version of 13 June 2000 shows that the cost of looting and debriefing in the operation of ICT systems is about 2000. $28 billion in Norway, and that this competence is very scarce. These are the problems we have tried to solve through a new specialised ICT course in further education. And the department will now – unfortunately, in my view – integrate this course into a larger course and limit recruitment to a few basic courses. The size should now make it clear that the ICT industry is not part of a particular race, but a course for a comprehensive Norwegian working life. If the centre joins in on the proposal that has been distributed, there will be a number for it, and I would like to ask the representative of Lyngstad for support, and for him to comment on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e491	The representative of Løvik was concerned with the development of competence in high school. I think both the Christian People's Party and the Right agree that it -- call it the step -- that there's a need to do something about, is exactly the high school. It was therefore also the case that the centre parties stressed the need for — and were able to — increased funding for hospitation and competence development measures in secondary school. We just cooperated to increase the resources of this sector. The right could not come into such a position that they were able to provide funds for these measures. In fact, I believe that these hosting and competence development opportunities will both provide educational renewal for many teachers and also provide young people with new ideas on how to teach. This, I think, will also benefit young people. Then the representative asked me to comment on the proposal he has put forward in the Chamber today, on the ICT business as a separate VKI course. We have looked at the proposal, and I must say, like the representative of Løvik, that I am somewhat surprised at the choice of structure that the Council of State has made in relation to the ICT subject and this business subject, unilaterally linking it to the direction of study sales and service. In my opinion, it is actually an advantage if you can get applicants from all the courses at the basic courses here, so that they can get into this ICT business with their background. So my assessment of the proposal is that we are positive about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e498	This has obviously been a good harvest for the Christian People's Party. They have had a high profile, and Arne Lyngstad's posts blend well into this Christian People's Party-self-satisfaction we have marked this fall. You can get a feeling that there is a Christian People's Party that has run the budget negotiations, and you can also wonder if there is one area where the Christian People's Party has not won. But in one area, some of us know that there is no reason for the self-satisfaction that we get demonstrated. It's about research. Just under a year ago, the then Christian People's Party Council presented a research report, and a majority here in Stortinget were aware that the research rate would be increased. We're going up to a higher level, we're going to reach the OECD average level over a five-year period. But neither the original budget nor this budgetary agreement brings us closer to this objective. It has to be very clear. We are not getting any closer to this goal, despite the fact that the budget agreement increases the education sector framework by between 250 and 270 million. kr. Half of this is for research, and the research effort is increasing by well and well 100 million. kr i with the budgetary agreement. That's the actual ratio. If we are to achieve the goal we have set, public research must increase annually for a five-year period by at least NOK 1 billion. This doesn't bring us any closer to the goal. That is why the question of the Christian People's Party, which was involved in the OECD average level objective over a five-year period, is it felt that we have come closer to this objective of the budget with which they are now making their way on the chest and are very satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e509	The representative Rikvam says it's been a good harvest for the Christian People's Party. Yes, in many ways it has been. We've been through a lot of things. And I'm not hiding that I'm happy to keep resources in the university and higher education sectors. I'm pleased that we're getting increased resources to the Church. I am pleased that, in a budget settlement earlier this autumn, we had halved food tax – to take other areas as well. But that doesn't mean, of course, that everything in the pile is just gold and green forests, as the representative Reikvam wanted us to say that we experience it as. I agree with Mr Rikham that we have major challenges in achieving the target average OECD level of research efforts. But we have at least laid a foundation when we have reversed the trend. I agree that we need to do another job in the years to come, but the decline in research appropriations has stopped. The fund is increasing, but in addition to increasing public spending, which we must do by keeping resources in the higher education sector and preferably also increasing them in the years to come, business needs to be stimulated to take on much greater responsibility. In fact, here I think I am missing signals from SV about what they think about it. In the setting, the center parts point, among others. tax incentives are needed to increase research efforts in industry. We need to cooperate with business in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in the field of research policy. I think that's the most important challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e516	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e519	Let me begin by joining in the compliments that the representative Lyngstad in today's debate started out giving to the chairman of the committee for her way of managing the committee. It turns out that in the game of chance, there are an unusually large number of Westerners in this committee. It makes me, as a mountain climber, feel the urge to design this compliment in a special way that mountain climbers like to do when they're in the tolerant corner – it happens too. Then they tend to say, "We remember that we're all strippers for our Lord." It can be particularly useful in a church committee — of course — to express it that way. The Chairman of the Committee said in a reply earlier in the debate that the Government's efforts for research are impressive. To substantiate this, she showed that the Government had continued the proposal that was clear when it took over, to increase the Research Fund by DKK 1 billion in the revised national budget, and that it has also escalated the Research Fund by another DKK 3 billion, and through the budget agreement by another half a billion. That's the element that's positive in the image. But it must immediately be added that it is the simplest in budgetary terms to park a few billions in a fund. The impact of this is first seen in the longer term, and even if you expect a return of 6-7 pst., it will not be all the world's contribution to the ongoing operation of research and higher education. What was the problem with the government’s draft budget for higher education was that it made the same mistake as the government of Jagland in its time, when it suddenly, overnight, imposed a cut of 2 000 study places on the university sector. There was a great deal of difficulty in correcting the situation afterwards, as it became clear to everyone that the impact of this was quite devastating for the university sector. This time a rather drastic cut was repeated in the allocation of universities. To the extent that the State Council, through its State Secretary, justified this in the public debate, it simply said: This is something to be done because the number of students applying to universities has fallen somewhat. It's a real logic. In the spring of 1998, the Stortinget unanimously instructed the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a new way of allocating resources to universities. The explicit order from Stortinget was to shield the research section of the universities from random fluctuations in the number of students. This order has not been completed for the time being, and it has become comprehensible through the draft budget promoted by the Government this year. For this reason, the Right has found it necessary in the budgetary position to recall this decision on enlargement, which stands by it. The budget agreement has now corrected the worst impact of the Government's proposals on universities. But let me stress: it's done no more than restore the damage that would have followed if the government's proposal had been implemented. It's still a good time until you're really on the offensive, in line with the escalation plan that the Stortinget has said you want for research for the next five years. It is gratifying that the Committee as a whole has renewed the appointment of the Government, this time with a view to returning with the mandatory escalation plan in the revised national budget in 2001. In it there is indirect confirmation of what the Right said, namely that what we received in the revised national budget this year was neither a commitment nor a contingency plan, it was only a copy of the announcement then made by the State Council Lilletun, and the committee setting the Stortinge gave it. I expect that when we debate the revised national budget for spring, we will have something real and substantial from the Government to stick to. The OECD has repeatedly pointed out that the Norwegian education policy differs from the average of OECD countries by different profiles. We use in Norway relatively more in primary schools than most OECD countries do, we use about the average in higher education, while we use markedly less than what OECD countries do, at university and higher education level. There may be a lot of reasons for this, but there is at least a lot of talk that if Norway is to reap in the future the benefits of our basic research environments and our higher education environments that we should reap, we have to follow up more ambitiously on ensuring the quality of our universities and colleges. As far as secondary education is concerned, I note that the budget agreement is not particularly positive, as the majority is cutting both in the equipment allocation, 10 million. kr, and the Government's proposals for quality development in higher education are cut. I haven't seen any reason for any of these cuts, and I can understand that very well, because it's not possible to justify them, as the situation in high school is. In the case of primary school, the right has also shown that we believe there is a need to further invest in the provision of continuing training for teachers. A week and a half ago, VG had an overview showing that there is a catastrophic shortage of professional competence among teachers who teach key subjects at the youth level. It's about subjects like mathematics, English and Norwegian, and it's also about the new CRL subject, how few teachers disappear in the field they teach. Internationalisation is also an important challenge in school and education policy. It is therefore amazing that in 2000, the Government presents to the Stortinget a budget proposal which dramatically reduces the fee grant scheme for Norwegian students who want to pick up impulses abroad. It is even more incomprehensible that a draft budget is proposed to remove the support for supplementary education for Norwegian children who live with their parents abroad for a short or longer time. At this point, the budgetary agreement has fixed a little bit of a path in terms of the fee grant scheme, and fortunately, the complementary education offer has been saved. In parentheses, let me make sure that this falls well into a pattern. There have been 1 and a half years without the State Council being able to give a response to the application for approval by the French School here in Oslo, which is a similar offer in the context of internationalisation. It is difficult to say that this is an ambitious and forward-looking form of education policy. Finally, some remarks about the church chapter in the budget. A joint committee noted with some wonder that a few weeks before he made the promised announcement of the Church's economy in the future, the council had drawn the conclusions of the announcement the Stortinget had not yet received, by making quite fresh new arrangements in terms of the return of the Information Society's Fund. On this point, I must say that I am pleased that, through the budgetary agreement and the work of the Committee, this reallocation of a large-scale notification has not yet been taken into account, and that other ways have been found to cover those posts. At last, a little heart attack. If the Council of State and the Government Party, on behalf of the Church, had had an equal level of ambition in securing the usable economic working conditions, which it has in governing a church that it does not consider competent enough to govern itself, I think the people's Church in this country might have seen the future desire to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e552	It becomes a little disappointing when the Vice-Chairman of the Right and their principal spokesman in the field of education uses almost all of his intervention just to comment on the budgetary agreement that has been reached, which other parties have been given, and says very little about what is Right's own priorities. It gets a little small when the Vice-President of the Right and their spokesman have reduced themselves to a commentator to and looks at the budget instead of talking about the policy they stand for. But I understand in a way that they don't talk so much about the priorities that the Right has put into the budget, because we know that the increases that they are proposing in the education sector finance them by cutting off the weakest. They finance increases by cutting the health pay system – for sick people. I don't think the chroniclers agree that it's the ones who have to pay for the universities to get more money. They also cut, as they have done all the other years, in the appropriations for aid to the poorest in the world, to make their budget go up. I understand that the representative does not talk so much about it. I also understand that he does not talk about it when you look at the cut budget, where they finance their actions by cutting in and raging the school leisure system and by virtually removing the lending scheme for high school books. Then the representative was injured in order to make a mistake here. When he claims that there was a dramatic cut in the fee grant scheme, it is actually wrong. An increase in the fee grant scheme was proposed. Never has any government proposed as much for the fee grant as this government has. But what the government has done is that you've reduced the number of subjects to which you're going to grant, in order to concentrate the efforts of the subjects that we think are the most important. And in any case, the representative can't stand here and describe this as a dramatic cut in the fee grant scheme, and present it as an attack on the internationalisation of higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e561	To the last one first. The way in which our foreign students are treated is perhaps close to both of them. Norvoll and I leave to those who have the shoe to answer, and their messages back to the committee have been relatively clear, to say it with an understatement. For Norwegian foreign students, it is very difficult to understand that this particular item would be a nearby object at all when you need to save money – it has every government, and I understand that. What I pointed out is that it's quite thoughtful where the government wants to save in, and that there seems to be a pattern in it. It's a shame to disappoint people, and it's a pity if Mr. Norvoll did not think he was given a clear message about the Right option. The right-hand option lies in the budgetary position. We have marked, as we have done every year in this ageing period, that there is a need to focus significantly more on research, significantly stronger on higher education, significantly stronger on the quality side both in secondary and primary education. On all these points, we have proposals that go significantly beyond the outcome of the budgetary agreement. The question of how the various parties balance their budgets in general, I should like to hold a long debate with Mr. Norvoll about, but I just want to remind you that the Workers' Party, in order to be allowed to continue to sit with power, has accepted to introduce half of the food tax, which they have always opposed. It will bind 6 1⁄2 billion dollars a year to make it easier for the Norwegian people to become even more overweight than it already is, while introducing VAT on training.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e574	In its proposal, the Progress Party has called for concrete measures to address the problems of violence and unrest at school. Among other things, we sketch. measures consisting of increasing the use of tried and tested methods such as punishment, retrial, short-term or longer-term expulsion in cases of violence, vandalism, violence, etc.. We also promote concrete proposals that students should be trained to respect life, health and the property of others, and in their conduct show respect for teachers and fellow students. In the alternative school policy of the Right, unit-price financing is proposed. Freedom of choice has been proposed, and the introduction of grades from the 5th grade has been advocated – good suggestions that the Right has copied from the Progress Party’s programme. One thing that the Right does seem to omit, however, is concrete measures to solve the problems of violence and unrest in school. I am calling for the Right's policy in this area, and I am asking the Representative for Wage to explain to me what concrete proposals Right are promoting in order to solve these problems. I have read through the comments and suggestions from the Right, I have heard the pay statements, but I have not found any concrete suggestions or comments. Is it true that the Right believes that there are actually no problems with violence and unrest in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e583	That the Right has copied the Progress Party program is unknown to me – now I must note that I have not read the program, but I assume that Mr. The Knudsen has. We're actually on most points able to formulate our positions without reading the programs of other parties. To the question of whether there are problems in school of a disciplinary nature and also violence problems, the answer is yes. It has taken up repeatedly on the right, among other things. in the Questionnaire. But I'm not quite sure it's the easiest thing for the Storting through detailed management of school everyday life to solve those problems. They think I actually have to be solved where they occur. My general response to the representative Knudsen must be that the Right's policy in this area is and has been that each school must be given much greater space for action and much greater freedom than it currently has, and that individual teachers must also be given much greater freedom and space for action than the individual teacher has today. What is the problem in Norwegian school is that we have a rather heavy, centralistic heritage that is used to everything being governed by detailed regulations from the ministry. It doesn't get any better if the Storting also wants to point their fingers all the way down to school everyday and tell how the individual teacher is going to operate with homework and criminal toys. I just think that this is a stillborn form of school policy. If you want to achieve something in school policy, you have to bet that it is the individual teacher and the individual school who need to figure out how to solve conflicts and how to solve the problem of education in school everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e594	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative who said about the church budget and the work that has been done in this regard. I also record that the Right gives praise for the efforts of the centre parties to maintain resources in the university and higher education sectors. I think that's raw too. It is a well-known case that Right-wing defends the right of parents to start fresh schools. Here Christian People's Party and Right agree, but I record that several applications now have their cause in the closure of public schools. As far as I am aware, this applies to Lillesand in East Agder, the Ølen in Hordaland and Snåsa in North Trondelag. In the Christian People's Party, we are dedicated to providing a school offer in the children's community. For this reason, we supported the decision of the Stortinge in ours to ask the Government to present a case that discusses the causes and consequences of school closures, with a special focus on the role of cross-border schools in the viable local environment. I also record that school policies are important to most people. I think it is related to the debate on school closures and the need for community economics. People experience it so that it is a public task that is being removed. Has the representative Wohnning made the same observation as I, that the closure of primary schools increases the desire to start fresh schools? Is there not a need to provide municipalities with financial resources to ensure a school structure that the citizens want?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e605	It is true that in my post I gave tribute to the centre parties for the efforts they have made to raise a university budget that is to live with. I'm absolutely up to it. However, I would like to point out that it would have been even more interesting if the centre parties had taken the trouble to present their own primary draft budget. In my opinion, it is quite a good thing in Stortinget that the various parties and groupings are making an alternative budget proposal, as one would have wanted to have the government budget if one were to assume the government responsibility. For various reasons, perhaps because they couldn't agree between themselves, the center parties haven't. Therefore, we are not told how they would have disposed of the funds if they had not been referred to having the Workers' Party as a partner. I might think that if the centre parties had provided their own alternative budget, it would have become relatively clear that the alternative, especially in the field of education and research, would have been much closer to the Right's alternative budget proposal than the Labour Party's draft budget. For it is my experience from this great period that in terms of both the content and ideological aspects of education and research policy, and not least in terms of church policy, the Right and the Centre parties stand substantially closer together than the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties do. Finally, the right has clearly stated that the issue of school structure in individual municipalities is the responsibility of local authorities. A usable local economy is, of course, a prerequisite for local government to be able to follow up on this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e616	The budgetary agreement between the central parties and the Workers' Party means that the framework has increased by 430 million. kr, a net increase of 329 million. kr. Nevertheless, the Right has more money to distribute to the educational areas than the Government's proposals. But if one looks at the whole of the Right Alternative Budget proposal, where education and school are flagged high, I'm not sure that School and Education Norway would get it better overall. The transfers to the municipalities would be significantly reduced after the alternative budget proposal, which in turn would make it even more difficult to create good schools across the country. Among other things, the closure of primary schools would shoot further speed. The right continues to finance unit prices in school. Pupils' prize! In my ears, this signals a pricing of students in a price/customer relationship that I disagree with, which I am not sure will improve the resource situation in the school, and which therefore cannot meet the needs that the school is struggling with. I therefore want the Right to elaborate on how such a system can protect the rights of students in relation to the Training Act, and not least on how this system will meet the needs of students who need special education, or rather specifically organised training, which is now a newer and better concept. And how can unit-price financing work fairly for students across the country, no matter where they live, in densely built strips or pig-grown strips? There are large geographical and natural differences in the Oslo/Akershus area and Finnmark, which will, of course, give a strong impact on costs per year. pupils, both in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e623	Let me draw attention to a little forgetfulness from my main post. I should have mentioned explicitly that I included the suggestions in the setting from the Right. It's done. So the answer to the representative Tingelstad about the Right's view of price financing, both in the healthcare system and in the education system. It is not a system that is totally based on the single price system, but it has an element of price financing. And at my discretion, it's hard to find ideological arguments against it. As far as I know, the Central Party has also accepted the single price system in the field of health policy, where it must be said to be as ideologically sensitive as it is in the field of school policy. The question is simply to find an allocation system that makes it easy to calculate the grants and at the same time makes it administratively operable, inter alia. in view of a fairer and more equal treatment of private schools and public schools. Of course, I agree with the representative of Tingelstad that, in addition to this, there must also be another form of financing that is able to take care of the local and district differences that we all know are part of the Norwegian reality. This is not, therefore, a purely price financing scheme. The question of the ability of municipalities to pursue a sensible school policy is that it is not just about the framework transfers to municipalities. There are a lot of other elements that affect the real economy of municipalities. My claim is that the Højre alternative state budget would provide the municipalities with at least as good economic opportunities as the one now adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e634	No salary has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e637	I think the representative on the pay side should be a little down when it comes to the harassment he's doing, both about the government's proposals for the budget and the budget compromise. One year the Right had the ability to control and had a hand on the steering wheel, so the result was a cut of 328 million. kr. It was Right's contribution that year, and maybe it'll be a long time until the next time they get a chance to have a hand on the wheel in relation to what kind of budget you're going to have in this sector. As for Arne Lyngstad's and Inge's embrace with regard to the weaknesses in this budget regarding the Church, I think you guys should go back and see what you did the two years you ran. With regard to the current year's right-hand approach, the Right has also cut within the education budget. They say that the SFO, the school leisure system, is to be terminated for all children other than 6 years of age. What time is the Right and the Representative for Wage living in? What kind of offer is the wage to give to all children — e.g. here in the city – which is seven, eight and nine years old, when school is at 13? Where are these kids supposed to be? In the streets? Or are you going to force parents to be home from work? When I look at Right's general remarks, I get the feeling that there's a school that looks more like the school the representative of pay must have gone into when he was a kid, than the school we need for the future, not least in terms of grades, which is to be reintroduced at the nursery. What strengthening of quality is this measure going to provide children with primary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e653	The President will remind Rikke Lind that the speech is to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e656	The representative Lind is probably a little too young to remember the school I went to when I was a kid, I think, so I'm going to assume that she only knows about the talk, and I'm not sure that the review is particularly comprehensive. I shall not unfold my childhood memories from this pulpit, but I certainly believe that the diagnosis is wrong. The school and education policies that can be read from the general comments and specific comments of the Right are a forward-looking school and education policy. That is why we want to put a lot more emphasis on quality development, on school content, and not least on basic research, which is the very foundation of the further development of the knowledge society in that country. I don't believe that I've been harbinging over the government's proposals. I've criticised it, and I actually thought that was the point of having an opposition, that it's the opposition's task to criticize the government and mark where you think the government is doing a bad job. I have pointed out some, at my discretion, quite fundamental weaknesses in the education budget that this government has presented, as has the church budget, and I have pointed to an alternative policy. It is probably right that the representative Lind has recorded in the course of the debate so far, that there is a clear consensus on all these points between the Right and the Centre parties, and that the Workers' Party actually stands here for a different policy. The cut to which the representative Lind is still coming back, I should like to come back to myself in this debate. In fact, it is also a question of how to prioritise within the framework, and the Right clearly acknowledges that, for the education sector, we give priority to education rather than well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e670	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e673	Let me first of all get a receipt from Document No. 8:86 for 1999-2000, concerning an extension programme for a weather radar network in Norway. The Committee agrees with this proposal, as indicated in its opinion. Then go to the budget for the field of education. The centre was involved in the budget discussions with the following main points: strong commitment to research and higher education, high-quality high-level education and diversity in School-Norway. We can today state that we have fulfilled these requirements far on the way. However, let me stress that we would like to have more money for the very youth. Tom Tiller has the following title on a lecture: «When learning-sola rails». He describes the need to create the warm landscape where children and young people want to learn. Society is changing, and the children are naturally affected as it is, and there is a need for other ways to meet the students in our technological and digitised everyday life. But in spite of this, most of the things are still going on in the field of learning. It's the values, the enthusiasm and the joy that make the learning room shine. With the risk of being perceived as something romantic in this description, I choose to have this perspective when school policy is to be discussed and decided in this house. I have repeatedly highlighted the need to strengthen youth. The school package of the central government last year just put the emphasis on youth. There it was, among other things. proposed means of testing alternative resources requested for the organisation of hourly allocation. I register that here is the unused means, but chooses to believe that this is not a deliberate training from the department. But I'm surprised it's taken so long to make this known to the high schools. The centre party is particularly concerned about the intellectually weak students, not least in the big classes. The need for differentiation of the educational system is urgent, but it requires resources. I record that the department has high expectations for the new working time agreement for teachers. The centre party is pleased with the agreement, but we warn against thinking that this should be a sleeping cushion so as not to give fresh money to the youth. It's limited to what you get into a five-minute post. That's why I'm referring to my contribution to the financial debate on the research and university sector, and I'm just briefly repeating that the additions are more than 230 million. kr to this area was absolutely necessary. In the education sector, in the view of the Centre Party, there is a sign that we want to meet different needs of parents, students and students. Let me, however, stress that the public should be the bearer of the education system, as our magnificence programme confirms, and as the centre parties laid down in their reign. I am directly disappointed by the government's cut in the extraordinary school battle of public high schools. These represent an important addition to our education system, which must not be weakened. The centre party believes that there must be training spaces between higher education and the higher education/university system. We believe there should be a diversity here too, as our country has been able to afford long before we got oil revenues. In particular, a high degree of flexibility in relation to the reform of competences, which has just been put on the rails, is important. State universities are very important in a regional policy context in addition to their responsibilities for a number of professional training courses. Many of these institutions have long historical traditions, while others are a product of the struggle of the 1970s and 1980s for higher education in the districts. A consequence of the reform of higher education can be the danger of eradicating small schools. I want to draw an example from the University of Nesna. This school is not large in the number of students, but it meets the target numbers and so on, despite the reduced search for teacher education in general in the country. In addition, the school has developed study facilities in cooperation with the region, such as. IT candidate in Mo i Rana, nurse training in Sandnessjøen, ex.phil. study in Mosjöen, decentralised pre-school education in Brønnøysund and public services for adults with special needs, as well as a number of basic subjects, etc. I also want to bring out the Hedmark and Uppland colleges, which now want to call themselves the Inland Higher Education School, with the clear aim of developing into an Inland University in the future. Schools, physically located in five-six locations, have extensive international cooperation in order to develop new study facilities for the benefit of the region and students. Otherwise, I refer to the vote on the chapters in which I am the case rapporteur and in which the committee or a majority is behind. In particular, I would like to highlight the increase in marine research and fisheries research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e706	As the representative of Marit Tingelstad well knows, I am a warm supporter of cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre. There are many common goods in what we stand for, including in education policy. But I have to say that I am surprised when the center is so hard on school books, and that at the beginning of this debate, the representative Tingelstad – of all – was at the head of a criticism of the free school book loan scheme. So this is the second year in which the Workers' Party has got its center, so it's become a majority for a total of 200 million. kr for the purchase of school books. We've agreed on that in two consecutive years. We are doing well to implement this system. The student organisation, representing all students in Norway, has asked us to call the lending arrangement in the budget agreement. Still, we can read and hear that the Center Party is critical of it. I am mildly stated when it is in this case the centre party found that they are dissatisfied with something in the budget. I actually have to ask myself sail: does the Center Party choose to draw out just that with school books because they're really dissatisfied with what they've achieved in their alliance with the Christian People's Party and the Left? The Christian People's Party has received the credit for more money for private schools, for high schools and for churches, while the Left has miraculously received the credit for increases to universities. Now I feel really pretty bad, because it's after all the Center Party that I have the most sense of when it comes to the central parties, but I have to ask, what is the Central Party actually getting out of this budgetary agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e715	Young people are allowed to be a little bad for older ladies, so I can handle it well. But I'm happy to get that question, because you don't get all the points when you have a line. First of all, when I was rapporteur on this matter two years ago, I put myself firmly into it. And what was striking was that there were no youth organisations supporting the lending scheme. They set the Book and Equipment Grants as No. 1st@item: inlistbox Instead, the committee leader said that I had said that the student organisations did not resign. I didn't say the student organisations, I said the youth organisations. Everyone, except the AUF, wanted a different system. This is a pure AUF case. I know the political history so well. I admire all high school students to receive free book and equipment scholarships, but to get a book in one subject and not get it differentiated in relation to professional subjects, which have much greater needs, for example. for equipment – protective equipment, etc. – I think that's a wrong way to do it. I want to use the hundreds of millions to start a box grant, but I know it costs a lot more. That the student organisations call about this – yes, it should be missing! When they get 100 million. kr, it's better than nothing. It would be alarming if they did not say yes to it. But I have not seen any political youth organisation other than the AUF who have said that this is the best. So that the Christian People's Party takes credit for all of this. No, they don't! If they do, it's in case I'm too bad to profile what I've got through. I'm very pleased with the engineering training and the higher education initiatives, and because we've got a lot of money to advance engineering education, because there are areas that are very important, not least to increase real-time competence in this country. In addition, the public high school is very close to my heart, and I am happy that we were able to maintain both the scholarship system and the support there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e730	I note that the majority of the Committee – all except the members of the Progress Party – also believes that data is a pedagogical tool to be used, among others. in prison instruction. I note that the majority, which thus includes the Centre Party, have found that there is a security aspect of this that needs to find its solution. However, the problem is that many people believe that such solutions do not exist. Even companies and institutions that have access to the most advanced computer programs, such as: The defense, the banks, the US organizations like the FBI and the CIA, are unable to obtain security in relation to the fact that information comes in and out. This is confirmed by the media postings, which the representative has probably seen. In practice, the majority’s desire to use ICT could lead to the continued criminal activity of imprisoned criminals through the use of ICT, electronic mail, etc. and continue to direct its activities to a far greater extent than can be achieved by ordinary imprisonment today. I would like to know from the representative what solutions she is looking at this problem, solutions that very many data experts believe do not exist – which is also documented through media lookups. Personally, I see it as directly frightening to leave criminals, criminals, access to ICT and the Internet while they're in jail.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e743	The Progress Party addresses the problem of ICT used in prison education. I almost want to be ugly and say that the Progress Party does think it's safest that prisoners are in prison for the rest of their lives – it's nodded by the representative, I see. The centre party is not of that opinion. The centre party wants people who have come to the slope, who have to make their judgment, to have an opportunity to recover in all areas. When we visited Ila National Prison, we saw the terrible conditions of prison education, but with the potential that teachers and prisoners said it was by strengthening education and getting modern tools, I'm sure it would be totally wrong not to let prison education take part in the new, important and modern ICT tool. But it's clear that we don't have all the security measures in place, applies to many, many areas. It may apply in areas as serious as those of the prisoners. I therefore think it is completely wrong to assume that because this could involve a risk, they should not have the chance. It is only necessary to work more and more to bring security measures into this area. In addition, a great deal of energy is needed to get these often shaken persons to use this modern tool, so that they can eventually get into society and become ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e754	The representative Tingelstad was very busy with the quality of the youth ball. It's a matter that the Right obviously supports very strongly. It is important that what has been proposed by the Government and by the conciliation is provided for accommodation arrangements and empowerment. Of course, we support that. But the objections to the youth ball, among others. from students, it is said that the youth ball is boring, that the youth ball is slightly varied, and that the youth ball needs greater skills among the teachers. And last, but not least: The youth ball is a little individualized. The representative, Mr Tingelstad, even requested more differentiation in the current article. Then my question is: if the representative Tingelstad and the Central Party really believe what was said, why not support the Right's three proposals concerning the youth ball, which go at exactly those points with the strongest objections and the greatest potential for improvement, for example. greater variation, more expertise among teachers and other schemes that can raise this level? The second thing I want to do is go to the municipal music and cultural spheres. I actually thought that the representative Tingelstad was in line with Right when it came to seeing how important these cultural spreaders are in Norwegian society. It's okay, as a group committee does, to refer to future distributions. But I am very disappointed that the Center Party will not now support Right's concrete proposal that, after ten years without increasing, we try to adjust the hourly rates, which would make this offer available to most people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e763	I'm only taking up the last Løvik. Løvik tears on a toe! I would have liked very much to have been involved in raising the hourly rate for music and cultural schools. I don't have any money, now! That's the answer. It's really a shame we haven't done this. We were able to raise some rates when we were in government, among others. in the case of heavy clients etc., but here we have not reached the goal, and the Right has the right to punish us a little for that. In the case of quality levels in secondary schools, there is much to be done. There is something in the proposals that the Right has, that makes me unable to say that we can join them today, because they really involve quite big changes. But what's most important, and I'm not quite sure if the Right will be there to support us on, is to increase the funds for the municipalities, so that they get more freedom of action and more opportunity to train and teach differently in the youth. I've examined this at many schools, and what goes on everywhere, is that there's a lack of resources. They have too little resources to care for the students who need the most help, they have too little resources to stimulate the strongest students, etc., so here we have to work together to get more resources. I'm not completely rejecting some of the proposals that the Right has, so I'm talking to in this area on a later occasion, but I don't want to shoot anything here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e772	It's pretty interesting to record the difference between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party when they talk about the budgetary settlement. Where the Christian People's Party strikes the chest and presents itself as the great victor, at least the Center Party uses a somewhat different rhetoric. Then you can wonder if this is a result of initial inflatedness, or if there are any realities behind the different ways they talk about the budgetary agreement. What's a fact, and as I think it's a little important for the Central Party to comment, is that in relation to the structure of the Workers' Party, it's a cut in the earmarked appropriations for the public school system. Then I'm talking about primary school and high school, and that's a fact. With this budgetary agreement, in relation to the budget proposed by the Council of State, there is an overall cut for primary and secondary schools. There is some increase in quality development in primary school, but it is at least offset by the cut in secondary school. At the same time, the Centre Party has been involved in a very strong increase in the appropriations for private schools. We know that private schools are largely located in central parts of the country, in densely populated areas. So, is there a twist away from the districts and into the center, if this means that one should facilitate more private schools? There is no increase in the grant rate, so this signal that the Central Party is sending out is that more private schools are to be established here. Is it an important signal for the Central Party to send out at these times when the public school is threatened? I think the Center Party should comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e781	I'm not going to comment on who hits the chest and why and how, and just say that we've had a constructive and good cooperation in the center fraction. SV need not worry that I have had more gray hair for that reason. When it comes to the main question from Rolf Reikvam, I can say that I'm not quite as allergic to private schools or infirmary schools as Rolf Reikvam is, because I'm too diverse. And it surprises me that SV does not see the strength it is for the whole school-Norway that there are some schools that have a slightly different starting point than the public school. I emphasized in my post that the Center Party is standing on the hillside to strengthen the public school. That's why we've fought to get more to the municipalities, and are glad that there was an increase in the municipal economic proposition now in ours, and that we got a further strengthening in the state budget now. This is the foundation for strengthening public schools. It's also a 25 million-dollar reinforcement. to the youth. I would have had more, but these are negotiations, and that's giving and taking. Now SV is in the situation that they are not involved in negotiations, and it must be sad when one has such an ambitious goal as SV has, and is as good as the representative Rikvam is – the praise he should have. However, the reality is when one sits at the negotiating table, and then one has to take another sheep. It's not right that I want to open up some growth in private schools. That's 1.6 pst. of the rivers of primary school that go to so-called infirmary schools today. It's a modest growth, and compared to other countries in the Nordic countries and Europe, it's very small. Nevertheless, I believe that we should have respect for the free choice of parents. It's the ones who have the primary responsibility for their kids still, and that's how I hope it should be. In this way, I am confident that what is in our programme is that private schools should be a supplement. We also had the same in the government statement when we joined the government two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e795	First, I want to distance myself from a general principle that young people should be bad with old ladies, which I will take a great distance from. So I'm kind of happy to stress what Marit Tingelstad said, that working for free textbooks has been a pure AUF case. It's wrong, actually, when the representative Marit Tingelstad presents it as if the center has worked so much for a school boxing student. We already had this case up for the first autumn of this growing period, and then the Workers' Party promoted a proposal that the Government should investigate both a loan scheme and a grant scheme. It voted against the centre, thus contributing to the rejection of the proposal. It was actually that John Lilletun was standing here on the pulpit and went in for an exam for a school box grant, not a school box grant for all students. So it's not just that the center government never suggested school boxing, they were actually also in words against it. In any case, it was the Workers' Party that got through last year to spend money in the state budget to achieve the goal of free teaching material in high school. There had to be a working party government to propose this. The representative of Marit Tingelstad argued that only the AUF of political youth organisations are for free school books. But I have been to many school choices and have heard of many school choices where the youth from the center parties have said: Free school books, of course we are! So I'm a little surprised when you kind of push the kids in your own party in front of you in this case. I am also surprised when one in one way blows away that the student organisations, representing all the students in Norway, ask us to call about the scheme. Then it is: Yes, of course, without us caring about it for that reason! So I say, I hear you say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e806	It's wrong that we in the center are against being free school books. We've worked to do that, but we haven't had the money and money to do it either in position or in opposition. If you go into the different program formulations, you'll see that we have a clear goal of a school boxing student. I must therefore refute the claim that we oppose this both in word and in deed – that is about what Konglevoll said. Free secondary school books are natural as we have a right for everyone to go to higher education. But now I actually have some experience in managing at school. I saw how we did it when we sold books, old books, etc., so now I've taken a ring round and asked how it goes with the school book loan. Yes, at least it does not contribute to ‘quality development in school’, as stated in the Financial Committee’s recommendation, but there is more work to be done. The librarians couldn't take it, because they had to have overtime, the teachers wouldn't do it, and then it was the middle managers who had to do this work. What do they do? Well, they tape the books to keep the cover pretty neat, and they register them. Then comes the great excitement when the books are to be collected into the spring to be offered to the next coal – what about the quality? I'm convinced that the lending system is a bad model, but I'm here to work to keep these millions and millions more, so that in the long run, we'll get school box grants or any free school books for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e813	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e816	According to Opinions polling panel for November, school and education are the most important political issue for voters. It is given higher priority than health and care, which came closest. I think there are two main reasons why school and education are now placed highest on the political agenda of most people. Firstly, it is a growing recognition that it is education and research that is the basis for what we as a nation will live on in the years to come. It's not oil and gas we're going to live on. Two thirds of national wealth is the value of human capital. This is not a given size, it needs to be managed and developed. It must be invested in renewal and updating. I perceive people's commitment to school and education, as an expression of such recognition. Secondly, the maturity, as we see in many places, and the resource shortage has now come so far that this will no longer be acceptable to people. People will no longer accept that children do not receive the training they are entitled to, because the school lacks hours for the sharing of groups and for adapted training or there is a lack of educational resources. People will no longer accept the introduction of large excesses in school. We can't accept that social differences are now to be exposed in school in an outrageous way. We have 70 000 poor children in this country. They usually don't have the thousands of dollars to attend excursions, camp school stays and various joint events. What gives cause for concern is that this recognition has not reached the majority of the Grand Duchy. One must have a lot of imagination and good will to see the Government's education budget as an expression of increased willingness to invest in education. The budgetary agreement does not strengthen public schools either. Rather, the agreement reduces the earmarked appropriations for public primary and secondary schools. As I have pointed out earlier, 25 million have been added. In addition to quality development in primary education, there are major reductions in secondary education. Overall, this budgetary agreement means cutbacks in public school appropriations. Increased teacher pay was necessary to ensure recruitment, and it won't improve the things that are pointed out here. The reduction is serious in itself, but what makes the situation extra serious is that the budgetary agreement increases the appropriations for private schools and not least for private colleges. To the extent that there are budget winners in education, they must be private schools. Since no amendments to the grant rate are proposed, this can only mean that more schools will receive grants, i.e. that more new schools can be expected to be approved. In view of the state of public schools, this is the worst signal that can be given. When a visitor to schools is impressed by the enthusiasm of teachers and students. It is pride among teachers and not least a recognition that the school needs to change educationally and organisationally. And there's a lot of exciting projects going on, where one breaks with the traditional way of organizing the learning work. Learning is no longer taking place for six hours at 45 minutes, with a clock like a chimera and telling you that now it is the end of the week, that this happens five days a week, and that one additionally changes courses for each hour. This is not the way the training is done. In the various projects, work is carried out on different organisation during the day, joint review of drugs takes place in large groups and can also take place across age levels. This is limited to a few sessions during the week. Instead, there are different venues where teachers guide and advise. I'm sure this is the way of the future to organize the learning work. It's our job to stimulate that kind of process. We who have participated in conversion work know that if we want a certain development, action needs to be taken. A person is not allowed to move without the person or persons who wish to change making disposals that show that this will happen to him. So it has to be put into our budget line what we call an incentive. This is the money that is to be used to initiate completely necessary conversion processes, which shows that we are serious about this. So in our budget statement, we're going to add 150 million. kr for this type of measure. The political debate is on the rise. There are several reasons for this, including: The fact that we do not follow our own decisions, and then I refer to what goes on in research and research appropriations. I refer to our suggestions that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e839	Rolf Rikvam has up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e844	SV is a well-meaning party. They're turning around in big words, cost-recovery reforms, big bets all over the place. Just listen to what Rolf Reikvam was about now: major improvements in content, a lot of money for school change, major improvements in the physical environment of the school, a special boost for youth, reductions in pupils at the youth level, increased investment in computer equipment and IT skills, a strong increase in teacher refresher training, a strong increase in research and not least a strong paylift for teachers. So my question is, was this year's paycheck good for the teachers? Does the representative Reikvam think that the teachers have reason to be pleased with this year's specifier? This is going to be in some significant amounts. And in addition, party leader Kristin Halvorsen and others are traveling around in the election campaign and taking laws in the billions class. SV has money for everything, but they have fun when they meet the realities, fortunately. It also confirms today's budgetary setting, which in many ways is only a small distance from the law. SV is good at shooting criticism at the other party, and jerking down on the other party. And my question to the representative Reikvam will be if he ever has a grudge over his own party, unless SV also participates in creating political disdain with his promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e855	If I've pondered it, I'm not sure, but at least I've thought about it, and I've reflected on who's creating political contempt. SV has no more money than the other parties have in this budget position. The working party and the budget comrades have decided how much money we're going to have. But within this framework, within the money we have at our disposal, we have different priorities. And we've been dealing with the framework that someone has assigned us, even though we think the framework should have been higher. It should have been a willingness to invest more in education in this country when we see what the school looks like. And I'm surprised that the Workers' Party is the party that's going to swing up here on the pulpit and tell them that what we're adding up to is a surrender. There is no overburden; these are necessary measures; there are necessary changes that need to be introduced into the public school. We choose not to give priority to private schools in that situation. The Workers' Party has previously agreed with us. If we go back to previous budget positions, no later than two years ago, the Workers' Party agreed with SV that it was right to give priority to public schools rather than private schools. But today, the Workers' Party is trying to chat with SV because we're sticking to the priority that we agreed on two years ago. So these are priority questions, what we're going to bet on, and education is the most important thing. So for the teacher's pay. I record that the teachers have received a necessary paylift, as a result, among other things. the treatment we had in Stortinget. For me, the most important thing and the only thing is whether this ensures the recruitment of the school. If this ensures the future recruitment of the school, it'll hold. If not, we'll probably have to use even more to make sure the number of teachers we need in school in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e864	The representative Rikham has, through previous lines today, been occupied by the Christian People's Party as an inflated party. Now we hear that SV will have the frames even more inflated. But it is true that the Christian People's Party is pleased that we have received an increase in the education budget, and that this has also been done, among other things. to private schools, because it was necessary. The Christian People's Party believes that it is possible to support a good public school while recognising the value of the private initiative to start educational institutions as an alternative to the public. Faith in the individual means both that we believe parents have insight into what is best for the child in schools, and that adult students also want choices. We believe that diversity is healthy in a society. SV says in the budget setting: ‘...the fight against private schools must be conducted as a struggle for a good and diverse public school.’ I agree that the public school must be good, but at the same time, Reikvam will have a fight against the private schools. Not only the schools, but also the private colleges seem to be a hair in soup for SV. For it is stated in an SV note that they ‘should be complementary to public institutions’. And then it says, «Many of the private institutions receiving support provide training in competition with equivalent public institutions.» Competition may be useful to some extent in developing certain fields of study and in gaining top-notch skills in disciplines. SV is the only party outside the comment on private higher education, page 43, that the majority "In principle, in the case of private colleges providing organised research training, this training should be taken into account in establishing the grant framework". Why such resistance from SV? I wonder what kind of ideology is behind being able to stand on the outside of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e888	We want inflated education budgets, but we don't need inflated egos. It's a difference of substance. For us, public school is a multiplicity of school. When the Christian People's Party speaks now, it may seem as if the public school is a particular unit. And then we have the private schools, and they are the ones that create diversity. In fact, within public schools we have a diversity, an incredible diversity. We have schools where they use a lot of different pedagogics, where they focus things differently. And in this way, one gets the diversity that we're chasing in public school. And we don't just get it; as I say, we have this diversity. We think it is important that all students go to a common public school. That's where the learning work is going, that's where the socialisation takes place, that's where the meeting place is for different cultures, and that's where children with different backgrounds meet. That's this system we're dedicated to defending and turning around. We see trends that this can be destroyed, that this can be broken down. We're not going to dramatize it the way the situation is today, then barely 2 pst. go to private schools, but this year's budgetary settlement is a sign that we don't like, where a prioritizes private schools rather than public schools. It's a bad signal to give, and that's what we're trying to shout a warning about and warn against, even if it's per. date is not dramatic. For all the sake of fact, we're not going to try to draw a picture like that. But there's a development that there's reason to be concerned about, and that we want to call out a warning about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e900	The representative Rikvam is busy by his, and it's as usual the private schools. In the setting SV says: «... the increase in the number of private schools is a serious estimate of a common public school.» And further down: ‘... the fight against private schools must be conducted as a struggle for a good and diverse public school ’ And now in the last line, and everyone's going to go to a public school. I see and hear what the representative Rikvam says, but I thought it would be a little simple. It becomes a little populist, it becomes a little bit of a little bit of a principle and very little consistent, if I can use that expression. Right and SV are some that the public school is the biggest and most important bet. There is no doubt about it. Right and left are also some that we should have a good and often public school, and that there is a great shortage today, and that an even greater shortage can enter the public school. But then I have to ask the representative of Rikvam to elaborate on it a little further. SV is smart about it, I hope, that both international conventions and parental rights generally give parents the right to choose the type of education for their children. In practice, anyone who wishes to do so can start private shelters. What's the point of discussion is, who's supposed to have public support to drive and thus keep prices down? By reducing the yield, as SV suggests, a few private schools for the few and the strengths of resources. Is this the goal, or does SV want to remove all the private bullets and mine that he said today, that everyone should go to public school? Does this apply at all levels of education? Are higher education, university and higher education institutions also applicable?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e924	We want a good, public school that has resources, that has the ability to share, that can provide custom-made training, etc., and that is where your parents want to send their children. That's the school we're fighting for. That's the school we're fighting for when we're busy with funding for education. Now our goal is to give a resource situation that is such that we get to this good public school, the multiplicity of public schools that are so exciting and so attractive that it's where all the parents will send their children. In terms of grants to private schools, we had a round on it a couple of years ago, where we had a comprehensive review of the grant system. There is reason to remember that the Workers' Party and SV were united about the models that were developed there, where we said that we should have different grant rates depending on what kind of offer this is. We believe that there is a reason, and we're good, to distinguish between educational alternatives where one is concerned about developing good educational alternatives and the learning environment – that that's what's at the center. They shall receive a specific grant rate, while others which do not represent an alternative to the established public education system do not receive the same grant rate. This has been discussed, we have no problems with this, and it is within the international agreements that we have committed ourselves to. We're not going to prevent parents from establishing private schools, so far away, if they want to establish it. But what we can do, and what we want to do, is use the subsidy rates to stimulate what we want to stimulate, and get the kind of education system we want to get. And that's mainly good public education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e934	It's always interesting to listen to Rolf Reikvam. He shows a willingness to intervene and an enthusiasm for which there is respect. And he knows a lot about school, I've said that quite many times to the representative Rikvam. And I also believe in SV's willingness to invest in education. In its alternative draft budget, SV refers billions to the sector, with large additions in some areas, while other chapters receive large cuts, such as: Eighty-five million. kr i minus to the church establishment in the municipalities. I have to ask: is not SV and Rolf Rekovam interested in the local level being able to fulfil the intentions of the new church law? It also surprises me that SV proposes to cut significant sums in colleges such as: Queen Maud's Memory, Deacon Home University Centre, University College of the Congregation Sister Home and Rudolf Steinerhøgskolan, who are run by voluntary and non-profit organizations and foundations. It is truly both surprising and regrettable that SV will cut appropriations for these well-established and well-run colleges based on the efforts of non-governmental organisations. Many of these institutions are old and have long traditions, and in particular the women who have been at the forefront of getting to these educational institutions. You see when a reader reads women's history. On this basis, I ask the representative of Reikvam the following questions: Does SV not value the offer and competence offered by these colleges, and does he not see that these schools represent a valuable supplement in the educational flora?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e945	Designation is a way of signaling what we want to prioritise. With regard to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research budget, we signal that we want to give priority to schools, primary and secondary schools through the ear tags we have. In order to explain that they are rates of education, the Central Party refers to the general framework transfers, that we have seen a sharp increase in the overall framework transfers to the local government sector, and it is true that there is an increase there. And as a consequence of this increase, we say that the designation of church activities locally has been covered by the general framework transfers, just as the Center Party says that their stakes in primary and secondary schools are in the general framework transfer. That's the actual ratio. We have made a significant increase in the framework of the municipal sector, and in this way we are going to finance church activities. As a former member of a council, I think it's a good and a good way to do it, to signal that the municipality should give priority. But when we're going to prioritize from here, give signals to the municipal sector and designate funds, we're going to label them for education and school, primary and secondary. In the case of private higher education, they are in a competitive position with the public university and higher education sectors. For us, it is important to show clearly that this sector is to be given priority, that is where the funds are to be used, that is where we are to spend money. Then I haven't said what areas we're going to reduce. In our general remarks, we say that where the private colleges are a supplement, they meet a need; but where they provide pure competition, we don't see any need to establish a market; that's a poor use of resources, we think.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e954	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e957	‘Knowledge costs, ignorance costs more!’ It was the slogan when 2,000 students and employees at the University of Oslo in mid-November gathered outside the Stortingen in protest against the government budget of the Labour Party government when it came to universities and basic research. I think it should be a theorem that should be left with the Government after this fall, because at this point there was a big gap between the agitation that was carried out publicly and what was the practical result. For the Left, we almost saw it as a provocation that the Workers' Party provided such a poor budget for basic research and higher education a few months after a total increase committed itself to raising Norway as a research nation in the next five years. And in the Research Communication, there was also a will in Stortinget to say that research and the education that carries it is, in practice, an important national strategy for Norway. For the Left, the Labour Party, in the fight for national strategies, was giving priority to the strategy to keep the Progress Party stagnant by putting on a state budget proceeds that made it possible to reduce the levy on alcohol rather than to strengthen basic research and universities. And everyone who sits with government, who has knowledge of budgets and knows that money should always be settled towards an end line, knows that you have to choose. For us, this choice was clear, and it was completely impossible to accept it. That is why it was very important for the Left and the other central parties to ensure that the budgets of universities, with the budgets of the higher education institutions and also for research as a whole were taken into account. That there was a result after a budgetary settlement, was good and necessary. But it is quite right, as several representatives from different parties have pointed out, that it was no more than necessary. It was necessary to change a situation where pessimism could quickly spread in the view of what Norwegian politicians were able to deliver in our university environments, to become a situation where, with some hope, you might say that in the next round it is, after all, getting better. I think that is a realistic description. But in the leap between having a pessimistic situation and having a situation where you can believe in something, it is important to give faith back to the environments that will carry this country forward. I say this so strongly because we who sit here in the hall represent different parts of Education Norway in our career. When I grew up, primary education was primary school, and primary education was secondary. In today's Norway, higher education is basic education, that's what the norm is, and that's what we have to take inwards, we who are responsible for the education and research budgets. I also have a feeling that the Council of State has a strong commitment, but I wish he had used as much of his glow, his intellect and his commitment to fighting for and understanding and improving the situation of university staff as to combating, criticising and guarding what is happening in private schools in Norway. So we can have different views on what to do with the private schools, but the commitment would be heavier and more properly channelled towards the bearing national strategies if it had been linked to the efforts of research and university. I'm not going to go further than to sum up what Director Kåre Rommetveit at the University of Bergen finally said about the government budget agreement on this point. He said, «Everyone at UiB should rejoice over the budgetary agreement reached. 210 million in addition to the four universities are saving us from a situation in 2001 that would become something close to chaotic.’ One cannot deprive the man of insight into what he is doing, this he has been driving for a long time. So he had the insight that he could comment on what was delivered. On other parts of the budget, it has been important for the Left to be together with the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, and thus also to make a compromise to ensure that the quality of youth is strengthened. It has been important for us to ensure the diversity of Norwegian school days. Of course, we're going to have a good and strong public school. It is ensured through municipal budgets, including: by strengthening the local government’s economy by DKK 1.25 billion. But then we have to show liberality and genuineness to the private institutions we have as a complement to Norwegian legislation, and to the private colleges that we have. It is quite right, as the representative Tingelstad said, that very many of these institutions have grown up from what we call civil society, the best traditions of volunteer Norway. And it is profoundly amazing to record that there is so little commitment and so little willingness to meet this part of the field of education that we experience from the workers' party government. Finally, I would like to make a comment on a point in the vote, on the need for pharmacists in connection with the liberalisation of pharmaceutical legislation. The left agrees with the comment in the budget, and we will point in particular to the possibility of increasing educational capacity at the University of Tromsø by eight places.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e981	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e984	The post that the representative Dørum now had here on the pulpit, I think was actually relatively unworthy. I record that the representative Dørum felt like a provocation that there was allegedly a cut in the budget of the universities. The 1999 and 2000 budgets must also have been a provocation for Odd Einar Dørum. It is true that the 2001 budget contained a reduction in study places. This was also done in the 2000 budget and in the 1999 budget. The difference is that then you didn't take out the whole cut in dollars and ears, but former councillor Lilletun chose to spread it over several years. A large part of the reduction is the money – that is, cut that was determined during the time of the former State Council, Lilletun. I think this is really with all due respect that the representative Dørum should take over. It is possible that I remember incorrectly, but I think I remember that the representative Dørum was the Council of State in the government that brought the cuts in 1999 and 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e993	It's absolutely right that I've been a state councillor, and I was actually known to say that I have no money, when I had no money. I also never used to wrap up what I stood for, when it was obvious to everyone that what I stood for could be better. And without commenting on it further, the Council of State has, through its argumentation in many contexts, performed to say that this is almost the best budget we've ever had. It is with respect not to report, measured against the practical everyday situation. So ask the representative Norvoll why I had the commitment to this background. Well, I had the commitment because the Storting actually expressed what they did about the research report. It was a large majority who actually made it quite clear to the government that was then to sit and govern, that the operating budgets of the basic research institutions were to be strengthened as part of the research process in Norway. It was a marshall from Stortinget, and I will not try to wonder what would have happened if the government of Bondevik had not been removed by the alliance between the Workers' Party and the Right. I guess if we hadn't followed up, we'd have got it parliamentaryally so it'd be pretty hot around our ears. And I guess the Workers' Party would be quite fresh in the criticism too – with reasonableness. So when the rule of play contained in the research notice was laid down, a platform was created that created expectations, and for a government – I would say – obligations. When those commitments are not fulfilled, there will be a debate, then there will be a breakup, and then you will have to find yourself in the criticism that is coming. Then we can rather rejoice that there was a centre that had the negotiating power and the will enough, and a government that also accepted it to enter into the conciliation that fixed the situation at the main points of the universities, and that enabled us to get a certain boost in Norwegian research effort rather than going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1005	According to a news message we could read on NRK Text-TV this weekend, Left government cooperation with the Workers' Party after the election will exclude the next harvest. According to party leader Lars Sponheim's speech at the national government meeting on Saturday, there must have been a hint of sympathy and some humility at the Workers' Party during the negotiations on the budget agreement, but this flow of them as soon as the agreement was a fact. This contrasts relatively sharply with the cooperation seen in this room, and as you can see in the situation the Stortinget is dealing with today, apart from perhaps a little squeezing between the representative Norvoll and the representative Dørum. I see the left-wing leader's play as an attempt to distance myself from a miserable budgetary settlement for the people, with which the centre of the Storting is really very satisfied, and thus an attempt to bluff the voters into believing that there is a significant difference between the Workers' Party and the so-called Centre option.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1016	Anyone who has been involved in politics in the past knows that it's not useful to try to bluff voters, one gets to stick to the way it is. It was that comment from the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman, who almost made it as if nothing had happened in the budgetary agreement, which was the reason for the reaction from Sponheims and from our side. They had practically not moved at NOK 18 billion on the income side – almost nothing! We don't need to hide anything. We have made a settlement that is responsible for the Norwegian oil economy, which prevents the interest rate pressure from increasing, and it did not make it easier for us that both the Progress Party and the Right, but especially the Progress Party, had budgets that are not of this world, with deposits that would have almost pursued interest rates in the weather, crushed households and threatened the finances of municipalities. In fact, when it comes to gambling, it is part of a national obligation to contribute both to a better priority for the country and to the recovery of anti-business taxes such as the initial business cycle tax, to the removal of the investment tax and to the strengthening of basic research at universities – that is what counts for the future. Then it's a good thing. Furthermore, it's just to establish what Sponheim has said, that the centre – and the left is part of the center – sees itself as an independent alternative. We recognize our agreements, but we also need to consider our options. And that day the Progress Party creates budgets that aren't just based on being suitable for opposition, we get a different situation. The day the Progress Party will add a part of its policy, it may be interesting. But earlier today, we have been shown a view of culture that creates a significant gap between the Progress Party and the Left. I'm not going to quote the representative Evje, but her view of art education seems to me to have been shocking.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1025	The representative of the Dørum shall be commended for having helped to correct important aspects of higher education and research in the conciliation, and the Dørum's finger mark is clear to see there. But the price of getting a reasonably satisfactory budget for higher education is high. I'm not going to deal with the debate on the $12 billion extra taxes here and now, but there's a significant part of this. Besides, it's a very poor budget, especially for further training. What I want to grasp is what one has tried to sell under the title 'free textbooks'. Free textbooks are far from free textbooks. On the scheme, the Teachers' Association stated to the Committee that they were positive to ‘reducing students’ costs of continuing training, but we cannot see that the scheme, as it is now organised, can be considered a quality measure. One year’s experience with the scheme also suggests that it should be changed because it is a heavy and bureaucratic one, and it is also home to the learning process by the fact that students are not able to make their own notes and underscores in the lending books.’ I'm aware that Left has a slightly different primary wish. But will not the representative Dørum feel more satisfied with his proposal to use these funds, which, in relation to the conciliation, increases the opportunities for the development of electronic learning material by 43 million. kr, for technical equipment and upgrading of premises for secondary school by 10 million. NOK 5 million for apprenticeships. NOK 40 million for further training. kr and to the general scholarship in secondary school instead of a box grant of 30 million. as a starting point for a full scholarship to further education? Wouldn't it be a better policy than to put in 100 million. kr in a hopeless project, even if it is marketed as ‘free textbooks’?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1038	The essence of the last part of Mr Løvik's proposal is whether the Left accepts agreements, and we do. It was just supposed to be missing! It's also well known that we should have wanted a different system. That is evident from our comments. It is also well known that we are awaiting an evaluation, and of course we see it as positive that the Council of State has turned this from textbooks to teaching materials. That's the answer. We made a deal, and we keep it. With regard to the other aspects of Mr Løvik's speech, it is quite right that the Left and Right in the budgetary procedure have had strongly parallel views in the view of research and universities. There's no reason to hide. But in the budget at the back there is a significant difference. I'm not going to pull it up now, but it's so significant when, among other things. in the case of cuts in sick pay schemes, cut in aid policy, penalty by the NSB by removing half of the grant, that in that framework there was an impossible situation between the Left and the Right. But at the point where the representative was at, and the general positions he has, there are significant similarities and parallels between our parties. We should have liked that we could have done something more with high school, but in the overall framework, the center's priority was that of the representative Lyngstad in an excellent way. We wanted to strengthen and do something for universities and basic research. We wanted to strengthen youth, we wanted to ensure diversity in school and do something for private schools and private colleges. When it was done, the money was spent. You have to be so clean-haired, because I don't think you're going to get involved in politics and try to get out to have more money than you have. You could say for what purpose you spend the money you have. In terms of education — to get back to it in the end — we will await the evaluation, because we also want to have an independent critical relationship with its outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1050	There is good reason to commend Odd Einar Dørum for the enthusiasm he has shown in relation to the university and university sectors, his contributions have been important in order to do something about the budget. I think there's a reason to give credit for that. He has also received heroic status in certain environments, so that he has done well. In connection with the research report we gave the government «marsjordre», according to Odd Einar Dørum. That's partly correct, but it didn't march. It didn't do what we asked for. In the revised national budget last year, it would come back with an escalation plan. It didn't. It came back with a comprehensive report, but not with an escalation plan. That's right. But Odd Einar Dørum makes it quite easy for himself when he covers himself behind this in order not to be involved in taking a real boost – take the necessary promise – for research, on which the Left was involved when we dealt with the research message. It's no harder than that. We know how much we use in Norway for research. We spend 18 to 19 billion dollars in total. We know that if we're going up to 27 to 28 billion dollars, if it doesn't change dramatically. That is, we need to increase the research effort by 9-10 billion dollars. In connection with the research report, we said that of this, the state's share would be 40 pst. and the others' 60 pst. It is not more difficult than to add an increase – we have said over five years – to about. One billion dollars a year. That's when we're at the finish line. But it doesn't do the left. The left had the opportunity to vote for our proposal. It would have been included both in the revised and in the budget now. Finally, in the case of pharmacovigilance training: SV has a note. We want to provide more places to study in Tromsø. Why did the Left not support that proposal when they had the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1059	When sin came into the world, insight also came into it. Now I have both been in position and in opposition, and therefore I am making money out of it. I can only dryly comment that in the city where we live, where the Workers' Party and SV tried to form city councils and then had to compromise versus the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, who also had to try to compromise, the Right, Left and Christian People's Party budget is higher in terms of education than the Workers' Party and SV compromise. That's life: you relate to the money that's here. That's where we're tested, not just when we're in free flight, but when we have to prioritise within hard frameworks. We have. So Rikvam and SV get to be an enthusiast who shouts, because very often it's important that someone has that role. But we who are standing there can't spend any other money than what we have. Sometimes it's sad enough to tell people that you don't have money. I have done that as Minister of Transport, and I can trust the representative of Rikvam that it is an interesting study trip to go around the country to do so. But at the same time, it's all the more important to be able to say now that we have money for university, we've wanted to do something about basic research. This is essentially the principle of the reply to the representative of Rekovam on the plan of escalation. A government has frameworks and possibilities to create it. A big one can ask for it. I see in the situation we are now in, that it is very gratifying that, unlike in ours, where we actually did not get such a collection, we have a committee with the Workers' Party on the inside asking for a stepping-up plan in the revised national budget. I agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam, that we cannot repeat such proposals very many times. But then Stortinget has to do a job, and I take that insight inside me also as part of the representative's reply to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1066	The agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Party has led to more money in the Ministry of Education, Education and Research. Of course, we are pleased about that, and there are priorities in the area that I think are very good. I shall commend the representative Dørum for his commitment to universities and research. We've heard that in a lot of contexts, and he's been told it both in the media and among universities. But I have to say that I am responding to the use of words, that next year's budget, presented by the Labour Party, is a 'provocation' against the Stortinget. The current university budget is SEK 7.276 billion. The next year's budget was in the proposal of DKK 7.226 billion. And then I'm going to add the 100 million. kr for the current year that Dørum voted against – or at least the representatives from the Left in Stortinget, if not Dørum was here. 50 million. kr is different, and it is a ‘provocation’! 67 million. kr is to cover the cut that Lilletun and the government Bondevik had in study places, but for which they did not take responsibility by cutting the budget lines. I've written that 210 million. kr is good compared to what was. That's the vocabulary I'm very responding to. There can not be a "provocation". It's too little money, and the university directors have talked about that they want more, I understand very well. But I also think that the representative of Dørum has to take over the fact that this year's budget is going around the universities. And next year's budget proposals were in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1075	Now I don't think I said it was a 'provocation against the Stortinget'. I don't think I have the right to say that. I said it was a provocation to the left. It is my duty to draw the Left's policy, and I expressed it very clearly – not in relation to the large numbers, in relation to world history, or in relation to the budget last year, but in relation to the Research Communication. For these were three fundamental elements of the Research Communication, which the Stortinge gave to marshallers to the then government of Bondevik and so far to the later government. There was one element of a general escalation plan. There was one element about recruitment positions – and there, by the way, the government should be commended for it coming with it, including a priority for women in the post-doc situation. But the third element was to strengthen the operational situation of the institutions that carry basic research. It was relative to what I used such a strong expression. My expressions in this room are only a mild concentrate of the academic and formed criticisms that have shaped around the different universities, and one has sometimes come here with slogans like this. ‘Knowledge costs, ignorance costs more!’. Another has called 'Ap-makt is knowledge contempt!'. That's now the student's way of saying it. They marched formed and calmly, but the intensity of the engagement I don't think anyone should be in doubt about. Carrying this message on the pulpit of Storting, so that we don't just talk to each other in Norwegian social economy – and the representative Frøiland doesn't, me neither – I feel it's right to do it. Because it's very common for us to get involved in budgets in such a way that the areas that are strategically important are drowning in the large numbers. Universities and basic research are strategically important; they are the bearer of this country's future. That's why I expressed myself strongly on behalf of the Left Party, and I will continue to do so. But if it yields such results as in the year's budget, the hours of joy will be abundant for those who are allowed to share in experiencing them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1084	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1087	I'm not going to talk about the big lines of next year's state budget, but about some small, but still important areas. The government suggested that the ear-marked appeal for clay school education should be incorporated into the framework of the municipalities. This is the right principle, but we don't think it can happen until the clay spheres are secured by regulation or otherwise. It is easy that the municipalities are not required to send their elephants to a campfire during the time of basic schooling. And if the ear-marked funds were to disappear, yes, then I'm afraid that several of our clay balls across the country had been laid down. Another factor is that there is currently an ongoing attempt in 20 municipalities to get these funds into their frames. In our opinion, this project must only be completed and evaluated before it can become relevant to the completion of the ear marking. I'm glad that a co-consultant's committee is now asking the government to stop a payment scheme for the remote lending of books from libraries at universities and scientific universities, and that this is a solution so that one can perpetuate the principle of free lending of books. This is entirely necessary given that the valuable national long-term loan network will not disappear. Our starting point must be that access to knowledge in Norwegian libraries must not be made difficult for people who want to acquire more knowledge. We all know that distance learning and decentralised education are important forms of education in the reform of continuing education. Therefore, it is so important that all those in a training phase have free access to the relevant educational material through library services, so that no one is excluded for economic reasons. Another area that is important to focus on is the area of training within criminal services. This is an important measure for the education and rehabilitation of people who, for various reasons, come out on the slope. There is no need to boast of our efforts when it comes to training for our inmates. We've gone a little further, and in this setting, we're increasing the permission by 1 million. kr, but still there are several challenges. The first challenge is to address the research-based evaluation of prison education requested by the United Kingdom and now underway. Men's childhood, schooling and old age have always manifested their differences in society. This applies not least to the criminals, many of whom have had a sad childhood and a lack of schooling. We all know about investigations that have been carried out, where it turns out that very few of the intruders have continued training, and many have a lack of basic schooling. In addition, we know that a large part of the inserts have major read and write problems. In the context of the reform of continuing education and training, the Stortinget decided that all adults should have an individual right to basic education. Last summer, it was agreed that all those born before 1978 who are without further training from previous years must be entitled to further education. This is an important step which means that those with the least education in the past are put in the centre to prevent a classed society. Not least on this basis, it is also important to ensure and focus on the knowledge-based training they receive in our prisons. An important moment is to increase the individual's ability to master his/her working and living situation in society after closed atoning, in other words to be of benefit to the human being. And then I'll finally associate some words with what I want to call the 'new revolution'. The new information and communication technology will radically change society, even in ways and areas that we do not have an overview of today. But what we know is that it is quite certain that education will be among the sectors where change will be the greatest and fastest. That's going to have to take us in. This means that all those in an educational situation must master and use this technology, first in their own learning — in the next round of their life. Today we see only the beginning of the technological revolution in education. ICT is also a good educational tool. This new educational tool will fundamentally change the training. Then the teacher must also be able to use this amazing tool. Therefore, it is important to focus on developing skills both in teacher training and not least through good provision of ICT training.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1104	It is constantly possible to read and hear about workers' party people who claim that the policy of the Progress Party will lead to greater differences in School-Norway. This is by no means right. In reality, the Labour Party and the rest of the population account for differences in school in Norway. Today, it is up to the individual municipality and county council to give priority to the school. This leads to large differences from municipality to municipality and from school to school. The progress party is in favour of a new system. We want a Norwegian school that is funded through a state prize, which will give all Norwegian schools room for a good offer. It is also the case that the Labour Party and their friends in this room have consistently argued for schools to be treated differently depending on who runs the schools, i.e. work has been carried out to maintain the current system, where schools which are not run by the public only cover parts of their operating costs. This discrimination requires good advice if you want to send your children to private schools, such as: Stone school. In addition, the above-mentioned scheme applies only to those schools which have a so-called alternative pedagogy, or are based on a different religious position from that of the public school. In the case of schools such as: PrivateGymnas, who have neither ‘alternative’ pedagogy nor religion, have to cope without public support and thus become very expensive. The Progress Party wants a funding of the school where all are treated 100 pst. like from the public. It must be free to choose public or private schools — whether you are poor or rich. Another area for which the Progress Party has had a lot of fun in this room today is the SFO. It was claimed that the policies of the Progress Party in the Stortinget will frustrate school leisure arrangements in the municipalities. I would like to admit that the Progress Party is opposed to subsidies to the SFO of the State budget. I think it's more important to give priority to, for example. hospitals, care for the elderly, schools, crime control, etc. But I would also like to mention that the Progress Party has never been involved in the removal of SFO grants from the municipalities. The Progress Party does not wish to prevent municipalities that believe that this scheme should be prioritised and that have the economy to do so. It is also likely that until around 1998, the State did not subsidise the municipal SFO schemes and that there were still such schemes in a good number of municipalities. I understand that many parents think SFO is an expensive scheme. Then it is important to think that, like many other public enterprises, the SFO has an efficiency and savings potential. Basically, this is about something as simple as having some reasonably reasonable, awake and up-to-date adults to follow a group of children's games and other activities for a few hours. This is a work that should be well suited perhaps for retired people who will be in activity for a few hours, or people who want a simple and short part-time job. This should be significantly cheaper than today. SFO is also an enterprise that should be easily taken over by private enterprises/individuals in cooperation with schools and parents. It is not just the budget we have to deal with today. We are also discussing a proposal for a document from the Progress Party and the representative of Bastesen on the development of weather radar networks, Document No. 8:86 for 1999-2000, cf. Inner. S. No Seventy-four. We are very pleased, on the part of the Progress Party, that an overall increase seems to be going to support the idea we are promoting in this proposal. In the end, earlier today, I have had replications with both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in terms of reading and writing difficulties and research in this area, where the majority parties propose a reduction of 5 million. kr. As I understand the answers I have received, neither the Labour Party nor the Christian People's Party are particularly pleased with the cuts they have made in this area, and you want to focus on this effort further. And I have to ask, why have you done the cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1125	This is the last debate in this great period in which we are discussing the budget for church, education and research. All the parties at Stortinget have now had four possibilities for this period to get through their policies, and it is beginning to be time to sum up. Then the Workers' Party can safely say that we have delivered. We have provided increased teacher salaries, we have delivered better community finances, we have delivered increased investment in research, and we have delivered what was one of my heart's concerns when I entered the Stortinget, namely free school books in higher education. Last year, the Labour Party, in the budgetary agreement with the centre, was able to provide 100 million. kr for the purchase of school books. This year, the Labour Party government has proposed a new 100 million. kr. In addition, we have proposed that we spend more money on developing electronic learning materials. This is a total effort that will allow us to achieve in a few years' time the goal that all high school students will not spend money on school books. So we are doing well, and then – as I was in the line exchange earlier – I am surprised when the center goes out so hard and criticises the lending arrangement in its comments. In fact, it sounds nice with box grants, when they argue for it in the notes, but the problem is that the center voted against obtaining a grant scheme and never saw any advice to propose money for box grants when they were in government. Second, it's like we've actually started up with this system. We've already bought a lot of books, and the students have already distributed them. And then it would be wasted all of a sudden to stop it and rather spend the money on a scholarship. Thirdly, when the student organisations have said so clearly that the lending scheme should be called, because such a lending scheme saves students the most money per year. I find it strange that you blow it away. And finally, there is no majority in the Storting for a so-called need-tested box grant, because the Progress Party is against it. I think it is strange that the center takes a rematch on this matter. If the center is going to continue this way, we can risk never reaching the goal of free learning materials, because of political prestige. Then the students will sit with the black teat. I am also concerned that this could lead to even lower confidence in the politicians. I would therefore challenge the youth organisations of the Centre Party to ask the Centre to step up, take young people seriously and call for free school books. The low membership rates of political youth organisations, low electoral participation and low confidence in youth politicians should worry everyone who sits on the Stortinget. When Reform 94 was evaluated, it was also found that the goal of increasing student influence was one of the shortest goals to be achieved. But if we can't give students real influence over their own school days, how can we give them the belief that getting involved in society is useful? If we're going to do something for increased electoral participation and increasing youth involvement, we're going to have to renew and improve the school. In the summer, Minister of Education Trond Giske was given the curriculum in organizational work elective. Now all students can have the opportunity to get a pass on some of the time they spend on organizational work, in this electoral profession. It's a good start, but we have to do more. I think it's time for a democracy package for the school. This package must include measures to contribute to increasing social inclusion among students, but at least equally important is the fact that students have a real influence over their own school life. All measures do not necessarily have to cost so much money, for example: opening schools and letting in both political parties and other organisations. I have a soul experience from the AUF, and there I have often experienced that it is difficult to get into the canteen or the schoolyard, not to talk about getting into the classes. It's dangerous, later it makes many think. But youth isn't stupid. The fact that the schools let people get into the classes and talk about what they stand for will not mean that all the students are copying the opinions of these people! On the contrary, it will encourage young people to be critical, to take a stand and to form their own opinions. So we can do a lot for democracy in school without having to cost so much. But it's clear that we'll get more if we're willing to spend money on it. In the central budgetary agreement, we have a budget of half a million dollars for democratic work at school. It's a modest sum, but it's a start, and I hope and believe that the money can trigger creative projects directed by students, and that it can be a carrot and a start on the important work that we now have to tackle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1144	‘A whole village is needed to raise a child’ is a saying that is often drawn out when we talk about education. School is part of this village to provide students with knowledge and education. But this is not the only problem for teachers. Through this budget, we, as politicians, must also contribute to a better school. And this is what the Christian People's Party has done in the last four budgetary proceedings in the Grand Duchy. It's just the center parties that this entire magnification period has been in the majority position. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important in recent years to focus on youth and teachers there. Teachers are cultural workers. ‘I do not want a school where the teacher has become a technical administrator. No technology can replace the meeting with a living person," says Inge Eidsvåg. ‘Handshake is something other than keypress.’ It is still a long way left for ICT to take over at school, so the Christian People's Party is helping to strengthen ICT education, but at the same time it is important to make the teachers aware of their educational role and to facilitate the development of the teaching role. The teaching profession is both meaningful and developing. The black paint of your condition does not give you an increased recruitment or an increased status. Therefore, much more attention needs to be paid to the exciting everyday life that, after all, exists when faced with children and young people every day. I am pleased that next year's budget follows up the school package that started the current year with the effort to further develop a good, quality-of-the-art public school. Cape. 228 Quality development in primary schools, the centre parties would strengthen. The $14 million. The Ministry would postpone any attempt to allocate other hourly resources at the youth level, but the Christian People's Party believes that with such efforts there is a great deal to be recovered. That's why we want more attention to be paid to these trials. The proposal refers to various projects in the field of quality development. To this end, the Committee has stated that it is important to get a comprehensive overview of school development during the first six months of next year. The budget agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party increased by 25 million. to further enhance the development of the skills of teachers in secondary school, including: by means of a housing scheme in the business community. Now it is up to the schools to follow up on all these opportunities and take advantage of the legislative space available to meet local development needs and then find local solutions. And many attempts are being made in School Norway today. Therefore, it is important to disseminate knowledge from these trials and to document what may be useful to others. There are many forces, both teachers and students, waiting to be used. The Christian People's Party wants diversity. Even within private schools, we find diversity, and the Christian People's Party sees these schools as good corrective. This is quite different from what the government party uses in school policy. It's about parents' right to choose their children's education. The government's budget does not show any recognition of this, for example: where it was proposed that the supplementary education grant scheme be terminated from 1 January. The commitments entered into were due for payment. The central batches therefore had to make a lift in order for this to continue. Similarly, the lack of pay compensation for teachers in private schools, colleges and higher education institutions had to be in place. The scholarship to 19-year-olds who want to go to secondary school for a year will continue to be able to pass. This is often a year of maturity and depression that helps to make certain choices in life. If this scholarship had been removed, it would also be a threat to the recruitment of the National Colleges. We experienced a strong commitment from a large crowd of high school students outside the Stortinge in the fall. When they infer «Joy to the world», it was well to emphasize that precisely these students are a joy to the world. The Christian People's Party will follow up on this when the report of the Aamodt Committee is discussed later. Then we will return to the entire study funding, among others. the ratio for which there is now a majority comment, namely to assess the increase in the income limit for students with loans in the Loan Fund. The fee grant scheme must also be reviewed. I'm glad we've increased the budget by $12 million. kr, so that more students than the Government provided can receive scholarships. Internationalisation is important and necessary, including for our students. And we have to facilitate that more students can have the opportunity to study abroad. The construction of several student homes here at home are also measures supported by the Christian People's Party. A notice from NTB today shows that there are few housing facilities for disabled people and that this prevents them from taking higher education. This must be corrected, and I challenge the Council of State to take a closer look at this relationship. It is granted 186 million. NOK, some of which must be used for housing for students with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1163	Let me first give tribute to the Committee for a good position and a good work on the 2001 budget. I think you've come up with a result that it's going to be a pleasure to put into life for next year. All opportunities for knowledge and education are a fundamental objective. First, we gave everyone the right to basic education. And this year we've reached a new milestone, now we also have room to say everyone in higher education. In 1997, there were 5,272 qualified applicants out of place. This year, this figure was only 1783, largely just people who had applied for studies with strong access restrictions, such as: medicine. There's only a few decades since higher education was for the few. It's gradually become common ownership. Most today can choose for themselves – a choice independent of social status, residence, wealth and gender. I'm proud to belong to the movement that in the post-war period helped to fight education for everyone, not for the few. After higher education has become a right, the vast majority of Norwegian youth choose to continue after primary school. In many ways, we've now had a 13-year-old race. We'll take the consequences of that. We want to make the context clearer and the transition easier. We want to see the whole thing in this race. It is especially important to look at high school, to motivate and facilitate the individual at a stage where school education is the largest. If we're gonna get it done, we're gonna have to take the students seriously. The content must be challenging. We have to give the students something to go after. We must give the students responsibility for their own learning and development. Norwegian schools are to be the world's foremost in the use of new technologies. One hundred million. kr additional to ICT shall contribute to this. When the middle parties and the Workers' Party agreed on the state budget for 2000, we increased the appropriations for higher education. And we're going to do that now. It's positive. But it is also important that the appropriations do not become a sleeping cushion. That is why I am pleased that the bulk of the population strongly underlines the need for transition to higher education. Equal rights to education are also related to student welfare. We know how difficult the housing market is for young people, especially in the big cities. Therefore, it is important that the Government has received support for the construction of 1000 new student housing units for next year. More free high school books also lead us a step closer to a fair education. I am also pleased that the centre now sees the value of its own research fund. For me, it has been important to build this fund quickly, so that we provide research in Norway with stable and predictable framework conditions. That the center would like to show its newfound enthusiasm for the research fund by adding another half a billion kroner, I have had no problems with. The main point is that we have more than doubled the fund in six months. That is why I am not completely familiar with the description given by the research effort. The research fund is far ahead of the route. We continue relentlessly to increase the number of scientific posts, and we have also been given a grant scheme for the research efforts of the industry. It is historic when the Workers' Party now designates scientific positions for women. It's about fundamental justice. And if we assume that the mind is roughly equally distributed between the sexes, we also lose valuable resources when we lack women in the highest scientific positions. We've been waiting for years for this to get better by itself. It hasn't happened. That is why we had to resort to political action. For me, it's important to keep a living people's church. The majority join the government's historical commitment to performances. The width of participation in elections to the Church's governing bodies must be strengthened. Today, participation is too narrow. If more people are involved, church bodies will have broader legitimacy and representativeness. That's why I want more participation in the church elections. The Ministry has therefore proposed to allocate funds to actions that contribute to the increase in the roll-out of the 2001 Joint Council elections and has pointed out the possibility of adding it to the Grand elections. I'm glad the majority joins in. The Workers' Party will provide more and more opportunities for training in this country. At the same time, we are committed to improving the quality of education. That's what we're doing. Higher pay for teachers gives us better teachers. More to quality development at school provides better education. More to the reform of skills gives us better skilled labour. Earmarked positions for women give several qualified professors. The working party and the centre parties are very much in agreement in these areas. This promises good for further cooperation. It is also a good promise that we have agreed on these efforts without compromising important welfare arrangements and our international responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1194	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1197	In St. prp. No 1 Appendix No 3 states: ‘As a result of technical failure in the production process, three sections have fallen under cover. 5310 State Loan Fund for Education.’ The three sections cover, inter alia: increase in fees payable by students, both for the transmission of initial requirements for the payment of loans and reminder fees. Even today, these rates are approx. 600 pst. above what is common to take for a similar service in a bank or in another credit institution. In total, this increase is going to be $13 million. kr in additional revenue in the budget. Last year we had just this with the individual's fees that had to be paid. It was said in a TV program that this was unreasonably high. So now it's going to increase further. The Council of State considers it reasonable that the Government should be a figure of priority in terms of such unreasonable rates as it has here, i.e. 600 pst. above what is common?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1209	There is no one who thinks it is nice to increase neither fees, taxes or taxes. But it's now that it's a necessary part of a budget to have that kind of income. Now it is important to stress that the fees to which the representative Evje refers do not affect a single student. These are fees that you only pay after studying, i.e. when you're out of work. So it doesn't hit the students' economy. That's something you pay when you have to pay off your student loan. The most important thing in relation to student loans is that the level of interest on the student loans repaid is the lowest possible. I think that the budget that we have reached together with the centre in the Stortinget has good opportunities to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1218	‘Better Norwegian training best for all’ is the title of an article by Trond Giske in Dagbladet on 7 December. And that's where it says: ‘In order to function in the Norwegian community, it is absolutely necessary to master Norwegian. By making Norwegian training compulsory, we want to give a strong signal to the provider, society and individual immigrants that they are actually supposed to learn Norwegian." The last sentence states that ‘the budget for such measures will be set aside next year’. The Christian People's Party fully agrees with this. But why not follow the same logic for Norwegian children at international schools or Norwegian children abroad? Because for them, the government would not grant money for Norwegian training. There is one sentence on page 102: «The Government proposes to remove the supplementary education scheme from the spring semester 2001». Internationalisation is a concept that we have become better acquainted with in recent years. Norway is, of course, part of this. We've been quite far ahead in terms of travel, going out into the world. This does not apply only to seafarers. Aid workers, munitions, merchants and people in the foreign service have also visited the various hooks of the world over a long period of time. It happens that there are also children on the move. They have been confident that they could receive training in Norwegian and social sciences. Many parents are concerned about how to go with their child while abroad if supplementary education would not be available. This will create difficulties in taking the Norwegian exam and at all events in keeping Norwegian language and culture up to date. That is why we have received many contacts to the Committee from a distance and close by e-mail. It clearly also has the Council of State which answers that this should be resolved during the budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy. Is the Council satisfied that the central parties have increased the budget by 6.9 million? Is there a need for supplementary education, or will we have such suggestions later on?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1235	There is no doubt that I would prefer the budget to be adopted as I had proposed, otherwise I would not have proposed it the way it was proposed. The change that came about was the result of the negotiations and the agreement we reached in the financial situation and in the Education Committee. Having said that, I think it is a little paradoxical that it is almost made a premise that Norwegian children abroad should keep in their Norwegian language and culture, that they have a subsidy scheme. Throughout quite a number of generations, Norwegians have traveled abroad and been very concerned about keeping in their language and culture and their traditions, without having followed that kind of cash support for such schemes. And the comparison with immigrant children in Norway, which is to learn Norwegian, is to a large extent sought. In this case, the appropriate comparison had to be that Pakistan provided grants to Pakistani children in Norway to maintain their Pakistani knowledge. And I'm familiar with no such system, which would then be equivalent. Now we've got a result. I can live with that. But what kind of proposals we come into the later budget must be made on a case-by-case basis. I believe that it must be the responsibility of parents abroad to provide a good part of the tradition, culture and social knowledge that the children should have with them in relation to their country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1244	When the government joined Stoltenberg, it took quite a while to find out who would be responsible for research in this government. It was about two months after the first signal had been sent that the Ministry of Economic Affairs should take responsibility for the research in general. It became significantly less extensive than that, but one of the things that the Minister of Industry was given responsibility for instead of the Minister of Education and Research is the Council of Technology. This has been used by the Minister of Industry to justify a desire to change the composition of the Council of Technology, the Statutes of the Council of Technology and the Secretariat of the Council of Technology. It might be interesting to hear if the Minister of Education would have done the same if the Council of Technology had remained under his responsibility, and in case of what justification he would have used to possibly do the same. The Council of State refers to the escalation of the Research Fund, and he does so in response to the criticism of the operational allocation proposed by the Government. It worries me seriously, and it worries me even more that the committee leader did the same thing. Indeed, it is an explicit condition for the Research Fund, which the Right and the Workers' Party have initiated, that it should be in addition to the basic appropriations allocated otherwise. The report, if I heard correctly, is now actually the bureaucrat opinion of the Ministry of Finance, that this should cover the current basic appropriations. It is in the event of a conflict with the assumptions of the fund. In April 1998, a unanimous increase decided to oblige the Government to take into account university research activities when making university budgets. When we dealt with the research report, the same big thing said that a larger proportion of basic research appropriations should go directly to the institutions. None of these parts were met in the Government's draft budget, and my question to the Council of State is: why were they not met?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1258	There were many questions at once. I'll try to get through it. First of all, the Technology Council. As the representative for Wage correctly says, responsibility for the Council of Technology has been transferred to another Council of State. It is therefore a little difficult to go into detail and tell me whether I agree with my fellow State Council member, as the representative on the pay side asks. I do not know what kind of experience he has with previous governments, but I can stress that I agree with my colleague. The government has one policy in that area. Both in strengthening the role of the Council of Technology by focusing on the opportunities offered by new technologies and their use for society, and at the same time by clarifying the Council's Statute, I support it, and I also support what the Minister of Industry has proposed that the Secretariat of the Council of Technology can be added to NTNU in Trondheim. Now I'm recording a certain debate about the ethical level in Trondheim is high enough for the Technology Council to be placed there. I'm not going to speak out of personal experience, but I think the general ethical level in Trondheim is enough for that to happen. I remember reading that it was the same ethical debate when NTH was added to Trondheim, which was thought to spoil the civil engineering students. So to the research escalation. It is not the case that the stepping up of the Research Fund would be in addition to a full escalation of the research effort in all other areas; it would be part of the overall research effort. That is why I refer to the Research Fund. But not only that, also in relation to the positions and follow-up of the Hervik Committee, the Government has made offensive research efforts. Here's a clear strategy from the Right: Listen to what we're saying, don't look at what we're doing. Because when the right last time agreed with the Bondevik government, for 1999, there was not a single penny left for research. Of course you could have demanded it. It became less research than the Bondevik government had provided. The result of the agreement was cut off in research because there were other priorities. I record that it has changed now, but that was not the case when the policy was actually affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1271	I have a great sense of the rhetoric the Council of State uses to describe the future school, what kind of school he sees himself: a school with active students, a school where students have something to stretch to, etc., etc. This is something I of course agree with. But the question that naturally arises in relation to the budget he himself has presented is: how are his priorities made visible? Because there's nothing there to say about any denominations that would enable the school to achieve the goals that the Council of State describes, in a good, correct and sensible way. My question will then be: does the Council of State feel that the budget is winning in this fight in relation to the budget he has provided, or how does he experience his own situation? It would be a bit nice to get some reflections around in relation to those visions -- visions might have been too ambitious, but at least in relation to those goals -- he's trying to draw for us. So for research. This fund has evolved in the way we feared: here we have a debate on the size of the fund. But it's not the fund's size to be used for research, it's the fund's return. And in the case of the fund, it's just about placing a financial asset in a certain way, and then it's going to have some return on this. So the reality is that if we got up to 18 billion dollars on this fund and that gives a return of 6-7 pst. then we can't count on more than 1 billion dollars in returns from this fund. And if Norway is going up at OECD level in five years, public research must be 15 billion dollars based on today's situation. So, this fund will in any case cover $1 billion of what the public is going to bring in, which is $15 billion. That is why it is not the fund that solves the problem, it is the annual appropriations that solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1280	Yes, I must say I feel like a budget winner. In many areas, we have made a real commitment to education, and we are spending more on education in 2001 than this country has ever done, so far as higher education is concerned, so I can safely call myself budget winnings. We have to remember that some of the things in the budget are that we, among other things. has received a paylift for the teachers, which gives an allowance of approximately NOK 1 billion. I'd say that's a bet in school that's been talked about for years, but that's what we're getting now. It's 100 million. kr more for ICT in school. That means that the school package that the Bondevik government had planned would be about 900 million. NOK, now it's NOK 1 billion. That's what I'll call bet in school. We're going to get 100 million. kr for upper secondary education. That means that during the autumn and the next harvest we get far, perhaps halfway to a free secondary school in terms of educational materials. That's what I'll call a lift for school. I would also like to say that we have been given a municipal economic plan both for the primary municipalities and for the county municipalities with a strong increase in the economy. This means that each municipality around Norway is a little better able to prioritize the school, is a little better able to clean up school buildings and provide proper equipment and resources for the teaching that students will have. We've got 1,000 student homes for 2001. I think that is an important welfare promise for many young people who are struggling to get a place to live in the big cities. In my view, in the area by region, we have received a budget that I can safely support, and which I will characterise as a winner in the 2001 budget struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1289	Let me first say that the debate on the Technology Council is not about ethical competence in Trondheim. Anyone who knows NTNU knows it's real. So this is not a localisation debate, but a debate on the forms in which the technology debate is going to take place in Norway. And there I think I'm talking on behalf of the majority who have promoted the proposal, so let's not banalize the discussion into it. The discussion is about the council, and we get one thing about it. Yes, I agree that the Council of State can feel pride in the number of student homes. He may also feel proud to have followed up some of what he has burned for before he became the Council of State, among others. higher education. But in the comments that have been made to former replicators about the relationship to research, where he says that yes, we have a fund, yes, we have recruitment, I have missed the most expensive post, and that is the commitment that follows to the Research Council and the research institutions, where universities are included. I take note that the Council of State now says it's going to be a pleasure to put the budget out in life, but I was present at a debate where he almost, I think, characterised a university rector's statements as banal brittle when the principal was deeply concerned about the situation. So I just want the Council of State's confirmation that he understands that stepping up Norwegian research is also entirely dependent on the strengthening of basic research institutions in such a way that those who are there have the joy of holding on to what they are about to do, and that it ends up with the situation that competent researchers from abroad turn around because the practical conditions are so bad that they can't be here. I would like to have the Council of State's confirmation that stepping up Norwegian research also means a significant boost for the basic research institutions, including the Research Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1304	It is quite right, as the representative Dørum says, that stepping up research also means investing in basic research, especially in the institutions responsible for it, the universities. That's why we've also added 25 million to the state budget. kr to scientific equipment, nearly 60 million. SEK for new scholarship and postdoctoral positions, and in addition we have the full-year effect of the posts given to us as a result of the conversion funds with which the Workers' Party was given a centre in the budget in force for 2000. What I have called incorrect – I have not used the word ‘spray’ and I will not characterize it at all from here – is when you say that this is the worst university budget ever, as someone has said. First of all, you don't have much historical knowledge to know what it's all about, and then I think you're overdramatizing in such a way as to banish the debate. At least that is how we grant more to the universities in 2001, including in my proposal, than the Bondevik government with the representative Mr Dørum proposed for 2000. So if this is going to compare, this year's university budget is at least not the worst, then it's the second worst if you just compare it. And how the budget that Dørum could be involved in – it's possible he lost the fight in the government, I don't know – that is improved for 2001 by proposing more for 2001 than you suggested for 2000, as suddenly it can become so dramatic, trigger chaos or what kind of characteristic it is you use, I don't understand. One would like to ‘glob’ for one’s interests and influence in order to get more money, which has been obtained — and it is rarely a minister of education who regrets it — but there is a way in which the type of debate and the expression of marginal changes should be used. I fully agree with Dørum's commitment to the universities. I fully agree that basic research has an important, perhaps the most important role to play in our research work in the future. And I think we'll be able to follow up together.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1313	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1316	The draft budget presented by the Labour Party Government was a good budget in all areas. It was a bet on important commons. We took steps to limit the growth of the private sector and to use the means to strengthen the health system, to strengthen education, to strengthen the community economy, etc. So it was a budget that was put forward with a very good and clear working party profile, a budget that we were proud of, and that we are still proud of, because we went in and suggested spending more money in the areas where people most want us to spend more money – on joint solutions, such as school, health, education, municipalities, etc. This has been largely passed on to us in the budget negotiations and in cooperation with the centre. The budget continues to limit the growth of the private sector and implies a good fiscal policy that will ensure that the level of interest rates does not run smoothly. The budget continues to strengthen the common solutions that we want to strengthen. It is in stark contrast to the alternative proposals put forward by the Right and the Advance Party, where they give tax relief to the richest over a low shoe, where they cut aid and where they make large, unsocial cuts in the health pay system. I am sincerely pleased that the two parties have no real influence on this year's government budget. Cooperation and negotiations resulted in a good result, but of course not everyone in the cooperation parties is satisfied, or equally satisfied, with absolutely everything. We could, for example, thought we might have been in addition to the increased appropriations for private schools. There was money we had never asked to get in. And I'm also recording that the center parties could do well without the appropriations for free school books. But this is fair, because in negotiations you have to give and take. And I think all parties have to be able to be satisfied with the final outcome, even though they must have given a little bit to get something else. There will be a good budget even after the negotiations. It shows that it is possible to find good solutions in Stortinget. More money is spent on school and education in 2001 than it has been in 2000. No matter what the representative Rikham says about it, it's the case that we're going to spend more money in school in the year that's coming, than we've done in the previous years, both through the budget of the KUF and not least through the efforts of the local economy. Higher education and research are very important for the future. It is important that we have an offer of higher education across the country. We have invested billions in the intellectual capital we now have at universities and universities across our country. We need to be able to strengthen and renew these environments in order to get the most out of them, and then it is important that we can stimulate the higher education institutions, the universities and the environments that are able to change, which are able to take on the new challenges that are to come. This is the Workers' Party's concern, and I am pleased that the Government has made it through in budgetary negotiations and that they can continue that policy. It is essential that we do our utmost to step up the Norwegian research effort. Now the fund increased by NOK 3 billion. And then the center has become so occupied with this fund that they were previously opposed, that they have increased it by another half a billion. We're very happy about that, and we have no problem agreeing with that. It is very, very nice that there is now a broad uprising in Stortinget about the idea of a research fund. The government also follows up the Hervik Committee by introducing a business support scheme. So it's doing a good job of getting up the Norwegian research effort. But it's important that we move on, so we have to keep on stepping up in the years that are coming. And then it's especially important to look at the four thematic areas that Stortinget has outlined, and that we concentrate a lot of the research efforts on them, so that we don't lubricate too thinly. Finally, since I know who's next speaker, I'm particularly going to be allowed to stress the importance of putting more emphasis on marine research. I think very much of the business life of the future and the value creation of the future are within that sector, so I would like to stress in particular the importance of strengthening the marine research environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1333	The future national welfare will depend on how we replace the decline in oil revenue in the coming years. The uptake of the value creation potential of the fisheries and aquaculture industries will be of central importance for the possibilities of maintaining the level of welfare in Norway. Fisheries and aquaculture are knowledge-based industries, and targeted research and development efforts in the marine sector are an important prerequisite for triggering the potential for value creation in industry. I feel that there is a broad political consensus on the potential of the fisheries and aquaculture industries. I am pleased that the Committee has taken note of the important and forward-looking research carried out in the marine sector. The government has proposed a real increase of 15 million in the budget. to the Institute of Marine Research, which is mainly intended to strengthen marine research, both through increased R & D efforts and through the development of infrastructure. The draft budget further proposed increased appropriations for the Nutrition and Fisheries Research Institute and proposed increased funding to the Norwegian Research Council. The Research Council, following a budgetary agreement, receives an increase of 30.5 million from 2000 to 2001. kr. Today, only parts of the marine potential are being exploited. The sea contains unique marine raw materials in the form of proteins, enzymes, biologically active molecules, etc. which may be used in industrial production. For the Government, the aim is to stimulate Norwegian research environments to search for new and exciting products and principles in the marine environment and to accelerate the increased exploitation of Norway’s unique opportunities for innovation and business development. There is also an unused potential in marine by-products. Today, by-products mainly concern feed, flour, silage and human consumption. The main challenge will be to raise the use of by-products from the feed market to the so-called ingredient market. In pharmacy, health care, cosmetics, etc. a high-paying market exists for ingredients which can be extracted from marine by-products. Much of the value creation in the fisheries and aquaculture industries must necessarily take place along the coast. The new marine industries will be knowledge-intensive, with high skills requirements. This should lead to a new type of coastal workplace, which will create new and exciting opportunities for academics as well. An example of this is the company Maritex in Sortland, which develops new products of high value on the basis of fresh fish stocks. Labour shortages are likely to be a problem in the years to come. It is therefore essential that research efforts also address issues such as technology development and automation. The draft budget reflects the commitment to technological development by the research institutions NORCONSERV and SINTEF Fisheries and Aquaculture for the first time receive basic appropriations from the Ministry of Fisheries budget. The funds are channelled through the Norwegian Research Council. The value creation in Norwegian seafood production depends on our being able to sell the products on foreign markets. Focusing on safe food is becoming increasingly important for our main export markets. Consumers shall be able to be confident that the products offered are safe and manufactured. This requires a well-developed inspection and surveillance apparatus. In the budget proposal, the Government has proposed to return to the Storting with a cost framework and progress plan for the construction of a new research vessel in the revised national budget in 2001. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee assumes that the Government will present, as soon as possible and at the latest in the revised national budget in 2001, a proposal to ensure that the construction of a new research vessel is launched as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1356	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1359	A small but important part of the Committee's budget for the Ministry of Fisheries is the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research. In most areas, there is a big deal. I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Minister for Fisheries is present, because, as he himself was involved, there are several aspects of the budget that we are dealing with today, which have an impact on the development of maritime industries and on fisheries. In that context, there are two questions I would like to ask the Council of State. The first is, what will be the consequences of the release that is now taking place when it comes to the construction of a new ocean exploration vessel? It is noted that this may lead to additional costs both on the construction side and with the further operation of the two old vessels. I would also like to address this with research and training as a tool in the fisheries policy and in the development of the fishing industry we have in Norway, both at sea and on land. I would like to have the Council of State's assessment of, and possibly views of, a future recruitment to the fishing profession. What is the level of education and education provision and what is the need for all levels in the future? Is the area where something has to be done to allow Norwegian fishing industry on the sea and on land to continue to be among the most important in the world? Because, as the Council of State itself was involved, there is a fantastic potential here, and it might be good to find out whether there are special challenges that both the Committee and the Storting must be aware of, even when it is a market day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1368	As the representative Løvik had in mind, there is a high potential in the aquaculture industry that can only be exploited if we focus on research and education. And we're doing that in the budget that's been put forward. With regard to the issue of the marine research vessel, we should be aware that one concept with a single cost framework and one specific design was initially presented. In retrospect, late in the budgetary process, we have been made aware that the bidding round has resulted in much higher prices on this ship than could be expected. It will be a matter of procedure to verify that the existing assumptions are correct and necessary in order to obtain a good sea research vessel for the University of Bergen and for the Marine Research Institute. And we will. In this respect, it will of course also be a moment to try to minimize the possible adverse effects of not getting started quickly enough on the construction of this vessel. So let's think about this. In terms of training as an instrument in the fishing industry, we have a satisfactory recruitment to the industry. At times there has been a lack of research into fisheries vocational education, both at a higher level and at a higher level. At the moment, it's better, it's actually a noticeable change in search both for basic courses of nature use and for aquaculture training, and it's affordable. But very much of the challenge of getting people to take such education rests on the social partners. You have to get a deal on board the boats, where you get a payoff in order to actually take the formal education that you should have in order to run a difficult and demanding profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1381	First of all, I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Fisheries is a sort of Minister for Research and takes the time to be in the Stortinge during the Education Committee's debate on the budget. That was also the case last year, and I think that is very good. This shows that this government, like the previous one, really prioritises this area. Now, when I am the case rapporteur for these fields that the Council of State, Gregussen, has submitted, I still have to say that I was very disappointed when, in the proposition, I saw that there was no progress in the construction of a new research vessel. We got the first appropriation last year, as we've heard, and as we know, and it was a great deal of satisfaction with that. And it's urgent. I also refer to the position of the nutrition committee, which highlights the importance of getting started, and that one has to expect that in the event of a postponement, it will only be even more expensive – that is, increased costs will be incurred. I would like now to have the Minister of Fisheries' assessment from his professional point of view, and ask him a little more reason why it has happened in the last round that the Government is now setting aside these funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1388	I agree with the representative of Tingelstad that research is important for fisheries. Therefore, it is quite natural to be present and listen to this debate, which premises on all our work on research, and research is an important part of the work of the Ministry of Fisheries. So I'd say it's not quite right that there's no progress in getting us a new marine research vessel. It is progress, but this work – including the bidding round – has provided the preliminary result that we can see that this vessel is becoming significantly more expensive than what was foreseen. Then we have to go back and see if the prerequisites for the construction of this ship are the same as they have to be in order for us to get a decent ship. Here we need to be aware that the new thing about this ship is that it will carry equipment both for marine research and for what the University of Bergen needs, for example. to geology. We have to look at the dimensions of this. For boats it is such that the more heavy equipment you have to carry on board, the more buoyancy you have to have, and the bigger the boat you have to have, and it is clear that this needs to be assessed in a context. With regard to the issue of ageing and the funds proposed to be withdrawn from the budget, this is a technical matter on the basis that we can see that the construction of the ship is not under way this year. If you had been sure that you got started, and had the cards been distributed in another way, it would have been equally automatic to leave the same amount standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1397	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1400	In the budget setting, the Labour Party attaches great importance to the vision that everyone should have equal opportunities for education regardless of their place of residence, age, gender and social background. That's why it's right that someone is now looking at how our higher education system works. In the districts, higher education institutions are important not only in education but also as centres of excellence in other areas. It is true that in this way, universities become part of society locally and regionally, where there are opportunities to contribute to a common commitment both to institutions and to society around them. In this context, it is likely that some schools are too closed to the outside world. It is necessary to contribute to opening up and providing universities with the place in society and in education for which they have the potential, but of course it costs money. The budget agreement means that universities are given a promise, and it is important to remember in higher education in this context. At the same time, we need to be able to see the opportunities that lie in the development of study services linked to regional and local trends. At that time, the universities must also have the opportunity to turn around so that they provide an offer that is desired, both by students and others. Therefore, it is also important that engineering training at HINT is continued and seen in conjunction with the other opportunities for development that lie here. Another welcome point is linked to the university libraries and remote loans. It's just two weeks since we saw the center parties wildly moving away from the free principle in the public libraries. When today’s setting is so clear that the principle of free is to be established, it is an important signal to prevent further eroding of this principle. Equality has been a high priority case for the Workers' Party. It is, of course, because it has to do with fundamental human rights, and that is why the Workers' Party is so clearly signaling both the will and the ability to address this problem in terms of education as well. It has long been used as an example of progress in gender equality that the majority of students in higher education are girls. There have been no similar results in colleges working in higher education. And that's not because you've been allowed to ignore this in silence. For several years, there has been an ongoing debate on why more girls do not enter academic positions, and what can be done, if necessary, to provide more access. Now we finally have a government that has the ability to take hold of it. I record that it does not happen without a certain debate also within the educational environments. Not everyone is as happy about this, and as usual, the threat of new challengers can be an equally obvious reason for what the more pronounced academic debates arise. Now the Workers' Party wants to target more jobs towards girls, and I'm not least doubt that it will help to expand the perspectives and thus increase the quality of academic environments as well. We've seen that in every other profession, and we'll probably see that here as well. Human rights are also at the heart of the Falstad Centre – a centre to preserve the history of the Centre, research and disseminate it, so that it is not possible to forget what happened to one of the worst prison camps we had in Norway. There is a reason to be satisfied with the result that is now present in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1416	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1419	I would like to touch case no. 3, which is linked to the budget. There is a proposal from the staging representatives Torbjørn Andersen, Steinar Bastesen, Vidar Kleppe, Terje Knudsen and myself on the development of Norwegian weather radar networks. The Committee supports the proposal that has been presented, which we think is very pleasant. Weather radar is an important tool in modern surveillance. Weather radar provides greater safety for shipping, aircraft, oil installations and road traffic. Norway’s only radar operating is in Asker – before the fall of 1999, a weather radar was built in Hägebostad in West Agder. In comparison, Sweden has eleven radars, Finland six and Denmark four. So there's no coverage from Lindesnes to Kirkenes. Compared to these countries, Norway has the most dramatic coastline, which is very long. An investment in security will benefit society, and a fully developed weather radar network is required. With the development of a complete Norwegian weather radar network, short-term forecasts up to six hours will be significantly improved and it will be possible to calculate with much greater accuracy the rainfall falling over a given area. A radar is a unique means of observing precipitation up to 25 miles away, as well as wind in the catchment areas. It is easy to follow and alert e.g. strong showers or fronts with high rainfall and strong wind. A weather radar provides continuous and detailed information for its coverage. In developing a Norwegian weather radar network, important societal sectors will achieve a significant economic advantage. Civil and military aviation are provided with significantly safer two-time alerts, providing safer planning. Road offices have access to river basin data that enable them to plan their efforts far better than they do today. Flood preparedness is strengthened through safer information on precipitation. The power plant industry is given a better basis for predicting the magazine situation. Agriculture is receiving better decision-making support. Fishing and other maritime activities improve the short-term alerting of severe weather systems with strong wind in coastal areas. Other sectors such as construction or sports/recreational will have an interest in weather radar networks. As I said, this affects many. National civil protection is strengthened by much easier follow-up to the movement and downfall of hazardous emissions into air, such as radioactive discharges. Weather information that can prevent the loss has an invaluable impact. Even relatively small part-costs related to loss or other accidents have significant economic consequences. There are well over 100 weather radars in Europe. More than half of these are modern doppler radars that can measure wind in addition to precipitation. Some countries have built an impressive chain of modern weather radars, for example. Sweden, Spain, Germany and Italy. Norway with its coastline must be in the same class as these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1436	Society faces a major challenge in halting the increase in the number of people of working age who are put on social security because they are unable to cope with the job they have had or because they do not enter the labour market for health reasons. For most people, leaving an active professional life, and then entering into a passive social security life, is a very strong impression. In particular, this is an unreal situation for those who believe that they still have a residual capacity to contribute to society. Often it is a relatively small measure of organisation so that people can re-enter the labour market. This is where education and training are given as an important form of organisation. I record that the Committee has specifically mentioned the Krokede vocational school at Bergen in the position, and that the allocation to this school is increasing. This, I think, is positive, because this school combines training, work training and rehabilitation in a good way, and it can show that very many people return to work after such a stay. I think it is important to develop more of these offers in the future. In this debate, I also need to say something about the huge shortage of dentists in parts of the country – a situation that only worsens year after year. When large parts of District Norway are missing dental practitioners, this suggests that there is a need to extend educational capacity. The place of education plays a major role in where dentists, and others, continue to work – we call that the ‘leaching effect’. We see this as a good example by the fact that in the areas close up to the odontological teaching places in Oslo and Bergen, the dental deficiency is low and the density is high. With the increasing distortion of dentistry in the country as a whole, it is obvious that we need to receive full dental training in Tromsø. I hope that this can be realized quickly, so that people across the country can get the dental care they are entitled to. I think it must be reasonable that next year's budget takes that into account. We cannot live with a situation where both children, pregnant women and others do not receive the dental treatment they are entitled to. All the inhabitants of this country must get it once we have made such an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1449	I allow myself to be the representative from Agder who is given the opportunity to thank for the committee's allocation of 500,000 kroner to the Foundation Archive. It was former St. Osmund Faremo from Aust-Agder who got the idea and took the initiative to start work on establishing this foundation. Many of us know his history and his work and dissemination of knowledge about human rights, freedom and peace – against oppression, injustice, racial discrimination, violence and crime. Following the decision of the Stortinget, the old state archive in Kristiansand was transferred free of charge to the Archives Foundation. The purpose of the Foundation was to establish an Information Centre on World War II and to create a power center for forward-looking peacekeeping and conflict resolution. On the basement floor, the Gestapo quarter of the wartime will be recreated. That's how Osmund Faremo wanted it, and that's how the building will be exploited. The building is currently undergoing rehabilitation and will be ready to open on the Day of Peace on 8 May 2001. Much of the activity will be targeted at the school. It is assumed that approx. 3 500 students each year will visit the Gestapo neighbourhood itself, where one can also meet representatives of large humanitarian organisations, who will receive support in the building. We all have a responsibility for our common future, and the voices of the archive can and should be an important measure in the mission to civilised relations with our fellow human beings," said Osmund Faremo. This is how the Archives Foundation can help to communicate the history of the years 1940-45, too much indicates that awareness-raising work for human rights, peace and freedom is more necessary than ever before. Here, the Archives Foundation can play an important role, and in collaboration with the Villa Grande and the Falstad Centre, as the Committee writes in its setting. Today's allocation makes this possible. I assume that the government in next year's budget will discuss the budget on which State aid to the Foundation Archive will be spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1464	Minority Parliamentarism has its own costs, including: the cost of sometimes taking decisions for which there is no real majority in the Grand Duchy. It became quite clear last year that there was no real majority in Stortinget to spend 100 million. to establish a lending scheme for textbooks in secondary school. Today's debate has made it even more clear that there is no such real majority in the Storting. More specifically, there is one single batch that seems to be a reasonable way to apply 100 million. kr on, and that is the Working Party. I just note this and I will assume that there is reason to hope that this use of funds remains an episode. Because it's right that the representative Marit Tingelstad of the Center Party pointed to in a line change, it's not possible to find a single person working in high school who thinks this is a sensible arrangement, nor are people who are faithful followers of the government party. It worries me a little bit that the Council of State explicitly confirmed that he regards himself as a budget winner. There is no doubt that we have a council of states with significant political ambitions, but I must say that I should have wished that his ambitions as the Council of State were on the verge of his general political ambitions, for I think that the list is kept apprehensively low if the result he presents this time is to be regarded as a win cause for Education-Norway. The Council of State did not answer – he was so concerned about his role as a trouser in reply that he did not have time – on the explicit question I asked about how he looked at orders submitted by Stortinget, and on the other hand, when it was decided that a new resource allocation system should be set up to meet the university's research tasks, and on the other hand what was agreed when we dealt with the research communication, namely that a greater proportion of the research allocations should go directly to the basic research institutions. The only nominal increase proposed by the Council of State was paradoxically the opposite, namely an increase in the proportion going to the Research Council, and it was more than offset by a rather drastic cut for universities. Therefore, I would like to repeat the question: How does the Council of State view the mission of Stortinget? And does he believe that he has followed the mission of Stortinget at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1473	It shall be a pleasure to implement this budget, as the Council of State said in its statement. That's good to hear. At the same time, there are some fundamental priorities for the future of this budgetary agreement on which the central parties have been involved and on which the Council of State takes note. The Christian People's Party will continue to increase research efforts in the years to come, including the commitment to basic research. It's made an impression in this debate that the centre doesn't want the research fund. The research fund is mentioned in the Voksenås statement, but it is quite right that the Right Party and the Workers' Party were too impatient to wait for a review of the research report, so that they promoted this proposal before it arrived. But late-drum has always been for us to have a research fund. Furthermore, I agree with the representative of the Wage Reminder in relation to the use of the Fund itself, for the Fund must not replace research that would normally have taken place at universities and colleges or through the Norwegian Research Council. Thus, the questions raised by the representative for Wage in his last post are a proper reminder to the Council of State. The second priority of the budgetary agreement is the desire to renew the youth stage and follow up the actions of the recruitment message. This means that development work in secondary and secondary schools must be further stimulated. The third element of the budget agreement is, of course, ensuring the economic conditions of the colleges and private colleges. The last moment is that the Church must be given resources to carry out its task in a good way. Here we are very excited about the follow-up with which the government is going to come back with in terms of baptismal training. By noticing these priorities, the current government can create a climate of cooperation. The representative of Skarbøvik challenged the government in his contribution to the lack of housing for disabled students. It didn't answer the councils. Disability is prevented today from taking higher education because there are so few well-organised housing for people with disabilities. Here, interaction in Trondheim has found solutions that do not increase costs abnormally. My question to the Council of State is: How does he evaluate this situation, and will the Council of State address this with the interaction, which builds student homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1492	I'll just briefly comment on some of the things that have come up after I had the word the first time. First of all, the dental training in Tromsø: we're going to get back to that. It is now under assessment in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and is a matter that we want to look at. So to the lending arrangement. Yes, the representative may have made employees in high school who are dissatisfied with the scheme. I still have that for good, but it is possible that it is. Wages say it's hard to find a single employee who thinks it's a good plan. I want to answer the following: I think it should be difficult to find a single student or a single parent in high school who would have had the Right Policy in this field rather than the Labour Party. Our scheme saved many thousands of students for $1,000 a year in the fall, and we save them for $20,000 for the next harvest. It's an important step towards a fairer school. So to the issue of the resource allocation system and also how a larger part can go directly to the basic institutions. As the representative of Wage is probably familiar with, we have a comprehensive evaluation of the Norwegian Research Council and will look at how the scheme has worked. In addition, we will present a major report during the spring, during which the entire higher education funding system will be reviewed. It will be a quite natural and important part of the big message to go through these methods of allocation. So the lack of housing for people with disabilities. I want to look at how, in the context of the 2001 building commitments, we can also help to improve the provision of facilities for people with disabilities. It is important, in order to create a fair education, that there should not be a lack of housing that prevents the disabled from taking place in higher education institutions. Then I would also like to say that I think that this debate, like the one I actually experienced after the educational policy statement in ours, shows that the great, dramatic political divides do not exist in this Parliament. We're discussing whether the level of funding should be like that or not, but it's actually relatively small issues in relation to the maybe very bitter and deep educational policy divisions that have been in the past. Of course, there are differences, and of course there is more in the ideological and school educational field, and we find differences, perhaps primarily between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the Centre and the Workers' Party on the other. I just want to comment in the end that I record that the Progress Party will use punishment, retrial and expulsion to create peace and discipline in school. What happens in the Progress Party by day may well show that more use of expulsion does not exactly create peace. Maybe you should try to get used to punishment and rehab?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1509	I needed to clarify a little thing after Inge Wage Posts in the case of free school books. It is true that we have not opted for the model for which the Workers' Party has agreed, namely a loan scheme. We have voted in favour of a grant scheme, and we have also included it in our draft budget – so that it is clear. We need to lower the costs for students with the purchase of teaching material – that is important – and in this respect we have invested 195 million. kr, based on the calculation that we got from the ministry over what the average cost of a student is. With this scheme, we will cover the costs of high school students through a grant scheme, because it is an important principle that high school should be free of charge. But what should worry us equally is the development we have in primary school, which I was also involved in in my post, where we see a tendency to parents and students have to cover increased costs – what we call propensities. Two years ago, we got an overview from the department, which showed that the proportion of primary school graduates was about. One hundred million. kr in total. There is reason to believe that these costs have increased in recent years, so that parents and children in primary school pay shares that go well over 100 million. kr overall, and then we are moving in a direction where primary school is no longer free. It is a serious matter, such a serious matter that the Council of State should also grasp it, and we should get a new overview that shows how much the excess is now in primary school, so that we can put an end to a very unfortunate development, a harmful development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1518	No salary has spoken twice and is given the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1521	I asked the Council of State if he thought that the draft budget he had submitted was consistent with the overall leadership of the Stortinget regarding the university budgets. To that end, the Council of State refers to the evaluation of the Norwegian Research Council and to the treatment of the suspension of the Mjøs Committee. That's a strange answer. In fact, the Norwegian Research Council has also emphasised clearly and unequivocally that, following the Research Council’s assessment, a greater proportion of the basic research appropriations should go directly to the institutions. So all the actors in this field agree on this, the Storting has said that the Storting wants the same thing, but the Council of State makes a proposal that is exactly mirrored. This is a slight increase in the Research Council and dramatic cuts in the institutions. I have still not received an answer as to whether the Council of State considers this to be in accordance with the mission that Stortinget has given.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1528	It is obvious that Odd Einar Dørum's line to me earlier today, where the term "formation" was a bearer element, is more important than one could predict. This is particularly evident when you hear the Council of State’s outings against the Progress Party from this pulpit a short time ago. In this context, we are once again back to the fact that, on behalf of the Progress Party, I have repeatedly raised the fact that the Workers' Party wants to make it essential to clarify a school policy that is more about organisational issues than the learning that takes place in the dialogue between adults and children, teachers and students. Once I'm here – something I didn't intend to be, to draw out debates, you don't have to – I'm going to come up with something else that was also claimed here, by a representative from the Workers' Party. Equality has long been a high priority of the Workers' Party, it is constantly said, most recently by the representative Alstad, who used this moment as a kind of alibi. Then it is with great amazement that I see that there is very little willingness to make arrangements for women students at Norway's veterinary high school to work in poultry buildings when they train for smokers. These buildings have been adopted and designed quite many years ago, but the Workers' Party, which is so concerned with equality and women's opportunities to do the best, has not found the money to get work going in all these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1536	It was part of the summary of the Council of State that made me take the floor. I understand that the Council of State has issued a Memorandum of Understanding on where the political divisions will go. I take note of that. But where they go in relation to the Left Party, in fact, depends on the concrete policy that is going to be promoted during the spring. This will show how the debate is, both in terms of university position and the role of basic research, and in terms of all other important issues. Since the Council of State summed up on behalf of others other than themselves and its own party, I thought it was necessary to have this little footnote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-12.ana.ud2017e1545	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 3. The President will now cancel this morning's meeting. [[See pages 1203 and 1248]] The new meeting will be set at 9.30 a.m. 18, and then we start with case number. 2nd@item: inlistbox
