ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e39	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e44	I suggest Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e49	Marit Nybakk is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e61	When Odelstinget today adopts a new law on occupational retirement provision, a final line is set for a legal work that has been in progress for many years. Adjournment of the Financial Committee to Ot.prp. No 47 for the 1998-99 Entrepreneurship Act involves a number of important changes in the Government’s approach. In my view, the most positive changes are compared to the Government's proposal to open up investment funds in defined benefit collective pension schemes, to embellishment of the break-down requirement with continued access to accrued and retirement pension payments, and to provide for tax deductions for fixed-rate gross schemes for municipal activities. Another positive result is that a common definition of cohabitation in occupational retirement provision and in other schemes, such as occupational and group life insurance, is to be explored. There are also some changes related to the inclusion and definition of an old-age pension that involve clear administrative simplifications. Compared to the Selfig Committee's 1998 investigation, the following important embellishments have also been made in the legal work: There is no increase in the minimum vesting time for full retirement. It's set to 30 years. I would also like to mention that people with long-term education and care leave have the opportunity to receive full occupational pension. There is no introduction of complex and costly care provision schemes. As a result of entering the building for 30 years, there has been no need for a health pool, such as that. was suggested in the welfare communication. Provision is also made for freedom of choice for taxable benefits in kind to be included in the pension basis or one. It can then be agreed between the employer and the employee. Of other important aspects of the suspension, I would like to mention a positive attitude towards a combination of deposit and benefit schemes in the same enterprise, a unanimous political objective that more people should receive occupational pensions, and that flexibility and freedom of choice in the design of the schemes are important in this respect. The Committee also stresses the importance of introducing a deposit pension from 1 January 2001 and the fact that the Government promotes the law on deposit-based schemes during the spring, in April has been promised. It is important also to facilitate increased mobility in the labour market, and it is considered that a general rule on inclusion in occupational pension schemes from the first day onwards, as is now provided for in the new law, will contribute to this. The increase in the administrative costs of admission from the first day is reduced by requiring a period of 12 months for entitlement to earned pension and related premium reserves. Many are surprised when they hear that only 35 pst. private sector employees are associated with occupational pension schemes under the Tax Act. Thus, a clear majority of private sector employees, almost 1 million employees, stand without occupational pension schemes. It is an objective that more people should be offered a corporate pension as a complement to the benefits of popular security. For example, when you have: When comparing the level of public sector earnings with that in the private sector, it should also be possible to have in the public sector gross schemes, i.e. automatic pensions in addition to the benefits of the population, which means that almost 1 million workers do not have in the private sector. It has also been part of the balance in the Committee on Entrepreneurship Law, as opposed to the number of people who will be offered an occupational pension. And there are clear contexts: If you make the corporate pension scheme expensive, even fewer workers will be employed than the 35 pst. that currently have defined benefit schemes are offered. This is why the work done by the Committee has tried to bring about a balance here. In some areas we have succeeded, in others not fully. I think it is positive that the Committee's general comments state, and as unanimous, that the Committee considers it an objective to offer more people a retirement pension and that the Committee therefore considers it important that legislation does not appear rigid or costly, as this would weaken the interest of undertakings in setting up occupational pension schemes for their employees. The fact that the majority of the Committee then takes the step of retrospective refusal of closure, which contributes to the inclusion of all workers in the private sector who are covered by an occupational pension scheme in the scheme from 20 years, and to the inclusion of all those with 20 pst. the position to be included in the scheme is not entirely consistent with this reasoning. The point is that in the public sector you have to have at least 35 pst. the proportion of employment to be covered by public occupational pension schemes. In the private sector, 20 pst are automatically included. position. This will lead to considerable costs for business, in the billions class, including: NHO shown in different calculations. The point is that of course most people think it is nice to be covered by that type of occupational pension scheme. But if the result is that even fewer people in the private sector get there because you feel it is too costly to set up the scheme, you have done yourself a bear service. In my view, it is also unreasonable to set up schemes in the private sector – which are already less expensive under the occupational pension scheme than in the public sector. I then aim, as I have also mentioned, at 35 p.m. in the public sector. as a minimum requirement in relation to reporting, while adding up to 20 pst in that scheme. the proportion of the post. If you have it, you have to enter the occupational pension scheme. Fortunately, we have had with the government parties a postponement of the implementation of the 20 year and 20 pst regime. for 7 years. I'm glad. It also gives business a reasonable opportunity to change and take it inwards. It is important that the changes we have made, and that the legitimacy of the occupational pension schemes in society generally increases, not least in business, because at first there was a strong criticism that there was an old-fashioned legislation that was presented and that there was no invitation for more people to have that kind of arrangements. Through the adjustments I mentioned in the introduction, I think we have taken the brunt of part of that criticism, and that there should not now be strong reasons for not choosing performance-based schemes where you already have it. And for the one million employees who do not currently have occupational pension schemes under the tax law, the system of defined contribution schemes must also be a great opportunity. I look forward to the Minister of Finance making the bill that more people in the private sector can also be offered this. In the future, if no more in the private sector are introduced into occupational pension schemes under the tax law, there is a large class distinction between those in the public sector who have occupational pension schemes — good gross schemes — and those in the private sector who have occupational retirement provision and those who are completely excluded. That is why this is an important work involving many people and which is also essential in relation to future distribution policies. Here it is also worth noting that the Workers' Party is no longer opposed to defined contribution pension schemes within the tax regime, as was the case in the past. Furthermore, the Committee points out that the follow-up of NOU 1998:10, Funding of population protection, and NOU 1998:19, Flexible retirement, may involve changes that have implications for the design of occupational pension rules. Furthermore, the Committee takes the view that the Government will return to any need for changes in the law on occupational retirement provision in the proposal on defined contribution schemes. As I mentioned, it opens up for investment funds in a joint comment by the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party. This is a very important matter. The prohibition is removed, and it must be treated as a separate case at the same time as deposit-based schemes, which will be dealt with by the Storting later this year. However, there will be a majority for an investigative mission to the Government, with a clear message that the bulk of the population wants investment funds also for collective defined benefit schemes. Collective pension schemes currently represent administrative capital of the order of DKK 300 billion. It is important that this pension resource is managed in the best possible way, in accordance with the needs and wishes of the individual customer. The Committee has therefore agreed that investment funds should be opened up for both new and existing contracts relating to defined benefit pensions, i.e.: occupational retirement provision. The Committee cannot see that the ministry has presented serious arguments for its proposal to ban investment powers. The Ministry’s argument is essentially that this has not been allowed until now, which in itself cannot be attributed to a notable weight. The Committee trusts that the Ministry and the Council of State will provide the necessary legal and regulatory technical follow-up to the Committee's intention at this point in relation to the proposal for a contribution pension. In this way, it should be borne in mind by the Council of State that the Committee, including the central parties, has stressed that many consultative bodies are opposed to the proposal of the Committee and the Ministry that occupational pension schemes cannot be included as investment-chosen life insurance and that ‘there is a lot of talk about giving access to investment funds in defined benefit schemes, and are in favour of such access’. Fortunately, it's also the center parts. As I mentioned, the so-called crack point requirement softens up. The government's proposal for a reduced pension for pensions above 9 G is being remedied. The bending point for which the Storting enters is 100 pst. performance above 6 G and 70 pst. of wages and salaries between 6 G and 12 G. This is a political compromise that means that most defined benefit schemes in the labour market are not affected, and I think there are many who are happy about it. A number of organisations reacted very negatively to the introduction of break points, to which the Government provided. I think the government proposal was too tight, and it went further than the majority did in the welfare report in relation to what benefits you can get in terms of wages over 6 G, and especially over 9 G. If adopted, it would involve some form of fiscal tightening of the salary levels affected by the amendment, i.e. levels between 6 G and 12 G. I would also like to point out that the break-down point proposal could have reduced the interest of businesses in setting up pension schemes, because pension schemes will become less suitable as a means of managing and providing key personnel, which will often be the most competitive. Through that compromise, intermediaries and the management of businesses should also be interested in the establishment of occupational pension schemes under the tax law. The legitimacy of the arrangement will increase, and one will not see in the same way an increasing interest in establishing arrangements only for management outside the tax law. So I think this is a good compromise. And when the entire committee is behind, it also shows that there is great predictability associated with this. It's not a tax duty to make sure people get more than 70 pst. compensation for previous salaries, at least not at levels above 9 G. So this is a compromise I think everyone can live with. It also opens up time-limited and phase-out benefits in relation to what was proposed by the Government, i.e. status quo at this point. So one of the central points of the Government's arrangement was a mandatory requirement for lifelong performance. This proposal has been rejected and opens up to time-limited and phased-out payments, but still for at least 10 years, as is also the case under the rules in force. There were several indications that the proposal for mandatory lifelong performance was very rigid and, not least, costly. I think a forced lifelong benefit would have resulted in fewer people getting an offer, and less flexibility in the scheme, so that the one million people who don't have an occupational pension today could have become more. In this way, it is also interesting to note that the trade movement, with LO at its head, has actually gone in order that the law should not become too square, among other things. at these points, because there were fears of a development where only the richest private enterprises could afford to set up the kind of pension schemes. The Government proposed that AFP pensioners should lose the right to be a member of the company's occupational pension scheme. In the national budget for 2000, the Government said, among other things: the following: ‘The Government recognises that the main problem with an increasing dependency burden in Norway today is linked to the increasing level of early retirement in recent years, in particular through the disability pension scheme of the people’s rights and the AFP scheme.’ And on the other hand, ‘The government believes that a key challenge in the future is to avoid a similar decline in the participation of older people, which has been experienced by many other countries. The trend of increased early retirement may not continue.» As an important element to address this challenge, the Government of the national budget presented the proposal in Ot. pp. No 47, as we are dealing with here today, that it should no longer be permitted to maintain membership of pension schemes for persons receiving early retirement, so-called a gift pension. On the right, the Government supported this case during the examination of the national budget, and together with the Progress Party, we support the Government during the examination of the corporate pension law here today. But what do the center parties do? Yeah, they got cold feet. In the setting, the central parties write that, in agreement with the Government, they will go away from the Government's proposals and indicate that they will instead set up a senior policy forum. The small run-in to action that we saw from the Government in the national budget has thus been killed, and the government has once again reduced a sample instead of addressing the problem. Let me remind you that the proposal that the centre parties will now investigate instead of adopting has already been investigated. It was the early retirement committee that, in NOU 1998:19, flexible retirement, suggested just this. It is also worth noting that both the OECD and the IMF in their recently published reports on the Norwegian economy warn against exactly what the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties are doing, namely using the pension schemes to achieve wage moderation. Both the OECD and the IMF strongly warn that the short-term benefits of such a policy will be overshadowed by costs in the longer term. It is alarming and sin, as I said, that it is only the Progress Party and the Right that support the Government's proposal on this important issue. It is also alarming that the majority, the Labour Party and the Centre parties only grant exemptions for AFP pensioners. So only those who are so lucky to be included in the AFP will have the possibility of continuing early retirement. For other workers this shall be prohibited. This further reinforces the injustice between those covered by the AFP and those not. The centre parties and the Workers' Party have thus provided for a system which is very unwise in the long-term economic perspective and is, in addition, unfair. For the purposes of the costs incurred by the undertakings, as referred to above, an adjustment period of seven years from the entry into force of the Act for the fulfilment of the conditions shall be taken into account. That makes sense. It also provides for a common definition of cohabitants who are unanimous and who are similar to that of the IPA scheme — individual pension agreements — but who differ from the consensual definition of occupational and group life insurance. There is also another point where the government parties depart from the Government's arrangements, and it is linked to the government's gross pensions. The Government’s proposal states that it is felt that any change in popular security should have an impact on everyone, that is. that after the current system of general government gross schemes, any restrictions on the benefits of the public interest, either through the level of performance or under-regulation of the basic amount, will not have an effect on those employed in the public sector, while under-regulation of the basic amount will have an effect on those who have private-sector defined benefit schemes. This would be settled by the Government, and it says that there should in the long run be equal rules for these two arrangements. Very reasonable! But what do the center parts of the setting do? One runs away from the Government's desire to do this and does not adhere to the Government's long-term goal of equalizing the system for these two arrangements. It's also regrettable, and it's actually very unfair to operate on two different schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e143	It's been asked for lines. The President will propose the opening of a succession of lines limited to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and the members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e148	There are many things that Right has done well in this setting, and we are some with them in a lot. But in some areas, we're deeply disunited and it shows the big difference. I have to say that when I hear Børge Brende, I get the impression that he is terrified that employees at all should have any influence or any right. It's clear when he talks about billions of payments for business if it's now going to be possible for the 20-year-olds to start looking up rights in a pension scheme. If you add 20 pst. position, should be allowed to participate in a pension scheme, it will be billions of payments for business! It's obvious where you have your sympathy. I have to say that I think it would be very nice if we could say that 20-year-olds should be allowed to start ignition, and that all those part-time workers who have almost no possibilities – it turns out they don't have arrangements today – can start ignition when they have a 20 pst. position. And then a lot of time comes back to the AFP scheme, because it seems right is unfair. I actually thought there's a huge advantage that people who are extinct at the age of 62 can get rid of retirement. I think it's a worthwhile ending in working life for people who have had a hard time doing it, and it's the agreement between employees and employers that makes them able to do it. So right here is trying to say that if you do that, at least you don't have to be allowed to raise pension points until one is 67. I don't think it's worth it, and I have to ask what a principle has against AFP, except that one doesn't like to take care of their employees' interests because one is so busy with the interests of business. But I think that the business community actually thinks it's very good to have employees who can stay for a long time in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e155	First, I would like to return to the representative of Frøiland that, through the work of the committee, we have had constructive cooperation on many points and come up with good solutions. I was a little surprised when the representative of Frøiland now claimed that the Right is against the rights of employees at all. It's just to be incredible to say something like that, because you can also see in the new law on occupational retirement provision that employees' rights, even in the right-hand context, are significantly strengthened. The right has, among other things: proposed to workers with 35 pst. the employment rate shall be notified in occupational pension schemes. Today it's 50 pst. But I wonder why the Workers' Party believes that the private sector should be notified into occupational pension schemes from 20 p.m. position, but not by 35 pst. in the public sector. Is it because the Workers' Party does not want many of the assistants, the nurses, those who make a real tough and important effort in the public sector, but perhaps in part-time positions, to participate in the scheme? The point is that there should be equal arrangements in the public and private sectors at this point. That's why the Right has, among other things, fell on this. The right has also been a driver to earn a retirement pension from the first day. Today, there may be people like this. changes of employment three times in 10 years, which remain without occupational retirement provision. Now you're going to be able to join from the first day, and you're going to have to take the order with you only if you've worked in the same place for a year. It increases the costs for the employers, but I think it is fair and reasonable. So there's a balance in this arrangement. What the right has said is that we want more people to have the opportunity. When you talk about where the sympathies are, our sympathy is also with the one million workers who have no occupational pension scheme, who only have the public interest in the future. Then I have to get back to the question of AFP, I guess the occasion is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e166	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e169	When we know it's at the base of 1 million. employees who do not currently have any form of service pension in addition to social security, it is time for us to get a law that can make it easier to enter into a performance-based pension contract in private enterprises. Today, as has been said, only 35 pst. of those added to private enterprises that have a service pension scheme under tax law. I would like to stress that the scheme under this law is voluntary, and that companies can choose schemes outside this legislation, but then, of course, without any tax advantage. The entire Committee sees it as an objective to provide more people with an enterprise pension as a complement to the public’s livelihood. That's why we've been busy creating a law that's going to make it easier for companies and they're going to add this to. From the Labour Party's point of view, I would like to stress that when we adopt today's law on a pension scheme in which a person is to benefit from low tax charges, it must have a social profile, and it is important that most of them are added to such a scheme. From this point of view, the Labour Party and SV considered that the company should be a management group for the pension scheme regardless of how many employees it is in the enterprise. Such a steering group would mean that they would be added better informed both when pension schemes are involved and any changes made. But unfortunately, the Government gets multiple numbers because the company must have more than 15 added before the obligation to create such a management group. This plural gets it with the Right and the Advance Party. In view of the debate we had here in Stortinget last night, the thing that we are now dealing with is also a matter where the government has not been in control. From the Labour Party's side, I'll say it's my pleasure. There are two elements in this matter that have been very important to the Labour Party. The first is the right to join pension schemes after early retirement with a contractual pension. The government’s proposal would prevent pension scheme membership if an AFP scheme was abandoned by e.g. 62 years of age, and it would make this scheme obsolete for a very large number of employees. Fortunately, the government party here in Stortinget has changed its view, and thus they support the Workers' Party and SV. I would like to stress that once the social partners have agreed to set up a contractual pension scheme with the right to retire at the age of 62, we should facilitate this. The government has challenged this scheme several times in the last year by proposing to weaken it. Both in the laws we handle now, and in the national budget last year, Restad tried, and then he has to go back to the proposal when he comes to Stortinget. I wonder if Restad has some sort of frightening joy when he gets to show LO what he actually thinks, knowing that if there's going to be some sort of climate in income policy cooperation, he has to go away from his submission and accept defeat. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing is to respect what the social partners have concluded with agreements, and we are pleased that today it is agreed that employees can lose a contractual pension when they are 62 years of age and still have up-time service until they reach the age of 67. The second relationship we've been busy in the Workers' Party is tax non-discrimination between private and public pension schemes in the municipal and state sectors. The government has opposed this. Despite the fact that the entire committee pointed out in the management of the budget last fall that municipal enterprises with municipal service pensions have in practice received income deductions from contributions paid in the past, and that this should be carried forward, we have had an exchange of letters with the ministry, which still does not seem to be a good arrangement. Therefore, I am also pleased that the entire committee, including the government party, is now going to legislate that there should be a deduction from the cost of securing a pension in the public pension scheme in terms of employment, and that the law should be in force from 1 January this year. This is also a very important matter for those involved in public works, which can now retain their agreed gross arrangements. These two points have been the most important for the Workers' Party to get through in this matter, and we have actually made that clear. The government party is also fighting with us, against the government's proposal. It is important that you can start ignition early in your life. So it was a very good suggestion from the Government that the right to ignition can take up from 20 years, and when you have a 20 pst part-time job. So we feel that the government parties here in Stortinget will weaken this proposal by going into the right side of a transitional rule of seven years. To me, the government party seems to be so focused on senior policy that they have completely forgotten about junior policy. Professional participation means that younger workers must be entitled to join pension schemes in the enterprise. Excretion over many active years also reduces the annual burden. Now young people are losing weight on the basis of early association with the world of work. These are bad labour market policies, bad youth policies and bad economic policies. So the government could get full support for this, but I understand that to emphasize that they're independent of blocks, the government's party must be with the Right and the Advance Party in some things. That's why they'd rather go away from supporting the Government. They get a multiple, but the government is a failure – and the youth has to wait for even a few years. In the case of the Government's proposal that life insurance with investment options should be prevented, the majority is of another opinion. The majority advocates that the laws should initially not prevent investment choices in enterprising pensions. This ensures equal treatment between the enterprises that own the pension fund and those that sign insurance in life insurance companies. The management of pension funds will, without regard to it, be subject to the capital management rules applicable in general to life insurance. The credit supervision has also been in place to allow such a product to be evaluated as long as there is a return guarantee attached to the scheme. But we've said that the department has to come back with a closer assessment of the investment choices rules. This work must be done in connection with the proposal on inlet-based schemes, which is now coming to the Stortinget in ours. Otherwise, one in several areas has changed on the Government's proposal, and a number have gone too far in simplification and more flexible solutions, which allow more people to participate in the scheme. A collective committee is behind the simplification and the restraints about the crack point and the maximum degree of compensation. The current rule also reflects the need for simple and transparent solutions, while at the same time being able to take care of the need to maintain a policy of distribution. A multiple is also in favour of greater freedom of contract when it relates to the size and duration of the pension. The government is proposing lifelong performance here. There are a lot of people who think it's too rigid, and it's hard to get a deal if you're going to stick to it. For this reason, the Labour Party has been in favour of greater freedom of contract, and believes it is important for the social partners to be able to negotiate it. So the multiple goes in so that we have to have a simpler rule that can make one count on previous length of service. This actually contributes to a more flexible labour market and makes it easier for employees to understand what a person has discovered by rights. Changing the position is now easier after what we've done in the committee. There are many people who have said that the promise of a corporate pension and the promise of an inlet-based pension should be seen in context, but the government has wanted to see these separately. I think it's okay, although there's a lot of things that are going to fall together here. So you have to look at these laws together before they come into force next year. So it's important that when the laws on in-house pensions come, they make sure that it's in a way adapted to the laws we're currently dealing with, so that it doesn't happen that someone else can experience, that there's one point that hits the other in the whole of the two laws. So we're going to have to see them in context before they're set in motion for next year. In the end, I would like to point out something that the gender equality office has been concerned about. It does not really apply to this law, but is more a preliminary work to the next law. In the context of gender equality, in the hearings of proposals for in-line schemes, very many important equality issues related to that type of scheme have been raised. And I think it's important to look at these proposals that the gender equality agency has made. They must be carefully evaluated. They need to be analyzed, and one needs to give proper answers to those in the next laws that come, so we don't have to spend time asking for that work when we're promised. Therefore, I ask the Government to take it along and do the job of which the equality environment is occupied, and which of course we are also busy with, in connection with the work to be done before a law on introductory arrangements. Finally, I would like to address the proposal for the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e209	Ranveig Frøiland has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e214	Despite the fact that there is a fairly broad consensus in the Committee on a number of important issues related to this law, I am a little surprised at the representative Frøiland when she tries to present it as if there is one block concerned with employers' interests and another block concerned with employees' interests. Because it is not the case that it is actually a desire to establish a cost side for the enterprises associated with future pension payments that they can bear, in itself means that you want to weaken employees' rights and the possibility of good pension schemes. However, as Frøiland's representative interprets this, it may seem that it is a disaster that the majority has come to introduce transitional rules in seven years, precisely to allow companies to bear costs better and to have the opportunity over a little longer to adapt to much more costly aspects of pension schemes than they have today. I think that aspect is interesting, and I could imagine that the representative of Frøiland has investigated a little bit more about that particular relationship, because I guess she also wants the employees to have jobs to go to in the long term. In exactly the same way, she tries to present it as if it were a matter of non-discrimination between public and private occupational pension schemes. But that's not the case. For the Workers' Party too much stricter requirements for schemes for private occupational pension schemes than those currently in public schemes have been introduced through this adjustment. And I could imagine hearing the reasons behind the Workers' Party why they're going to introduce stricter rules for the companies in the private system, so you want to maintain less tightness for the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e221	No, I don't think it's a disaster if one has a transitional rule of seven years, but we actually thought the government had such a good proposal when they said this, that one can start with ignition at the age of 20 – and that by 20 pst. position – that we would end up with it. And then I'm very surprised when the Government itself doesn't want to be part of it. It seemed to me that I could say without any disaster associated with it. In fact, I think it is important that young people get started in their professional life – they do that regardless of what we decide here – and that they can start ignition for the pension. Young people are going to go out and out of work, and out and in and out of study, and then it's important that they start early. Therefore, we were busy supporting the Government in relation to it. Here we now have a law on corporation pension schemes that apply to private enterprises. The administration has proposed that all addons start the ignition if they have a 20 pst. the position, and I thought that was actually a very good suggestion. We don't have anything to do with the other public pension schemes, but we have this, which we think is very good, but the government doesn't want to be on. Then I understand that it falls to the right and to the front of the chest that I pointed to this with employees and employers. I thought there was a reason to do that when Børge Burnde was so busy that it would be billions of costs for the companies if these young people were 20 years old and 20 pst. The position would be allowed to start turning up dishes. But I'm very happy that there are many who are busy with their employees' rights. In any case, I would like to say from the Labour Party that we are very concerned that the employer should have employees and that employees should have employers. Therefore, this pension scheme is important, and a set-down of a selection where you have to work together to get good pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e230	The option for these 20-year-olds for whom the representative Frøiland is so concerned, such as: jobs in the trade in goods, which she now believes to have ensured good arrangements, are nothing. That's what's the point here. If you make the arrangements for expensive businesses, the companies can choose and will most likely choose not to have anything. Then I have to say that the representative of Frøiland may be able to help secure weakened rights for some. Then I agree with the representative of Frøiland's description of this matter in general. Here, the government's block independence has been met with a block-independence in the Storting, which has led to the collapse of the Storing blocks and the majority of the government voting. There is also no reason for the representative of Frøiland to be surprised that the government parties are also leaving their own government proposals. That's part of the picture, so she shouldn't be surprised about it. The only one who's kept a line here is the Workers' Party, which has held on to its line, not to fold an inch from the LO. That's a line too. If it's not that political in principle, it's at least in opposition. My question to the representative Frøiland is, how long does this line actually last? Because in the position, in the government of Frøiland, perhaps historically also remembered as the government of Jagland – possibly – they gave opinions, otherwise referred quite well to the national budget, where the government of Jagland pointed to exactly the same thing as the government of Bondevik, namely that the early retirement schemes – read: AFP – have become too expensive and cannot continue. What do you do with that? In position you want to do something about it. In the opposition, you don't want to. I do not believe so much that the Labour Party in a given situation in the future as a responsible party may not do anything about arrangements that have become too expensive. No one has actually, like Jens Stoltenberg, been concerned that the pension schemes are so expensive that we have to do something with them if they are to be sustainable over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e240	To present this in such a way that if 20-year-olds were to start raising pension rights, and those with 20 pst. position, should start right away – it's seven years, and as I said before, it's no disaster, but it's not all the world's difference – and this is being done now, there won't be any part of the pension scheme, it's going to be going very far, I think. I have to say, I don't have such a sense of drama. I think it was a good suggestion that the government made, and one could show the will by starting now. I totally agree that it is important for the most people to participate in that scheme. That is why I believe that the law that is now being adopted today is good in relation to it. And there are changes at many points in relation to the Government's proposal. So the Right in a familiar style hassles that we in the Labour Party have a close cooperation with LO. We thought it was very good to have that. It is important to have cooperation between the Labour Party and the LO, which allows you to follow up both the political and professional dishes that you have been able to process for a long time. So Per-Kristian Foss points to what's in the national budget. Then I thought it was very important to bear in mind that this agreement that is mentioned there was actually valid until 2007. As long as we have an agreement in force, we have to respect it. If things change and the agreement goes out, one can look at new things, but at the time one has an agreement, we from the Labour Party's side think that we should not only have respect for it, but we have to make sure that it is kept, also by legislative power, which is part of that tripartite system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e251	SV and the Working Party agree on a lot and are missing in this setting. We have also agreed a great deal in the preparation of the position, in relation to the welfare message and also to the long-term programme. But there is one aspect where it surprises me a little bit that the Workers' Party has chosen to go away from its previous position, and that concerns the issue of investment choice. In particular, I'm surprised at the reason given here, because the most important element in it is not included, from our previous common point of view. This issue of investment funds shall be addressed and the justification given in the majority’s observations is as follows: ‘In particular, it has been pointed out that access to investment funds could improve the ability of enterprises to finance the schemes, allow for better risk management and reduce the competitive disadvantage of life companies in relation to pension funds.’;» It's all good and good. But since it may be the Workers' Party that is going to present this at some point in time, because this is to be investigated only before a final decision is taken, there is one element that I want Mrs Frøiland to be allowed to clarify, and that is the workers' exemption from risk. The investment risk regime will inevitably lead to a shift of risk. The system for which the Government, the NOU and the SV have initially entered is a system of predictability, but of course with less risk. Here, the Workers' Party has chosen to open up a risk solution which, in the worst case, may mean, if the undertaking goes bankrupt, if the firm goes bankrupt or otherwise, that the risk is shifted, and that at the end of the day it is the employee who has the element of uncertainty. I see that as the core of the whole issue of investment funds. I don't have any problems realizing that the companies would like to get a larger return and thus pay less premium. That makes sense. But the point is, and that is the most important thing: here it is said that there should be investment funds with so-called yield guarantee. I could well imagine – as it is well possible that it is a future worker party government to present the case – to clarify very clearly and explicitly that one does not want that risk to be transferred to the employee, that it is the company that establishes the pension agreement, that is to be held under the guarantee responsibility, and that the employee as such is exempt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e261	The reason why the Labour Party supports this proposal from the Right and the Advance Party is that the Government said there should be no possibility to do so. Then a number of questions asked about why not do it, when the government has also said very clearly that when one comes back with the next laws, about inline schemes, it is allowed. And then we said, "What is the background that a person can't look at these things?" The answer was, as has been said here before, that it has not been allowed before. That's actually not a good reason for not being able to look at these things. We're saying that we're not closing up for what we're opening up to it. So it has to be very clear that there has to be a return guarantee to be attached to this scheme, and so we ask the Department to do the job that it is to go through these things and come back to Stortinget with that matter in a proposition on in-line arrangements. So I don't go in here and tell Øystein Djupedal what it's like. The government can do that job, which has distribution rights. But the answer that it has not been allowed before is not good enough anymore. I'm as busy as Øystein Djupedal that they're adding in a way that doesn't have to sit back with the risk. But these things listen to us coming back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e266	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e269	Initially, I think there is every reason to commend the case rapporteur, Mr. Børge Brende, for the way in which the work on this matter has been resolved in the Financial Committee. It has been a very heavy and technically difficult matter. We have spent a lot of time on it, but in my opinion we have achieved reasonably good solutions in relation to the starting point that many of us thought we had in our hands. I also think, in particular, that the rapporteur presented fairly well the changes made by both the majority in relation to the Government's original proposal and some of the minority proposals available. It is now the government’s choice, despite the majority of the population’s previous recommendations, to see the law on occupational retirement provision isolated from the law on defined contribution pension schemes. That's unfortunate, because these laws are both within the tax law, and they have some common features. When the main objective is to provide more taxpayers or employees with pension schemes, they should be considered together to see how to find a smooth transition solution between these types of pension schemes. But that's what the government has chosen not to do. I think that one of the consequences of that is that the law we are now adopting ends up being revised before it comes into force. It's in particular a little bit special. Now that we have spent several months dealing with a very heavy and important matter, we are at risk of having to take up major elements for revision again even before the law has been allowed to work. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we have been committed to building on the need for flexibility in order to safeguard the interests of both workers and employers in the best possible way. It is a bit surprising that on the Norwegian side, a solution with a significant degree of detail regulation and a significant degree of complexity in lawmaking is chosen when in a number of other countries, e.g. Sweden, has opted to go in the opposite direction and not to govern the design of occupational pension schemes to the same degree by the companies. It has also, in itself, shaped the Committee's discussion: How are we going to be able to remove some of the very rigid proposals that the Government initially put forward? That's weird, I think maybe I was preprocessed to the law. One had this public selection that Selfig led, which was to prepare the government's work on this. Then you can drop a sample that is neither represented by the employee side, the employer side nor by the insurance industry. There are three parties who have significant interests in the future design of the occupational pension scheme, so they should not sit in such a selection and make their views known. I think that's very special, and I hope it's not going to be a practice in sample composition in the future. But there are some things that remain even after the committee has put its hand on the work. This is about voluntary arrangements within the tax law. The main objective then must be to set up the law so that more employers want to offer good pension schemes to their employees. If the legislation becomes costly and bureaucratic, the result will also be that fewer will offer schemes, and then you will end up with the very opposite result of what you have as a goal: getting fewer workers into good schemes. In such a context, it has at least been generally discussed by the Progress Party on access to parallel arrangements, i.e. companies can offer their employees both a defined contribution scheme and a defined benefit scheme. I have found that the committee has chosen not to take a decision on this now; one will come back to it in connection with the law on deposit-based arrangements. That's all right. But this is important. I have noticed in the discussions through this matter that you really don't fully understand what parallel arrangements are about. Because the reality is that if you, as an employee, leave a company where you have initially been offered a benefit-based scheme and change jobs, you will not be able to take along the scheme you have if the company you move to only has a deposit-based scheme. It weakens the rights of employees, and I also think it weakens the ability of companies to have flexible arrangements for their employees, especially at a time when we know that the workforce is becoming more mobile, and not least that the workforce is making greater demands on their employers. When it comes to labour shortages, employers’ negotiating cards will be able to offer good arrangements in addition to wages. And then, among other things, This retirement is central, as much as the option question, as we discuss in other contexts, is central. Then I don't understand why you are so concerned about preventing that flexibility in passing the law, if it would benefit both employees and employers. But we have also been busy having access to closing existing schemes. So it has not been possible to hear about it in the committee, which I think is a very bad thing, because very much of what we do through this legal process is to impose on companies significant extra costs related to a defined benefit pension scheme. So the subsidiary consensus that lies in establishing seven years of transitional rules is, with our eyes, a solution that is at least better than the starting point, and creates greater opportunities for businesses to spread costs and adapt to new arrangements over a few years. It is not necessary to go into all the points in this setting in detail after the examination by the rapporteur. But there is in particular one aspect I feel the need to clarify, and this concerns the statutory right to deduct from public service pensions. It is then important to avoid excessive interpretation possibilities. And I want to clarify something from the setting, because in the setting it is implicit that this applies to everyone – that all public service pension companies should be deducted from their pension costs. This means that enterprises with a state or municipal occupational pension under a collective agreement or established practice are to be deducted. But that once again means the Government's restriction through transitional arrangements by only businesses that are at least 98 pst. municipal ownership, to be deducted, has been rejected by the Committee. I think it's central to focus on it, because the whole purpose of doing this is, at least from our side, not to put any further obstacles in the way of the municipalities being able to sell out parts of their municipal business. If you set the limit to 98 pst, it says to itself how much private ownership you can get into the municipal businesses, and I don't think that makes sense. So I think it's an important clarification, and I guess that clarification also applies to the Workers' Party, which in this area in itself has been involved in the process with us. Finally, I also look forward to the deposit-based pension law, because it will be a very important addition to the benefit-based scheme, and in particular because very many service-related workers who currently have no schemes at all will have an offer that their employers have the opportunity to serve financially. And that's very happy. Then I will also be allowed to address our minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e300	Siv Jensen has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e303	The background to the legislative proposal we are discussing today is the fact that some 800,000 ordinary workers — yes, today it has used figures up to 1 million — in the private sector do not have the right to pension benefits in addition to the people's rights. This is a broad cross-political will to do something about it. Therefore, I hope that this law, along with the law on inlet-based pensions, which will come later this year, will help create a better economic age for as many people as possible. There is no reason to question the security of the future of the people's fear, but at the same time it should not be so much imagination as to see that the future of its retired class distinction can go between those who have additional benefits beyond the people's fear, and those who do not. For this reason, it is so important that this law and the law on in-service pension is not only adopted, but that employers and employees collectively sympathize with the creation of pension schemes, so that my class distinction is not a sad fact. As you know, the Prime Minister, in meeting with the Contact Committee, has outlined a forum for senior policy. I am very pleased with this initiative. I expect that the main theme of this forum on one side will be to find incentives/agents that make it possible to stay longer in work, either on a full-time basis or in part-time terms, for the many who would like it. We know that many people are concerned with a much greater flexibility in this area than is the case today. I take it, of course, that the forum also looks closely at how one can guarantee as far as possible a decent termination of the professional career to the individual when that time comes, whether it is about early retirement, retirement at normal retirement age or total or partial retirement. Because of this warning process from the Government, the Christian People's Party finds it entirely natural to pass on the possibility of imposing pension rights in a service pension scheme, even if the employee makes use of the AFP scheme. When the bill came from the Government, it was claimed from several quarters that this could be a costly scheme, not least because of a rapid phase-in of all the elements. As I said earlier, it's very important to us that as many as possible participate in the scheme. Therefore, we evaluated various elements that could make phase-in cheaper. In consultation with the Government, it was concluded that for three elements, a transitional period of five years may be justified in addition to the general transitional period of two years. This applies to the lower age limit of 20 years for membership of the scheme and to the requirement of at least 20 pst. part-time or seasonal work. During this transitional period, the lower age limit will be 25 years and the requirement for part-time and seasonal work at least 35 pst. full-time job. Another element that has been discussed in the committee is whether or not the laws should open for so-called investment options. This is really about how to find the optimal point between the security of savings and a good return on the same funds. The Christian People's Party is overconfident that the Committee has made a wise choice by asking the Government to come back to this complicated issue in connection with the proposition for an intrusion-based pension. However, in the comments at this point, there is a slight nuance difference because the center part signals that we will conclude after seeing the government's assessment. Since this applies to the security of savings pension funds, it must be the most defensive. The comments of the other parties, with the exception of SV, must be interpreted in such a way that they already have a position to allow investment options. Finally, I must point out that we from the centre, together with SV and the representative of Bastisen, are in favour of the retirement benefits being out of life. I'm sorry, but here we look like we're getting into a minority. I have to admit that I am somewhat surprised, even unintelligible, that the Workers' Party will agree to open in order to have the possibility of agreeing to a pension payment period of up to 10 years. In practice, pension benefits from the disability pension can be raised at the age of 77. Average life expectancy is increasing. In addition, we see that the average number of pensioners has better health and leadership than before. The future is likely to be such that pensioners live in easy-to-use housing, with the possibility of purchasing different daily and necessary services. All of this means that there is very little prospect of entering a monthly pension reduction at the age of 77. In addition, I perceive that a shortening of the pension payment period must be highly discriminatory, because either we like it or not, the statistics show that women live on average longer than men. We can't agree to this, for that's why we keep up the idea of lifelong performance. So I'll bring up proposal No. 2, to which the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e331	Ingrigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e336	Women live longer than men," said the representative Sørfönn. Yeah, that's fine, but I guess it has a little bit of how you live too, but we're not going to talk about that right now. I have to say that I am amazed at some of the positions of the government parties and representative Sørfonn on this matter. For example, I think it is completely incomprehensible that the government parties do not provide the majority of the government's own proposal to immediately initiate the right to earn from the age of 20 and the right to membership in the part-time position of 20 p.m. and equivalent rights for seasonal workers. This is actually one of the most important aspects of the government's bill, and this is now weakened by this transitional rule of seven years that the majority has made. As the representative of Frøiland very precisely said, it may seem that the focus of the government parties on this senior policy and the Bondevik senior forum has led to the forgetting of the junior policy. In the interests of professional participation, much should be said to mean that younger workers are also entitled to membership of companies' pension schemes. And a little mention of this Bondevik senior forum -- it's not free to have people in work anymore either. Earnings over many years of work reduce the annual burden, thus weakening the basis of early labour relations for young people. That is a bad policy for distribution. This is bad labour market policy. It's a bad youth policy. It is a poor policy on equality, and it is simply a bad economic policy. And my question to Sørfonn's representative is: why did you remove the youth's opportunities, and why did you remove the government's arguments to do what the Workers' Party believes is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e349	Let me first say that the laws contain both a lower age limit of 20 years and a requirement of 20 pst. part-time or seasonal work, so that it is the basis of law. But it is true that we have entered into a five-year transitional period in addition to the two general years when these two elements are involved. For this reason, some of the comments made by industry, employers' side, are of great value, given the fact that a rapid phase-in will make this expensive. We have listened to this, and we would like to have such a transitional period to help more people participate in the scheme. Because what we could have risked by standing too steep here without finding transitional solutions was that fewer chose to organize the pension scheme, and then we wouldn't win anything. Let me also say that it's a little bit of a wonder that one of the Workers' Party's side focuses so strongly on this part of the pension scheme, when one can participate in introducing a time limit on the benefits actually down to ten years. And I repeat, as I said in my post, that this is discrimination against women, but I also think that as time goes by, we'll see that this will turn out to be very wrong. Because as those who are not that old today get older, they will have a completely different way of life that will require a person to have performances at a reasonably stable level beyond the age of 77. So we're pretty much uptight about what we've been in favour of, by having a transition period. We believe that the overall scheme will cover more in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e357	I heard the representative Sørfonn claim that the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party are now opening up escalating and supplementary pension payments after 10 years. This is a rule that is in the existing law. You don't open here for an access that doesn't exist, it's a continuation of the arrangements that have been so far. I would like that confirmed by Sørfonn. It's in the setting – and it's actually all the games on – that «it is important that the legislation does not appear rigid or costly, as this would weaken the interest of undertakings in establishing occupational pension schemes for their employees». It also answers why new costs cannot be passed on to those who already have the ancillary system. If the life-long scheme is adopted, enterprises may not continue it. Perhaps the employees then will be part of the 1 million employees in the private sector who have no plans. It's going through the whole 20 pst discussion. position, about 35 pst. position. Of course, it would be desirable to make even more improvements, but, as the Committee itself says, if it becomes too costly, it would weaken the interest of undertakings in setting up occupational pension schemes for their employees. Then we can risk that there will only be a small proportion that will be left with a retirement pension. The government is very concerned that there will be more early pensioners. It is also said that it will weaken the foundations of the welfare society in the future. Why, then, has the system of prohibiting the grant pension from 62 years old for AFPs been waived? After all, it is one of the few concrete proposals that the Government came up with to do something about raising the average retirement age, and not just reducing the number of samples.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e371	The representative Burnde had more questions. I'll see if I've got everyone with me. First, he asked for a clarification that the plurality here has opened for other than lifelong performance. What I referred to was in relation to the bill, which was a proposal for lifelong performance. So the representative mentions this that everyone is agreed on, and writes in the note, that the regulation should not be unnecessary rigid or costly, and he connects it to this with lifelong performance. To that it is said that lifelong performance does not necessarily have to affect business costs. After all, the level of performance of enterprises’ pension schemes determines this, and the level of performance can be adapted to the level of costs desired by enterprises. I understand the question, but there may be more answers to the question asked by the representative Burnde here. It is not necessarily such that a lifelong performance will lead to a higher cost in any case. But the most important thing for us is just the principle of lifelong performance, because we don't want to be involved in a new class division. We believe – as I referred to it – that in the future there will be a need for a certain level of income in order to maintain a standard of living and a level of life – to say it that way. It will require pension income, and we want to be involved in it by ensuring that the benefits of the enterprise pension are also lifelong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e382	The representative of Sørfonn stressed that the Committee agreed that the law should not be applied to the square, nor should the law imply a large, increased cost to business. So the representative Sørfonn says that entering into forced lifelong performance doesn't necessarily have to lead to increased costs for business. This assumes that the level of compensation for those covered by the scheme will then be reduced. Is it so to understand that the representative Sørfonn believes it is right that they should, for example, be present today. have had a ten-year performance, should have lifelong performance, but should then be reduced, for example. in degree of compensation, from 66 pst. to 50 pst., to achieve this? Is that the center's recommendation? If that is not the recommendation, how does it harmonize with the Centre's comment that a more costly system should not be provided in total, because it would then go beyond the number of members of the scheme? I also have another question for Sørfonn: What proposals do you have at the heart of this attitude that will prevent costs from rising sharply towards business in the context of the occupational pension scheme? I've seen that you're in favour of forced lifelong performance. It is agreed that everyone over 20 years of age will be covered by the occupational pension scheme, even if they are now covered for 30 years of service. Previously, in the welfare report, the Workers' Party went in for 40 years of earnings, and it's clear that then maybe 20 years might have something separate, but now we're going in for 30 years, so it won't be that dangerous. 20 pst. private sector position as opposed to 35 pst. position in the public sector, there are significant costs. At what point has the Government contributed to this becoming a less expensive scheme, so that more could be included in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e391	I remind you that this is primarily about securing good pension schemes for the up to 1 million employees who today have no additional benefits in addition to the people's fears. That's our starting point. To do this, we need to have schemes that both employees and employers accept. But I feel that the whole question to the representative Burnde was very strongly angled towards one side: how can this be as cheap as possible? We must not forget that there are two parties to this. We must not forget the care of those who are going to be retired. His specific question went on how far down the center will go when it relates to the degree of compensation, that's about how the question was formulated. We've never said that we want to go down on the level of compensation, but what I said was that lifelong performance doesn't necessarily need to increase the cost, because if you want it, one in the company can discuss the level of performance with them. But the most important thing is that one as a pensioner is sure of a lifelong performance, that one does not get a break, that one not after the age of 77 suddenly goes down dramatically into income. We don't want to be in this. So the representative is asking about what we've done to make this system more reasonable. As I said, it has not been an overarching goal for the scheme to be as cheap as possible, it should be as good as possible. In that it is also to be acceptable to the companies, and I assume that we had a transitional period of two years plus five years, is such an instrument. We've been involved in allocating the cost of investment choices, etc., so I think that in a joint committee we've also been open to look at measures that can reduce costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e398	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e401	Let me first refer to the case-speaker Børge Burnde's broad review of this case, and also state that I am very pleased with the constructive and solid work that the case-speaker has done over a long time while this case has a doctor in the committee. The draft law to which Odelstinget subscribes today facilitates, as it has previously said, that over 1 million private sector workers can be provided through their employers with a service pension as a supplement in addition to their people's fears. The legislative proposal puts in place a framework for both requirements and the organisation of supply, such as: ignition time, retirement age, pension benefits and how to manage pension contributions. The scheme entitles companies to the deduction of income, directly attributable to the tax law, for their expenditure. The proposal for an occupational pension scheme shall regulate a voluntary relationship. Thus, no enterprise is required by this law to introduce a pension scheme for its addition. If, for one of its added offers outside this legislation, one can do so, but without tax benefit. The legislative proposal is intended to take effect from 1 January 2001, and it is desirable that the largest possible company will facilitate this offer. One of the Committee's work has therefore stressed that legislation on the scheme should not be seen as rigid and cost-intensive, and that it should in itself weaken interest to facilitate the pension scheme. Through the work of the Committee, the Government's proposal has been amended in a number of areas, with and without the Central Party and the other government parties involved. The question of the right of deduction for municipally exempted enterprises in line with the state-run enterprises has been a central point. It is the view of the Centre that one must facilitate a level playing field between these two groups by legislating the right of deduction for the cost of securing pensions for those added. This under the condition that the municipal representatives should not have more favourable arrangements than the state authorities have through statements in the State Pension Fund. In the long term, it must be a goal that the benefits of the state and municipally exempted enterprises must be adapted to the conditions of the Act on Entrepreneurship Pension either through the State Pension Fund or the Municipal Landspension Fund, in which they are currently established, or through other alternative solutions. I suggest that the Department will take the initiative in resolving these questions, as set out in the section. We see it as important that pension funds are managed in such a way that they are always sufficient to cover pension obligations. In that respect, the provision of capital management and the allocation of pension resources is important. We believe, as the majority in the Committee, that it should be clarified whether investment options may be available when they relate to pension funds in performance-based schemes. On the other hand, we do not want to take a final position on it now, but we will await the release and see this in connection with the law on introductory pensions, which will be provided later in ours. When it comes to the issue of the right of membership, we agree with the Government that the age limit for the right of inclusion in the scheme should be 20 years. We also mean, like the Government, that there must be a 12 month membership requirement for the right to set up a pension. We also agree with the Government that the minimum part-time and seasonal work requirements should be 20 pst. position throughout the year. These proposals represent an extension of the provision of pension schemes in enterprises in relation to the day, with the additional costs it generates for enterprises. As part of making it possible for enterprises to adapt, it is important to provide for a liberal transition period in order to maximise the scope of the new scheme. So we mean, and we're in favour of, that the transition period for three elements of the membership rules is set at seven years, and not two years, as the government has suggested. This means that the age limit in the seven-year transition period is set at 25 years from 2001, and part-time and seasonal work is set at 35 pst. of a full position during the transitional period, as previously done by the case-speaker. The central party shares the Government's view that it is important to facilitate incentives for the most economically active as far as possible up to the retirement age of 67 years. As part of this, the Government, following the meeting of the Contact Committee, has announced the setting up of a Senior Policy Forum to carry out tasks, including: to assess the relationship between future plans and the possibilities to offset early retirement also through the current contractual pension scheme. As a result of this work, the Centre Party does not now naturally find it natural to propose that workers receiving the AFP cannot continue as members of a pension scheme. The centre party supports the proposal for a 30-year ignition period and the proposal for a mandatory linear catchment principle. The central party regards the population as an important pillar of the pension system, and it will make payments at the age of 67. Our fight to raise the minimum pension by $12,000 a year is also a example of that. Folklore must also be a lifelong achievement. It is therefore natural that the age limit for withdrawals of an early retirement pension is the same as in the population's backlog. The pre-employment pension shall be additional to the population’s social security and shall be responsible for compensating for the loss of income after the age of 67. Based on the fact that the corporation pension is intended to compensate for this lifelong loss of income, we believe that pension provision should also be. It is therefore disappointing that the majority in the committee is not of the same opinion, but confines itself to thinking that the performance can end or be reduced after ten years. Here we see a new perception when it relates to the view of a political point of importance for distribution. That e.g. the finance industry and the capital management see it as rational, is to a large extent easy to understand, but in our view this law should be a step in the policy of distribution. That's why we mean that older people after e.g. 77 years of age should not be assessed as having less important needs to meet, such as through this limitation of the life-long performance of the majority. In the case of benefits to be taken into account by the pension scheme, there is a broad consensus, as it has previously been, that it should be 100 pst. ignition up to 6 G and 70 pst. between 6 G and 12 G. I would also like to comment on Section 12 on joint pension schemes involving several enterprises. In the Chapter of Proposition. 14 is the so-called transversal regimes. We know that pension funds are all established between enterprises, for example. in the case of cooperatives, which are not organised as a limited liability company and which also have no point of group in the traditional sense. We are also aware that the purpose of cooperation between these companies is to exploit economies of scale. The established schemes have provided the added good and stable pension solutions, and no negative consequences have been identified for structural changes made in these schemes. I would therefore like to stress and stress that the Ministry of Further Work in this area needs to demonstrate the necessary flexibility when assessing the approval of a single pension fund for several enterprises, as discussed in this chapter of the Proposition. With the setting to which the Odelstinge joins today, the Government has put in place an important policy-sharing reform. New groups have been given the opportunity to offer other groups for a long time. This has to do with equivalent ratios, and we in the Center Party are very happy to have been on and arranged.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e438	This case is basically a good picture of how block-independent this government is – it is independent of the Workers' Party and the left, regardless of the right side, and to everything the majority, the Government is also independent of the Centre Parties – because there are very few points the Government gets through for those they have submitted in the corporate pension law, even if the law still says it. The government has been defeated by several people in terms of the crack point and the degree of compensation. It shall not be closed to the possibility of investment funds, it shall have a failure in terms of duration, the possibility of a second maturity, and the Government shall also suffer failure in respect of the question of 20 pst. post and earnings from 20 years. Yes, here it is, in fact, that the Government could have a majority with the Workers' Party, if the government parties had supported the Government. What is most gratifying to us is that, as has been said, the government is still able to maintain gross arrangements under the tax law and thus safeguard the situation of employees in those companies. Then we are very pleased that we have once again managed to reject the Government's proposal to attack the AFP system. I do not understand that the Government and the Minister of Finance can see themselves serving – when they know how important the AFP has been in the moderate wage-settings of the last few years as part of a cooperation between both sides of industry and the public sector – repeatedly to attack this system, as we have seen in budgetary terms, and as we have now seen in relation to this bill. It is therefore very good that the central parties do not agree with the central government and reject the government's proposal to destroy the opportunity to earn points in the supplementary pension while one is an AFP pensioner. My question to Jørgen Holte is: Is it such that we can now trust that the Government will not make any more attacks on the AFP system, but that to the extent that they are going to discuss elements in the AFP, they will ensure that it takes place in negotiations with the contracting parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e453	I'm a little surprised that the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, thinks it's a bad thing for a political party to focus on finding good solutions in this matter, like many other things that have been dealt with either in Odelstinget or in Stortinget. Then the situation is such that the parliamentary basis for this government is 42 representatives – we have soon become aware of it. We're very aware that it's significantly less than 165. It means that whoever wants to use politics as a means of finding solutions and the power of the word through it, instead of at all times thinking that it's most interesting to run a list of what things you get through or not, should either stand up among those who think it's important to find good solutions for those we're chosen to manage. This is also the starting point of our centre party and centre party. That is why we have asked for the issue of investment options to be settled. For this reason, in a number of ways, to maximise the scope of the scheme, we have opted for a transitional rule of seven years and not two years for what goes on in the scheme when it comes to age, seasonal work and part-time work. In the case of a contractual pension, it is natural, on the assumption that the Government has decided to implement a senior policy, that one is waiting to decide on the proposal put forward by the Government. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e460	First, I would like to thank the representative Holte for the nice words initially about the case rapporteur. I have a question related to a relationship that the Government has taken up in the proposition, namely the following: ‘The Ministry considers that any changes in public security should have an impact on everyone.’ That is to say, today is not the case with the gross schemes in particular. Statens Pensjonskasse. If a person underregulates the basic amount or cuts the social security, it will only affect those who are in the private sector, not those who are covered by public occupational pensions. This was a good draft of the government's work, a good attitude. Why didn't the Center support the government at this point along with the Right Party and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e474	As I was in the previous line, it's probably right to say that in many fields and single areas in the treatment of this proposition, we have found alternating multiples. That's an entirely correct statement. It is short and good for – based on an overall assessment – to find good solutions, good multiple solutions. It is on a general basis, and it is in relation to the individual issues that we have addressed. To Børge Burnde on the question of exactly this, I have to say that the background for it is of course that throughout the work on the setting we have chosen to find alternately good solutions to get an optimal result out of the discussion in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e482	I guess we all understand that a minority government has to try to find an alternate majority. It's in the nature of the matter. What some of us think is a little bit special is that the central parties in the Great Britain find alternating majority, but alternating majority against the Government. Because they could, if they wanted, have a majority with the Right Party and the Advance Party on the question of AFP. I'm very glad they didn't, because I think the government proposal was very bad. But the centre could have a majority with the Right Party and the Advance Party, or they could have a majority with us to get an impact on the government's proposal to earn 20 years from 20 p.m. and from 20 p.m. on. position. But there was a majority on the other hand to vote against the Government's proposal. That's what some of us think is a little bit special. But some of the explanation may lie in what the representative Holte himself said, that it is more important to find good solutions than to get an impact on the Government's proposals. I guess that was pretty clarifying. I did not get an answer to my question. I asked if we can now, at least if we are to have new proposals for the Storting relative to the AFP, expect that these proposals have been discussed with the parties that established the AFP scheme, that the Government has so much respect for the contracting parties – the employer/employee side – for the agreements concluded that we will not, at least now, have proposals for the Stortingen to change the rules without having been discussed with the parties to the agreement. It has to be a minimum.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e492	One can understand that for Daag Terje Andersen, it is a little special that a search for good solutions with the majority in Stortinget, but it is also no special thing for us that we have chosen to find solutions that are not at all consistent with what the Government has presented. We who have been here for a period before know that it is no big news that a government party in Stortinget goes against its own government. So let's think about a lot of examples. When it comes to what Dag Terje Andersen is dealing with in relation to the AFP, I said in my post that, in the light of what the government said after the meeting of the Contact Committee about taking on a so-called senior policy, we have not found reason to promote the bill that the Government proposed. So Dag says Terje Andersen that he is very happy about it. But he's almost saying that he's a little tired of it too, that we should go towards the Government at this point. It's like that in the argument; it's made as special, it's remarkable, and I don't know what's drawn out soon. We can't actually find it right now, when the government, in cooperation with the parties, has chosen to discuss this. And I think we're going to take very hard inwards how we best manage to align incentives, so that we get a workforce that's big enough to do all the problems that we all want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e501	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e504	SV is very pleased with the setting that exists here. On most points, a broad majority has been created, which is a strength for these kinds of things. It is an objective that pension reforms, which by their very nature are long-term, should be able to survive both policy options and government changes. In the case of SV, it has been important to contribute to the creation of a regulatory framework to ensure that more enterprises benefit from the creation of these types of schemes. Nearly one million workers are currently not covered by supplementary pensions in addition to social security. The goal must be for more people to see that it is corrected. The law that will be adopted today in Odelstinget is a law which is essentially good and which should provide for more workers to benefit from such schemes. The pension scheme is now a tax-advanced scheme and it makes it reasonable to make clear claims not least to the distributive aspects of the pension. In the welfare communication, the SV and the Workers' Party were united on a number of clear distributions related to pension reforms, including the socio-economic and insurance aspects of it, and a far-reaching majority has been achieved in today's position, and there is also a happy broad majority for parts of it. The law will improve the conditions for several groups that are currently weak or have no connection to pension schemes. In the case of women, in the case of young people, in the case of part-time workers, and in the case of older workers. SV is committed to ensuring that employees have a clear influence over the design of pension schemes. We have not been able to see that there is any reasonable reason why groups of employees should not be set up in a company to gain insight and influence over the plans. Unfortunately, there has not been a majority for this in Stortinget, and we are sorry for that. Now there's going to be a group where there's a minimum of 15 employees in an enterprise. It is, after all, better than the system that was, but we can't see that there is any reasonable reason why not all companies that have these types of schemes should be able to set up a steering group. A mandatory transition to a linear principle is also a strength for employees to understand their own pension rights. The transition to a linear principle will increase comparability between different schemes and will make it easier for businesses to hire older workers, as the cost does not increase at the end of a working life, as is currently the case. A key issue of the pension schemes is who will bear the financial risk of the schemes. For SV, it has been important – and is important – that employers together with insurance companies should take on the risks of defined benefit schemes. SV therefore believes that opening up investment funds would violate performance-based principles for collective pensions. One may come in a situation where, for example: the weak financial position of an employer means that the risk is actually transferred to the members of the scheme. Several hearing bodies have pointed out that the issue of investment choice with a return guarantee has not been adequately addressed. We therefore see that it may be appropriate to have the issue investigated, and also ask, like the majority, that this be returned to the Stortinget, but for SV it is an important premise that the employee should be exempt from risk. Another important point for SV is that the AFP scheme is not weakened, as proposed by the Government. SV emphasises that the Government’s proposal would mean a significant reduction in payments, making it difficult for many to make use of the AFP scheme. It shall continue to be possible for the social partners to decide that one may be a member of an occupational pension scheme and receive pension credits even if one uses the AFP. Here is guaranteed a real choice for the oldest laborers in the world of work. The weakening of the AFP scheme may result in a pressure on the non-pension of people's rights or other public social security schemes. This could have resulted in large increases in expenditure on the public budget, and this could have been unfortunate. Nevertheless, there is reason to keep the AFP scheme in focus. The scheme must not be so favourable that it is not profitable to work. We must continue to work to stimulate a progressively higher average take-off age. But SV believes that going to that type of attack on the AFP system is not the right way to do it. SV is also involved in several proposals that strengthen the right of membership of the pension schemes for women. I am thinking in particular of the right to membership at 20 pst.-position, against 50 pst. Now. We know that a lot of women have part-time jobs, and that means that with the percentage set so low here, the schemes could include far more workers, including women, than before. On the other hand, we are sorry that the proposal for lifelong benefits, both proposed in the NOU and proposed by the Department for the Stortinget, is not adopted. We believe that with the future – one may say – life span that a human being wants, lifelong performance will be the right thing to do. Now it opens up for negotiation in the company, and our hope is that the most likely of those who have a pension scheme will nevertheless choose a lifelong benefit. Another proposal for which SV is in favour and which is important in order to achieve the objective of the arrangements covering everyone in the undertaking is the question of closure. However, a closure would have led to the weaknesses of today’s legislation being passed on for very many years in the future, as many as 60 to 80 years, pointed out in a letter from the Ministry of Finance to the Committee. And many practical disadvantages would have come with this, which would have meaning both for the enterprise and for the employer. SV believes that the general rule should be that all employees are linked to one pension scheme and should be subject to the same law, as is the case with the majority. On the other hand, we are surprised that the majority has wanted a longer transitional period, an extension of five years compared to what has been proposed, simply because it will only mean that employers are pushing the problem ahead. There is no empirical evidence that two or seven years are very different for the employer. The costs of a new regulatory framework must be taken, and you might as well take them right away. We also have a weakness in postponing the scheme, and that is that the improved arrangements that we will adopt today will have a longer phase-in period. Another group that is thus strengthened in relation to pension schemes is young people. The youngest in the world of work now receive the same entitlement as older people to membership of pension schemes, fortunately. The majority is also in favour of all employees over the age of 20 being members of the occupational pension scheme. To date, the age limit has been 25 years, and it is a joyous improvement. In addition, it is proposed that employees be included in the scheme from the first day of. It is also a clear improvement. What has been much discussed is the question of the state of play of the public, exempted schemes. In line with previous tax practices, it is now legal for both municipal and state exempted enterprises to receive a deduction of income from the payment of tax-based pension schemes. The government proposes to grant only state-executed schemes to this statutory court, while the majority of the Grand Duchy, including SV, fortunately believes that it is natural that municipal freed enterprises also have the same statutory right to deduct as the state. Another major issue through the treatment of the pension scheme has been the rate of coverage of the pension scheme. The welfare message signaled that one should have an improved distribution profile through maximum compensation and crack point. Here the Committee has seen it as important to get together on a compromise, and I am of the opinion that the proposal that will be adopted here provides a distribution profile, while at the same time compensation is of such a scale that even high-wages will benefit from such a scheme. This may result in more than one entity joining the arrangement, which is the objective of the entire legal work. The sum of what I have now referred to is that SV is well satisfied with the main device of this bill. It provides a good legal framework for private enterprise pension schemes, and it has a satisfactory distributive and socio-economic profile. Our aim is that more workers now also have the possibility of supplementary pensions through the occupational pension scheme. It's at least been SV's starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e536	Through the treatment of the odelstningsproposition that we are now discussing, the Stortinget undertakes a necessary cleanup of the legislation for defined benefit pension schemes. As the rapporteur said at the beginning of the debate, what we are discussing today is to adopt, the end of a long process of cleaning up and renewing that legislation. At the same time, it is hardly possible, through the treatment of this case alone, to solve the problem of the many workers in the private sector who are outside a occupational pension scheme. That is why the next issue that Stortinget will get in this area is so important. For this reason, the Committee also provides a number of guidance on the next case, which relates to defined contribution plans, through the current state of play. A joint committee points to the importance of the Storting being given the opportunity to see these two laws that this is about, in as close a context as it can be done. Therefore, it is also desirable that we get the next case in time, so that these laws can come into force at the same time as foreseen. The working party sees a clear link between these two issues. Although they are different in character, there are two types of pension schemes that are both subject to the tax law and thus have a tax advantage, and it is absolutely necessary to look at the points where the laws collapse or cross. When the Workers' Party in the configuration has merged with a majority that opens up to assess investment funds on the defined benefit schemes, it is precisely because we want the defined benefit schemes to be the best possible for as much as possible in the future. When we make major reforms in the pension system, as is the case when a new defined contribution scheme comes, it is necessary that we also make adequate reforms in existing schemes. That's why we want to have an assessment of the possibility of making investment funds also in the scheme we're dealing with today. As has already been said by many in the debate, it is a fact that the Government's proposal for the law on occupational retirement provision on a number of points, not to say at almost all major points, is being changed in the Stortinget. From the Labour Party, we are very pleased that we have been able to see through our most important amendment. It is linked to, as already mentioned in the debate, the proposal on the AFP and the proposal on the exempted municipal companies. We in the Workers' Party do not stop to wonder how many times the government of Bondevik and Restad will propose changes and intervention in the AFP system without having emerged as a result of discussions between the parties. The debate we have had today exactly reflects a fundamental inequality in the understanding of what our work of agreement means. In Norway, unlike most other countries, very many social systems have been established through agreements and not through legislation in this room. It has been an important system that will also be important for the future. It is then extremely important that we do not again experience that intervention by the government team in contractual matters is done without this being the result of discussions between the same stakeholders. It is therefore important to know whether it is such that after the treatment we are doing today, the centre parties and the government now take into account the necessary contact with the parties involved before promoting a legislative change for the Stortinget. After today's treatment, the exempted municipal companies retain their right to a tax deduction from the pension contribution paid. This has been important for the Workers' Party to have a majority in favour. If it hadn't, there would have been a brake on the conversion work that we think is necessary in many municipalities. The government's proposals here could help to put significant boilers in the way of what we see as necessary conversion measures in many municipalities. In the question about the freed-up municipal companies, I would like to point out that the clarification of the point made earlier in the debate by the representative of Siv Jensen agrees with the Workers' Party. Then came the Government of Stortingen with a very good proposal to take into account the opportunities of part-time employees to join the pension scheme and questions about the right to earn from 20 years. It was a positive proposal, not least from the point of view of equality. But here, unfortunately, the centre parties have gone away from the government's proposal and have gone into a long transitional rule that we have major problems seeing the need for. The focus here has been on fears about costs for business rather than emphasising what was the government's good reason. It leads me to another matter that obviously only the representatives of the Workers' Party are concerned with, namely the issue of equality in this legislation. Today, it is the employment pension we have for treatment and not the defined contribution schemes, but it is nevertheless the case that the Financial Committee has received an enquiry from the Equality Ombudsman, pointing to the importance of ensuring the necessary equality considerations in the next case to be dealt with by the Storting and that the Government is now in the process of working. Then I think it is right and necessary to use the opportunity we now have for the Government and the Minister of Finance to point out the importance of carefully assessing those considerations before the law is presented to the Stortinget. As the Government’s consultation process has been designed, it will involve a different payment for women and men who initially paid the same pension contributions, on the basis of their life expectancy. This is a complicated question of principle, which has a major impact on equality, and which the Government must emphasise in the further work on the matter. Finally, the thing we are dealing with today is a piece of a big pattern that together makes up our pension system. As I have mentioned, and as several have mentioned today, there are several issues. We get the deposit-based arrangements, and we also know that there are major issues to consider in the Government, including: follow-up to Moland Selection. We are in a period when major and substantial pension issues need to be clarified. It is very important that these matters be seen in a context, although it must necessarily be so that they must be dealt with individually in the Stortinget. On the part of the Workers' Party, we have clearly signaled politically that we also see the need to enter into and reform the pension system that is linked to the systems of population protection, not least as a result of the changes we are making in the rest of the pension system through the type of case we are dealing with today, and the one we know is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e553	It is generally agreed that the current rules for tax-advanced collective occupational pension schemes are not temporal. Similarly, most people would have to admit that this is a complex area of business. I remember in this context that the work on the new rules has been going on over a period of ten years. It is therefore extremely satisfactory for the Government to have completed this work. At the same time, the adoption of the Entrepreneurship Act involves only one part of a major pension policy offensive on the part of the Government. I refer here to the ongoing work on pension contributions in employment, the establishment of a forum for senior policy and the follow-up to the settings of the sample that have assessed the issues of fund-ing of the population and the possibilities of flexible retirement. The law on occupational retirement provision is characterised by the regulation of a tax-advanced scheme. This implies that the community bears a large proportion of the costs associated with the schemes through reduced tax revenues. The tax advance is socially justified on the basis of a desire to support schemes that ensure maximum financial security and standard of living in old age and in the context of retirement. For this reason, social protection requirements must also be laid down in the schemes to be covered by the law. In this way, I must say that I am satisfied with the framework we have now received through the law on occupational retirement provision. The Committee endorsed the proposal to continue the current rules as regards vesting time and age limits. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Government's objective of maximising the scope of the scheme is achieved through new rules on membership of the scheme as from the first day, lower age limits for the right to membership, and more streamlined rules for part-time and seasonal workers. That the Committee wishes to see the entry into force of the last three rules suspended in relation to the Government's proposals, I take note. On the basis of the reasons given in the suspension, this does not conflict with the considerations highlighted by the Government in the preparation of the transitional rules of the law. The new law also lays down the linear principle of retirement. This will ensure consistency between the entitlements earned and the pension earned. The principle will also make it easier for individuals to obtain an overview of accrued-to-date entitlements, while making pension costs visible as part of the total remuneration of the employment relationship. The linear principle also strengthens the position of older workers in the labour market when it will no longer be possible to offset the costs of pension obligations, as is the case today. Furthermore, it is gratifying that the Committee has endorsed the Government's proposal for rules on retirement pensions for those who continue to work after the retirement age of 67 years. This could help reverse the trend towards an increasingly lower actual retirement age. For those who retire, the law will improve by ensuring that the pension during payment is covered by the rules on the surplus fund of pensioners. This will ensure that pensions do not lose their value over time due to inflation. I note with amazement and amazement that the majority in the Committee opposes the Government's proposal that benefits should be lifelong. This is particularly true in relation to the Workers' Party, which submitted such a requirement during the treatment of the welfare notification. The position of the majority will particularly affect women. The loss of income will last for life and the payments from the retirement pension will be in addition to the benefits from social security. The need for pensions does not wane over the years, and a lifelong benefit would provide individuals with better financial opportunities to influence their situation as an elderly pensioner. I notice that the majority uses the costs as their bearing argument. I think this is wrong. The individual enterprise must decide for itself what expenditure it will have as a pension scheme for its employees. Thereafter, the content of the scheme must be adapted to that level of costs. This means that for a given cost, the choice will in this case be between a given performance over 10 years or a slightly lower lifetime performance. Benefits limited to 10 years mean that when people are 77, they get a heavy drop in income. Until then, they have adapted to a given income situation, which is suddenly reduced. This occurs in a life phase where the need for support, medical care, etc. increases. Thus, their reduced income situation in the next round will result in personal problems and increased pressure on social welfare and on the social security system. Current legislation is very deficient with regard to the rules on pension schemes in group conditions and the management of the schemes in relation to different types of company change. I have noticed that the Committee has not raised any objections to the proposed rules. With the new rules, we will have time-limited legislation that is adapted to the reality of the day and that can meet the needs of business for conversion, while safeguarding employees' acquired rights. The new law involves changes on a number of points. This has been taken into account through transitional rules to facilitate adaptation to the new legislation. The proposed rules have also been known for a long time. With effect from 1 January 2001, as well as a general period of adaptation of two years and some transitional special rules of up to 10 years, this should not create problems. In this respect, I would also like to point out that the law provides a great deal of flexibility to ensure that it applies to all types of taxable enterprises. This will allow the scheme and its related costs to be adapted to the needs and finances of individual enterprises. With the strong need for revision of the existing legislation and the clear improvements contained in the new law, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal not to open up so-called closure. This would, in effect, have delayed the entry into force of the law in relation to existing schemes for many years, while at the same time causing the disadvantages and costs of having to deal with two sets of rules in the same area for a long time. In conclusion, I point out that an overall committee proposes a change in the tax law that would grant the right to deduct subsidies to pension schemes in so-called exempted municipal and state enterprises. For the sake of order, I recall that for companies that maintain their relationship with the State Pension Fund, the tax law already provides for such deduction. The State Pension Fund offers so-called gross schemes and is not based on insurance technology, as the Entrepreneurship Pension Act assumes. I assume that the Committee has not here considered that such undertakings should be granted the right to deduct if the scheme is subscribed to by a private insurance company without fulfilling the conditions laid down in the law on occupational retirement provision. When the Committee refers to the fact that a deduction has been made in practice for exempt municipal enterprises, I understand this as a reference to exemption practices based on the current regulation. Dispensation has been granted in connection with the separation of part of the municipal administration into its own legal entities. In practice, such exemptions provide for a minimum public holding of 98 pst. In the end, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the finance committee on the fact that the important and relatively complex issue of occupational retirement provision has been completed in line with the progress plan. It facilitates the preparation of the case for a contribution pension, so that it will be submitted to the Stortinget in April, as provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e583	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e586	I must first be allowed to say that in this debate I have been sitting and wondering how to interpret the fact that the Minister of Finance is currently sitting on a different chair than what we are waiting for here in Stortinget. Whether there's going to be a signal that he's taking a distance from his taboo right, I don't know, but it's at least a fact that he's moved to another turn today. It was actually another relationship I wanted to use the line for. I would like to point out again that the government of Bondevik and the State Council of Restad have so far led a sort of crusade against the AFP system, which has so far failed. It's really surprised us. In my opinion, Minister of Finance Restad, when he leaves here today after this debate, should be satisfied and grateful that the Stortinget has actually cleared up the proposal he has submitted to the Stortinget. It would have been very little desirable, I believe, for Minister of Finance Restad and for the Government to have a major conflict with the trade movement on the AFP, right in front of the wage settlement that stands before us, a wage settlement that the Minister of Finance himself has repeatedly characterized as absolutely crucial to the development of our future economy. My question to Minister of Finance Restad is this: Does Restad agree that relations that have been achieved through agreements in the labour market should only be changed after new negotiations between the parties? Does Minister of Finance Restad agree with that principle? And can we count on that to be the principle that the government of Bondevik will use in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e595	I might first help clarify this confusion about the chair position. It is not that I have an indifferent attitude to placing on trusts, and I would like to keep the chair I have in the Government as long as possible. The chair position has the simple explanation that I have moved up a place in the government hierarchy as Minister of Fisheries Peter Angelsen recently ended – he ranked in front of the Minister of Finance at age. Then after he left and was replaced by Lars Peder Breck, I moved up one place, and I had to move from one side of the hall to the other. Then I hope that the confusion at least does not bother the hall anymore. So Hill-Marta Solberg says that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have run a crusade against the AFP. I think that's an unreasonable accusation. What we did in the national budget was to represent part of the early retirement committee's position, that is, the Olsen Committee's position. We had some points of view in this connection that we expressed in the national budget, but no proposals. So this proposal that is contained in the current odelstningsproposition today is actually the first concrete proposal for amendments. So I have noticed that especially Dag Terje Andersen – and perhaps more – believes that it is the bulk of the population, and perhaps especially the Workers' Party, which is to be credited for not adopting what the Government has proposed. However, this had already been clarified in connection with the Contact Committee meeting some time ago, when the Prime Minister, after having made a conference with the rest of the Government, presented a proposal to the social partners on a forum for senior policy. It was then natural in this respect to leave the proposal behind and not to make changes to, for example: The AFP Facility, which will be among the themes to be discussed in this Senior Policy Forum. I don't know how long this discussion will take, but at least there is agreement to set up this forum. The invitation made by the Prime Minister was received by all the parties in the Contact Committee, and then we are doing well to see if we can come up with an order. Everyone realizes that the problem of early departure is a problem, including LO.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e604	The next replicator is Børge Burnde. The President would also like to congratulate the Minister of Finance on the rise in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e607	I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has now announced that the proposal on defined contribution pension schemes will be promoted in April. Then you keep the progress in that matter, and that is important. Not least, the Committee also has the whole issue of occupational retirement provision in mind, and it may be a good thing to have. It has been an important matter for the Government to raise the average retirement age. In fact, there has been a broad consensus in Stortinget since the treatment of the welfare notification. When we dealt with welfare reporting, the average retirement age was 63 years, and there were no limits on how many people made recordings — and large words flew through the air — about measures that they wanted to take to get it up. Since then, the average retirement age has fallen to 59 years. The government was very concerned about this, and not least was underlined by the finance minister in the national budget. He said, ‘The Government recognises that the main problem with an increasing dependency burden in Norway today is linked to the increasing level of early retirement in recent years, in particular through the disability pension of the population and the AFP scheme.’ In a national budget, there is quite a strong use of language. One important element to resolve this, said the Council of State, was to abolish the possibility of subsidising the grant pension under the Tax Act. This is now disapprove of the Government and the Centre Parties. But when it is that you cannot continue to increase access to early retirement, that it must be stopped – what is it that the Government intends to do? The only concrete measure in favour of the ‘Senior Committee’ is rejected. Isn't it easy, then, to just be a new investigation, that exposes the problems we're facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e626	There can be no particular doubt that the biggest challenge for the Norwegian economy is currently the lack of labour. And so it's a problem that there are schemes that stimulate unnecessary early departure. I think there is a relatively general consensus that people should not be encouraged to leave early when the shortage of labour is the problem. For my own personal part, I am strongly attached to the greatest possible flexibility in the field of retirement, usually a retirement period of 60 to 70 years. But it must be that it pays to stand in the work as far as possible. It doesn't have to be that it doesn't matter if you go off like a 60-year-old or 70-year-old; it has to be an economic incentive to be able to offer your labour when you're healthy and in order, as long as possible. It was also the view behind what was presented in the national budget of the Olsen Committee. So to what's now happening. We did not think it necessary to provoke the particular trade movement, which we have registered very strongly on the proposal to do something about the AFP system. We therefore invited rather to a process, a forum for senior policy. And I believe that once this process has been completed, it is my hope that the parties have then come to an agreement to find an appropriate mechanism to stimulate people to be in the labour market as far as possible. What is now actually offered by the Government is that no changes will be proposed to the AFP scheme in the coming tariff period, i.e. the next two years. And then I expect that in the course of the two years it will be possible to come to an agreement on something, which I do not yet know what will be, but at least something that all parties can earn, and which will also serve the Norwegian economy by ensuring that the workforce is not reduced unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e633	I must first be allowed to note that the Council of State Restad did not respond to the principal challenge I had to him in my first line, on how he views the principle that the Workers' Party considers important to lay down, namely that a regulation relating to the social situation that has arisen through agreement between the parties cannot be altered by legislative proposals in the Storting unless this has been discussed beforehand by the parties. We believe that this principle is important to preserve, if we do not want a system in which a number of conditions in the world of work that have now come about through an agreement that we all greatly appreciate and value, are to be replaced by a system of legislation in this room. That principle must allow me once to challenge the Council of State to respond. Otherwise, I just have to say that it was a mispractice from the Government to promote the proposal they made. Restad does not say it directly, but it is clear that it was a mistake. So he had to have a meeting in the Contact Committee in order to understand it. It is in itself a matter of astonishment that it would take two and a half years for the central parties in the government offices to really appreciate the importance of the rules of the game in relation to the social partners. But it was good that a meeting in the Contact Committee affected the parties in the right direction, so that they today in the Stortinget vote against what Restad and the government Bondevik actually proposed to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e640	I'm sorry that I wasn't able to answer the principal question that Hill-Marta Solberg asked instead, but it was because I had to spend some time explaining the chair position, I had almost said the taboo position. Now I'll make sure I can answer. The government had already decided before the meeting of the Contact Committee to offer the parties represented, a forum for senior policy, and then we agreed that, as part of this offer, there would have to be an offer to leave, among other things. the current proposal in the Storting on the AFP scheme rested and a grace period of two years was granted in the offer. This was received with an open mind and an open hand from all parties, both employers and employees. That is also why I hope that this forum can come up with solutions, as I said in my previous reply, with which all parties can be served. Because I don't think it's just the government that's concerned that, in a situation of labour shortage, you're going to have schemes that might stimulate early retirement. Rather, it should be encouraged to make their workforce available as far as possible. So that's the actual answer, right? We have already shown in practice that we address this issue with the parties that have concluded agreements before we change the arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e647	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 313]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e663	A majority of the Committee on Accounting Laws proposed in NOU 1995:30, on new accounting law, that investment in consolidated subsidiaries be assessed according to the equity method of the annual accounts. It was considered that there are no additional costs associated with the use of the equity method in the assessment of subsidiaries to be consolidated. It was considered that the equity method provides a more accurate accrual of the return on investment in related companies and subsidiaries than the cost method. The minority of the committee proposed that the equity method be made voluntary in the case of investment in consolidated subsidiaries. The minority considered that it is unnecessary to consider investment in subsidiaries consolidated by the equity method and that this is not at the expense of the accounting officer. In the consultation round, several argued that both the equity method and the cost method should be allowed in the annual accounts. In Ot.prp. No 42 for 1997-98 on the Act on annual accounts, the Ministry proposed the compulsory application of the equity method and the Financial Committee concluded. During the autumn, more comments have been made on the use of the equity method for investments in subsidiaries, and the objections have been particularly related to the cost aspect. Therefore, in this proposition, the government has proposed to suspend the entry into force of the obligation to apply the equity method in accounting assessments of consolidated subsidiaries. This means that, for the 1999 financial year, the use of the equity method or the cost method is voluntary. The Ministry notes that in the future they will collect the evaluation of these issues from different bodies and assess whether there is a basis for permanent changes to the rules adopted. The Financial Committee has unanimously agreed to this. We want a rapid assessment of whether the changes should be made permanent, in particular because it is essential that companies, accountants and auditors have predictability in the planning of their annual accounts. The Committee has also found that the Government initially chose to delineate the issue of using the equity method in the annual accounts for investment in subsidiaries. However, the Committee considers that the problem also arises from the use of the equity method for investments in related companies and the use of the gross method of participation in jointly controlled activities. In this context, there has been an exchange of letters between the Committee and the Minister for Finance, and the Committee notes that the Government has no objection to postponing the obligation to apply the equity method in the annual accounts for both subsidiaries, affiliated companies and participation in jointly controlled activities. That is why the Committee has also put forward a proposal to that effect. However, the Committee has noted that most EEA countries do not have an obligation to use the equity method and the gross method in their annual accounts. So we want to ask the government to consider also the aspect of the round in which they are now going. Finally, the Committee noted that the credit supervision recommended that requirements for the use of the equity method be maintained for financial institutions. The Committee cannot see why financial institutions should not be subject to the proposed amendment. The professional justification for the deferral is the same for these enterprises as for others. The burden is as heavy for these businesses as for others. Furthermore, it was stated as a principle in the Accounting Act that the general rules must apply equally to all persons subject to the accounting obligation, unless specific considerations provide for exceptions. The Committee cannot see such specific considerations. Here, too, there has been an exchange of letters with the Minister of Finance, which states that exceptions to the Accounting Act also apply to financial institutions, but a more detailed assessment of whether the equity method should be made compulsory for life insurance companies. The Committee therefore assumes that, if so, the Committee will be immediately informed so as to allow it to assess that issue. I would like to add, for the sake of order, that predictability must also be taken into account here, in particular in view of the deadlines for issuing annual accounts. With that, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e680	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 332]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e694	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President has reason to believe that the debate is of a somewhat shorter duration than the one announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e705	I just want to make a few brief comments on the odelstningsproposition. This proposition is a follow-up to the treatment of the State budget last year. A majority of the Committee agreed to extend child rights to 18 years of age. The working party has found it appropriate to be able to support this extension of child-restraint as part of the overall budgetary agreement. We want to come back to a thorough treatment and review of the Child Protection Act when the Stortinge gets it for treatment. The additional financial costs of extending the current family allowance to 18 years are covered under the existing budgetary framework. This will mean that the framework for younger children will be somewhat reduced, so that child welfare can also be provided to them between 16 and 18 years of age. The additional expenditure on the social security system by introducing the extension will amount to approx. Five million. kr per. years, in addition to an amount of approx. NOK 600 000 for current expenditure. But as I said, we'll come back to the changes in the Child Security Act at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e714	In our alternative budget for 2000, we proposed to continue the system of child benefit until the child reaches the age of 16. We went against enlargement to 18 years, which was a consequence of the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party, and to which the Progress Party also joined. We do not want to support the legislative changes, because we believe that the system it is now set up will result in total child-restraint for the families of children. Now it's getting late in the afternoon, so we're not going to go into a long debate on numerical calculations, etc., but at least we got a letter from the Ministry of Children and Family dated 24 November 1999, where the department calculated the total impact for families who, over the age of 18, will receive child benefit and dependant deductions under the arrangements established by the budgetary agreement. Now, since we can read it out, it's obvious that the change in child welfare that is now being made is not to the benefit of families with children. In this context, we want to vote against the change to extend the child's rights to the age of 18. We also want to go against the other legislative proposals, namely the fact that the right to family allowances is conditional on the child not having married under the law of 4 July 1991 or partnership. This means, in reality, that if a child is under 18 years of age, for example: If you are married, you will lose the right to child welfare, but if you choose to live alone, or if you are lonely, you will receive child welfare. I wonder what kind of family policy profile this incident is – especially from the Christian People's Party, because I thought that if you first ended up in such a situation, it would be a good thing to enter into a partnership or get married. But here the law stimulates that young people under the age of 18 should be lonely until they reach the age of 18 – to receive child welfare. I can't see that this is particularly well thought out, and at least I encourage the majority in this room, who are in favour of this amendment, to think a little bit about the consequences of that very amendment. I am aware that this is by reference to marital obligations, etc., but here we are talking about very young people who are likely, if they come into the situation that they themselves have children, will be in a difficult financial situation, and then they will also lose their own child-responsiveness if they marry. There is no right to be able to support, and we will therefore vote against the proposed legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e725	There has been a broad agreement to expand child-rearing to 18 years of age. It has also been widely agreed that this should be done within existing frameworks, so that child welfare was spread over a longer period of time. This also gives lower bets per. years, but overall the same benefit to families with children as before. For a few, the conversion may result in a limited loss spread over very many years, but for most, the conversion leads to an increase in the total payment of child benefit. It also applies to families with children who have completed or reach the age of 16 before 1 May of this year, when the extension is to come into force. They return to childhood from May onwards, where they are even the month they are 18 years old. It goes without saying that the families come out best that have the oldest children at the turn of the year. Families with children between the ages of 13 and 16 come out best, while families with many small children come out somewhat less favourably. Most young people are under education until they reach the age of 18, and fewer and fewer are caring for themselves at this age. In addition, the funding of continuing schooling is primarily to be seen as a responsibility on the child’s parents. A natural consequence of this is that child-restraint is linked to the age of voting, which is the time when custody is lifted. Norway has had a low age limit for entitlement to child protection in a European context. It's been harpsied with, among other things. from the Right today, that now grown people can get child-responsive if they have children themselves. Here we should be aware that in Denmark the age limit is 18 years, in Finland 17 years, while the limit is 16 years in Sweden with chances of extension if the child is under education. In Germany, the age limit is 18 years, but may be even higher if related e.g. unemployed or under education. Therefore, there is nothing exceptional about the 18-year-old limit in Norway. It amazes me that the Right has suddenly been so afraid of child welfare to 18 years of age. They are indebted to the fact that there was a budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Workers' Party which increased child welfare from 16 to 18 years of age. But it was Right that in the cash support agreement on 11 May 1998 wrote below. point (f) and it says: ‘These parties agree that different support schemes for young people aged between 16 and 18 should be considered in greater detail, including the proposal to extend the amount of child benefit to 18 years without increasing the total amount. The Government is asked to provide an assessment of these issues in the 1999 State budget.’ So now the government has come back to this, but then it's working right towards it. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e745	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is just about the next day. The President proposes that this meeting continue until today’s map is finalised – and sees it as adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e748	I will not interfere with any dispute between parties that have agreed to introduce another system. I just want to say that we look at these changes as proposed today, as a consequence of raising the upper age limit for child welfare to 18 years. And that's a change that SV fully supports, and we're glad that there's a majority for now. Because we believe that the duration of the child-restraint should relate to the age of authority. Most young people under the age of 18 are cared for by their parents, live at home and go to high school. And there are a number of parents, especially lone parents, who are struggling to get the money to spend so that their children who go to high school can participate in activities outside of school time and be with the class of school trips abroad, for example. Anyone who has had children at that age knows that the cost will not be reduced when the kids get older. In the context of the treatment of the State budget for this year, SV pointed out that, in the event of an extension of family allowances, it would be wrong to make the economic changes proposed to introduce the age extension. So we had another model, but we didn't get there. Then we are dealing with the changes that are being made now, and we did not promote the continuation of the proposals that were made in connection with the state budget for this year when we are dealing with the amendments that are now under the Children's Rights Act. We are choosing to come back with a more comprehensive proposal in connection with the total revision of the child-rescue law that has been notified, says it is good that we now extend child-rescue to 18 years, and support the proposals that are there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e755	I am not going to extend the debate in particular, but I am going to make it clear that the Progress Party is absolutely in order to extend child welfare to 18 years of age. What is important for the Progress Party in this matter is the economy. The Progress Party will finance these two additional years with fresh funds, so that child-rescue rates remain at the 1999 level, so that children’s parents do not reduce their monthly amounts. Otherwise, I noticed that the representative of the Center Party spent a lot of his time on who had the credit and not the credit for the cash support. I would then be allowed to say that the credit for the cash support was something of which the Progress Party would probably have to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e764	I am very pleased that the Stortinge decides today to change the child-restraint law so that 16- and 17-year-olds will also be entitled to child-rescue. The age limit for child protection was set at 16 years when the child-restraint law was introduced in 1946, and has not been changed in the future. Many people have rightly pointed out that age limits have not been consistent with the situation of most children and parents. The vast majority of children go to school and are cared for by parents long after they reach the age of 16. Therefore, an extension of children’s rights to 18 years of age is a proper and good reform for families with children. For a long time as a government councillor – but also before the central government took over – there have been unusually many people who have contacted the Department of the Urrimal in the fact that child welfare falls away when the children reach the age of 16. In almost no other matter, there have been so concerted feedbacks. The expansion of child welfare is a new step in the direction of a more modern approach to family and growth policy. I am therefore pleased that there is such a solid plurality here in Stortinget to follow up the Government's proposals in this area. The extension of child-restraint will take effect from 1 May of this year. From that time, all children under 18 years of age will be included in the scheme. More of the other Nordic countries have a higher age limit for child protection than Norway has until now. Denmark has 18 years of age, Sweden has 18 years of age if children are under education, and Finland has 17 years of age. I wonder that the Right is against the proposal. In the agreement between the Government Party and the Advance Party and the Right on cash support, it was a good idea to consider increasing the amount of child benefit to 18 years without increasing the total amount. There is one such model Government has proposed. When two new coals are to enter the child's back without increasing the total frame, the bets will necessarily have to be reduced. This has not been an unknown consequence. It has been a doctor in the air all along, it has actually been a premise for the proposal that Right wrote down for some time ago. When the bets are reduced, families get less child-responsive if they look at a single year. It is possible to do a lot of maths to illustrate this. On the right, in the Committee setting, the 2000 rate has been compared to the 1999 rate adjusted to find out how much family is losing on the conversion. In my view, as the child benefit rates have not been priced or paid for many years, this is a rather funny calculation. Despite being less child-restraint every year, it will collect child-restraint payments over the age of 18 about the same as it would have been with the old bets over the age of 16. Of course, there are examples of families who lose and families who win the conversion, including this calculation method. If we had increased the child benefit to 18 years without reducing the bets, as some people have agreed, it would have cost about $1.4 billion. I actually think it would have been a little realistic suggestion. So I'm very happy that we're now adopting an extension within the frame, and then we'll see if there'll be room to increase the child-restraint rate in the future. I also want to add, when Right is concerned that those under the age of 18 who are married should not get child-responsive: this is a very small problem in that context. There are not many people involved in that scheme. But to clarify this, there is no signal from the Christian People's Party's side or from my side about neither one thing nor the other in that way, it's simply to follow up the law that we have, in relation to both marriage and child's fear. This is the most consistent and realistic way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e783	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e786	Whoever made me take the floor was the representative Valle from SV, who correctly pointed out that we are now getting a major revision of the child's rights. It is also pleased with the Progress Party, not least because we believe that child welfare is a very good tool for fair and proper distribution. And then it is regrettable that we do not take advantage of the tools that lie there, even in relation to the fact that we introduced the cash support – that we did not use the child's pension in this connection and distributed the funds, which the government would not be involved in. In relation to further revision, the Progress Party has a wish and objective that all transfers to families with children should be distributed fairly and properly. And then the idea is that the cash support, the maternity leave funds and babysitting funds might be put in the same pot, so that this is distributed equally to all children in Norway. It would be a fair and fair distribution. So I think, as I said, it is regrettable that we are not able to use the tool that is already built up, and that everyone here in the debate also refers to is so very good, namely the child's fear. Otherwise, I would like to say to the Council of State: the Progress Party had no problem finding fresh funds to extend child welfare to 18 years, i.e. pay the two extra years with new and fresh funds. But we were alone about it. So I'd like to make a comment to the representative of Greece, who was so busy with those who will lose their child's pension because they're getting married. There are also many of us who are concerned that someone might marry prematurely, so maybe this may be a preventative in relation to them postponing marriage at least until after age 18, if that's the way they have the choice between marriage or child's pension. So that's the way, if there's any comfort for Greece, he can take it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e798	That was a good advice before the weekend. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 332]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e808	Odelstingen then goes to voting in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e814	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1 by Ranveig Frøiland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 2, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the representative of Basteen, the proposals No. 3-7, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 8 and 9, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party The President first takes note of the proposals. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. Proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, saying, ‘The Government requests the Government to submit legislative proposals to give employees the right to reserve themselves against membership of the pension scheme.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to the effect that free policies are not issued where the insured person is still a member of the pension scheme. The amount of free police duty remains as a benefit, i.e. a fully paid coverage incorporated into the scheme.’;» Proposal No. 6, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to amend the first paragraph of Section 6-3 in order to allow the establishment of a disability pension which differs in size from the old-age pension.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to allow the closure of existing pension schemes, so that existing schemes continue as before for those covered by the schemes.’;» Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government is asking for legislative proposals that employees working in the enterprise should have the right to receive pensions beyond retirement age, so as to enable the flexibility of the parties to agree on combinations of pensions and wages.’ Proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal to allow a three-year escalation plan for the collection of unreserved premium reserves, in accordance with the setting of the Selfig Committee.’ The proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e967	Point (c) of the second subparagraph is amended as follows: 3, from the Party of Progress and the Right:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1036	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 3, from the Party of Progress and the Right:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1086	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1153	The fourth subparagraph is accompanied by an aberrant proposal No. 3, from the Party of Progress and the Right:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1215	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 3, from the Party of Progress and the Right:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1261	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 3, from the Party of Progress and the Right:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1292	Here, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they are moving towards the second link. The party of progress and the right supports the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1359	The Propulsion Party and the Right have announced that they are heading towards the second link.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1527	Here the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative of the Bastisen have announced that they are moving towards the third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1590	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and the Representative of Bastesen: ‘Section 5-1 of the Entrepreneurship Pension Act shall be replaced by the old-age pension provided from the retirement age laid down in Section 4-1, and shall run for the duration of the member’s life. [[1]] [[1]] It may not be stipulated in the legislation that an old-age pension is to cease or that retirement benefits are to be reduced after a specified number of years.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1704	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Party of Progress and the Right:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e1785	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they are moving towards the third paragraph. So it goes over the third term first, then over the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2102	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Party of Progress and the Right:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2375	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 3, from the Party of Progress and the Right:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2508	To the third subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2663	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2671	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2707	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2714	The Law Decision will be sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2759	The right has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2768	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Right will also vote against this. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2780	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24-lower.ana.ud706e2789	There is no record.
