ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e124	The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Aud Folkestad, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e132	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended to take account of tomorrow's agenda, so that the minutes of the Odelstinget meeting will be held tomorrow Friday 16 June after the final part-session. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Terje Knudsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e139	On behalf of the representatives of Øystein Hedstrøm, Vidar Kleppe, Jørn L. Stang, Lodve Solholm, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to make a proposal to immediately suspend Norway's self-imposed export ban on wafer products.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e144	Thore Aksel Nistad will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e147	On behalf of Christopher Stensaker, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I will be allowed to present a Document No. 8 proposals to increase the speed limits of Class A motorways from 90 km/h to 110 km/h. Then I have another suggestion. It's a Document No. 8-proposals on behalf of Kenneth Svendsen, Christopher Stensaker, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself on the closure of the system of product charges for aerated non-alcoholic beverages – the so-called carbonic acid tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e154	Then Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has asked to make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e157	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Tingelstad, Gudmund Restad and myself, I will deliver a Document No. 8-proposal for the sharing of pension points for spouses in joint action.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e163	Annelise Hoegh will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e166	On behalf of Sonja Sjøli and myself, I would like to make a proposal to put in place measures to increase the treatment capacity of people with eating disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e171	Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e174	On behalf of the representatives of Thore Aksel Nistad, Christopher Stensaker and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to stop the project E6 through Steinkjer in the Nord-Trøndelag and to take seriously the popular demand that new E6 be built outside the Steinkjer centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e179	Finally, Mr H. Langeland will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e182	On behalf of myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to evaluate an extension of the principle of military service exemption law, so that tax can be transferred to peacemaking work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e187	All these proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e199	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e210	First of all, a correction: in the event of an incursion, on page 25 of the setting, reference is made to the wrong number of the deposit notice on archives, libraries and museums in an ICT time and to the building framework conditions in the field of culture. The correct designation must be St.meld. No 22 for 1999-2000, and not No 17, as it says in the setting. An alternate majority of the Committee endorses all the Government's proposals in the Community economic proposal. This is joyous. Finally, a majority of the municipal committee is in favour of taking a force for the municipalities, not only in terms of the economy, but also in terms of the structural conditions associated with the municipal sector. The Committee notes the imbalance in the finances of the local government sector, an imbalance that will have to be corrected for several years. It underlines the need to expect municipalities themselves to contribute to the improvement of the economic situation by improving efficiency and innovation. A unanimous committee believes that there is a need for the renewal of the public sector, for conversion and for the efficiency of municipalities and county councils, which are the main producers of our welfare services. In this context, the Committee stresses that many municipalities are at the forefront of the development of good and effective solutions that meet the needs of the population. These municipalities are good models for other municipalities that have not started so well. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all parties, except SV, stress the importance that the local economy should not be seen in isolation from the general economic development of the country for, inter alia. ensuring employment and keeping interest rates down. Yesterday’s interest rate increase from the Bank of Norway should thus be a serious warning to those parties who believe that the Workers’ Party and the Government are over-dramatising the need for tightness in the economy. The revenues of municipalities in 2001 are increasing by around DKK 4 billion compared to the revised national budget. Here, too, the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposals. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party thus promote a proposal for an increase of approximately NOK 5 billion. So much money didn't have these parties when they were in position. What is even more important, however, is that a significant part of the funds should be provided as free resources, more specifically about NOK 2 billion. A proportionately greater proportion of the free resources will go to the counties. The government proposes major system changes that will reduce the detailed management of the municipal sector and provide more equivalent municipal services to its population. Among other things, the Government proposes to go from rule management to target and performance management in the local government sector, based on established consultations with KS and on the use of KOSTRA. This gives the Committee its assent. The government proposes major changes in the income system from 2002 to 2007 to ensure a fairer distribution and cohesion between municipalities in the country. There will now be a redistribution of income from the richest to the poorest municipalities. For this, the Government will have a majority. Let me mention some of the main features of the conversion of the income system. A majority of the Committee is in favour of the liquidation of the loss compensation scheme, in line with the Government’s proposal. The reduction shall take place over five years by introducing the loss compensation into the ordinary instruments by one fifth each year from 2002 to 2007. When we see that the redistribution effect has become less than recommended by the Rattsø Committee, it is positive that the Committee is now implementing what the Stortninget has previously adopted, so that we get redistribution schemes that are fairer. Municipalities with tax income above 140 pst. of the national average now pays 50 pst. the income above this limit for the balancing of income. The impact is now gradually stepped down to 130 pst. Municipalities with tax income below 110 pst. the average is compensated by this balancing of income. The regional grant, the North Norway grant and the capital grant are maintained and ordinary judgement is maintained. In addition, two new housing criteria are introduced to compensate for decentralised primary school structures. The tax share of the municipalities is increased to 46 pst. as from 2001. Here the Government proposed about 44 p.m., from 2002. So the committee goes a little bit further and a little bit faster. The aim is to increase the tax rate over a period to 50 pst. This means that municipalities are rewarded if they create a broader tax base locally. This again implies that we now have a majority in the municipal committee to start a work that will provide a fairer income system for municipalities over time. We'll see a redistribution, where densely populated areas with low tax income get a larger share of cake than before. Now the population here should also be able to have an equivalent service offer, like the rest of the country's population. The majority of the Municipal Committee supports the Government’s proposal for a plan for the inclusion/disclosure of earmarked grants. As early as 2001, the inclusion and winding-up of earmarked grants began. Money released by inclusion passes into the four funds of the municipalities. It is underlined in the preamble that the inclusion and winding-up of earmarked funds is a way of terminating the state-level detailed management of the local government sector. This is once again a contribution to a better local democracy, where people actually get better influence in the community. The inclusion of earmarked grants is cost-effective and contributes to the release of resources from administration to municipal service production. Let me summarise: the increase in free income for 2001 will, together with an increased framework and inclusion of earmarked grants, contribute to increased freedom of action for the local government sector. The fire action is going as planned. The Committee thus gives full support to a plan initiated by the Workers' Party in its time and through which we got through in the United Kingdom: the action plan for the care of the elderly. The Workers' Party was adopted to adopt the old-age plan and the Committee is behind the follow-up to the old-age scheme as planned. A unanimous committee endorses the Government’s proposal to extend the undertaking framework for the start-up grant for the construction of nursing homes and homes, with a focus on places for people with the most extensive care needs, and the proposal to escalate the operating grant by 800 million. kr. This means that the Government’s proposal for 5800 new nursing homes/housings will be supported in the coming year. The action plan for older people has been evaluated and is now being discussed in the Social Committee, such as: will clarify the fact that there is a difference between the actual plans of the municipalities and the development framework of the action plan. The case is finally dealt with until the autumn. For the Workers' Party, a strong public sector is the support pillar of the welfare society and the basis for ensuring equal living conditions. A majority of the Committee supports this and emphasises the desirability of a strong public sector in the future. This is good. Protecting our welfare state is a collective responsibility we have to hold together. For the Workers' Party, mobilising a strong defence for the public sector is a main task. The public sector shall be renewed, renewed to improve and renewed to provide a basis for increased resource use, more and better services and fairer distribution. Here too, we must stand together and contribute jointly to the renewal of the public sector. The working party cannot do this job alone. It is not possible for a single party alone to do the extensive job of renewing the public sector. That is why it is important that we, who want a strong public sector, stand together and contribute to this. In the case of the income system, it is positive for the Workers' Party that we received a majority for the liquidation of the loss compensation scheme. This is also the only area in which we compromise with the Right. Some try to present this as unpleasant to the Workers' Party. It's not. This is an agreement that the Workers' Party is comfortable with. It has positive effects on the local government sector, and it's a pleasure to get this through. Let me also say a few words about the development of nursing homes for the elderly. This is an ordinary municipal task. The adopted action plan for the current 4-year period constitutes a so-called state of emergency that has been put in place to remedy the inconsistency of municipalities. It thus becomes completely wrong when the impression is now that the action plan of the Igland administration binds the municipalities in the development. On the contrary, the action plan of the Igland government for the elderly was good for the elderly and for the municipal sector. There is no majority in the Committee to extend the framework for the construction of more units than the old-age plan provides. It is thus a misrepresentation when the centre parties, Right, Advance Party and SV say that they are already expanding the framework for the construction of nursing homes/holidays. In the resolution, a proposal was made to continue the older reform without restrictions until the Stortinget has dealt with St.meld. No 34 and decide whether to extend the plan. That's all. I would also like to give a brief explanation of vote. The Workers' Party will vote in favour of the Committee's proposal for Decisions I, III, VI and VII in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e272	It should be made clear in this debate that the Labour Party will once again impose increased taxes and tax burdens on the Norwegian people. In the proposal on the municipal economy for 2001, the Workers' Party, in effect, says that they will force the municipalities to impose property taxes. Just property taxes, which is one of the most unpopular, unfair, unsocial forms of taxing the Norwegian people that exists, will thus push the Workers' Party to push the municipalities to introduce. Why can the Labour Party not for once look at how things can be done cheaper, simpler, more efficient and more rational in the public sector, for example. by means of more market, more competition, rather than unilaterally always increasing taxes and taxes each time government needs more money to continue its inefficient operation? Why must increased taxes always be the only solution for the Workers' Party? And what kind of modernisation and renewal is there in these traditional grips? The Prime Minister has previously stated that the Workers' Party will win the next elections on achieved political results. Is it that one of these political results is that one has imposed as much of the country's inhabitants' property taxes as possible, I have to say I'm starting to cheat. Is the imposition of property taxes intended to make the Workers' Party the next winner of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e279	The representative of the Progress Party, Andersen, says that the Labour Party will impose increased taxes and burdens on the Norwegian people. When I go out on the street, I guess I see that people go down and bend their necks because the Workers' Party has introduced greater taxes and increased burdens. No, it's not like that. If we were to base the Advance Party's programme on our public sector investment, there wouldn't be 5 cents left. The programme of the Progress Party shows that their desire to reduce taxes and taxes has a magnitude of approx. 100 billion kroner, a quarter of the government's income. How much money do we have left to invest in services and welfare schemes for the Norwegian people? We also do not say in the recommendation that we force the municipalities to impose property taxes, but we say that the municipalities that choose to ignore an income potential have also chosen to have something less to travel with to expand the services for which the municipalities are responsible. We propose to look at possible incentives to make it more attractive for municipalities to exploit the income potential of the introduction of property taxes. That makes sense, and I think that's right to look into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e288	The central government of the Municipal Communities has great expectations of the consultation system. In an opinion of 30 May of this year: ‘In this context, it will be of great importance to reach a common understanding between the Government and the local government on the services that can be realised within defined income frameworks.’ At the same time, KS has said that a minimum increase of DKK 5 –7 billion is required. The government and an overall committee stress that there is a underbalance in the financing of the local government sector. What are the tasks of the Labour Party, with the income frameworks now proposed, that the municipal sector can no longer be able to implement? It is important that we not only give signals about all that the local government sector is going to do, but the local government is increasingly asking to be informed about what they should not do. With the framework set by the Labour Party and the majority, it will be impossible for a number of municipalities to avoid a reduction of important welfare services, according to the opinion of the National Council of the Municipal Council of 30 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e306	Let me first say that we are very pleased with the initiative that the previous government took when it came to introducing the consultation system. We think it's good, and that's the feedback we've received from the Municipality's Central Association, too. The setting indicates that we need to look at this consultation system along the way. We need to see if it is possible to expand it, not so that it becomes almost a negotiating forum, but so that it meets the needs of the parties. Then the representative of Østberg questions what kind of tasks must be taken from the municipalities, provided that they do not power them on the basis of the financial framework they receive. I have no answer to that, but it is one of the elements that this consultation forum must consider, namely whether the tasks given to the municipalities are proportionate to the financial framework they are faced with. Let me also say that when the central parties in the suspension propose to increase the income of the local government sector by approximately. One billion kroner in addition to what the Government's proposal is, it's not what matters whether the municipalities will be able to carry out the tasks that they don't seem to be able to do today based on the financial frameworks that are present. It is likely that there will be a combination of opportunities to streamline the public sector, including the municipal sector – i.e. to renew the public sector in such a way as to release resources for the production of services – and a number of other elements that will also be of crucial importance for the ability of municipalities to carry out the tasks entrusted to them by government authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e317	I would like to say that I believe that the rapporteur made a somewhat special assessment of what is contained in our proposal relating to the care of the elderly. What actually lies there is that we do not take a stand on changes in the care of the elderly until the Stortinge has dealt with the action plan itself. That's what we're saying. At the same time, when we say that we are in favour of the scheme that is already there, in 5,800 places this year, there is a natural consequence that we will not be in favour of changes until we may have the matter processed for the autumn. But what we have said clearly about is the changes that the government has announced that the county officials will introduce in relation to how to deal with the applications, namely to set up quotas based on the fact that 24 400 seats are still to be filled. We don't want to be a guideline. We want it to be a regular treatment of applications in the same way as in previous years, we want approval of the applications that maintain a professionally sound level, and then we want to decide on the framework for the harvest as regards the number of places in this area. This is also in line with what the Right says about the earmarked arrangements. We have to decide on the level of them in connection with the treatment for the autumn. The government has not said how much money they want to spend on the psychiatry plan or other things in the community we have for treatment, so the Workers' Party must not now try to pretend that the signals given to the media about the applications that are available and to be processed are actually what the majority believe. What the Government has done in the form of establishing some allowances has not been supported by the Storting. And that's not going to happen. I have a specific question for the Workers' Party: why do they now believe that special incentives should be introduced in the municipal sector to introduce property taxes? There is a clear breach of that Council of State in a response to an interpellation on 30 May, justifying the Workers' Party's position on property taxes. What is it that suddenly makes it so important to stimulate the municipalities? Will the municipalities that introduce property taxes receive an additional bonus for that in the future? Then the violation of the principle of volunteering is very great. I believe that the Labour Party should justify its views more closely when they have tried to hold back in other areas, for example. at the level of activity. Clearly, increased property taxes increase activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e330	I hear what the representative Solberg says in relation to what the committee must have said about the elderly or the care of the elderly. I didn't say anything other than that representative Solberg here produced that, but we use different words. My point was that the majority in the vote and in the proposal for a decision do not consider changes to the adopted plan. It's important for me to get there. These assessments will be taken when the Autumn Storing is to deal with the biggest report under consideration in the Social Committee. The government has never proposed allowances, as the representative from the Right here seeks to produce it as. But it is important to recognise that there is a difference between the municipal plans for the number of units and the plans on which the Stortinget has based its decision, and one has to deal with this deviation. It is also important for me to stress that when the municipal sector is to establish better and more comprehensive care for the elderly, care must be taken as a starting point and not allow this to become a building reform, a housing reform. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to focus on care for the elderly, which must be the driving force in the development and development of care for the elderly. It's enough that we have to have a balance between nursing homes on the one hand and nursing homes on the other, and that's this balance I feel it's taken into account in the letter to the countyers. Just very briefly about the property tax: I don't see what can possibly be done, but I would like to point out that it must be possible to look at the possibilities and possibly come back to how to create those incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e341	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e345	First, I want to say to the representative Odd Eriksen that he is a good example of the Nordics being good at telling the robber stories when he tries to produce our party program in the way he does. The municipal sector shall concentrate all its activities around defined and statutory primary tasks. Following the opinion of the Progress Party, the State shall ensure a good service provision within basic services such as health care, care for the elderly and schooling and that municipalities are given freedom to develop locally adapted services in addition to this. Municipal self-government must be strengthened. However, citizens also need to be guaranteed well-being, such as health, care and education without regard to each of them living and without regard for the local economy and priorities. The best way to do this is to ensure that these services are fully priced by the country. By releasing municipalities from the financial responsibility for these basic services, municipalities will have sufficient freedom to manage their other income and expenditure. This would also mean that, when adopting major new reforms, the Storting should secure the financial base. The way the system works today, responsible municipalities with good financial management are punished by the state taking the money from them and giving them to badly run municipalities. We want a new system where everyone gets the same basic privileges. Different municipal priorities will therefore no longer be able to weaken basic services towards the people. The introduction of target management, price financing, rationalisation and efficiency make it possible to make savings without reducing supply. The main objective of the party for progress is to increase the individual’s freedom of action. Security and joy of life are a prerequisite for individuals to feel that they have an impact on their own lives. As a result, the progress of the project is aimed at a society in which most decisions are taken directly by its inhabitants. Municipalities shall be living communities where people know their homes and can influence their everyday lives. As politicians, we still have to ask ourselves: What are the performances that the citizens want? The answer can be obtained through more contact with the basic plan, through public opinion, questionnaire or public meeting. Good economy is important for the provision of services. But local democracy has proved to be so vital when the economy is bad. The municipal sector as a whole seized large resources, and much could be saved by stimulating competition in municipal services. The municipality should gather its administrative offices in one service office, so that customers are not forced to run from one office to the other to arrange the same case. Municipal governance shall be a service body with primary tasks to assist the inhabitants. Politicians and bureaucrats should therefore not place unnecessary obstacles and bans on individuals, businesses, teams and organisations. The production of services may also be made by others than the public. The public finances and maintains control. As it is about ensuring individual freedom and security independently of every cage in the country, it is natural that the state assumes responsibility for this, not the municipalities. The municipal sector has high savings potential. If competition stimulates municipal services, not only technically simple ones, but also the heavy ones for health and care, the potential for savings is particularly high. This will lead to a better municipal economy. The State's financial cushioning between municipalities should be reduced and based on objective criteria. I find that despite the fact that one at several times has found that the hall of municipal property, such as the axes in power companies, and competitive incentives are better for the municipal economy, there are many municipalities that have not tried this, most based on the political principle. The distribution department here in the house has, on request from us, mapped the value of the power axes of the municipalities to over 200 billion kroner, with an annual return of 8 pst. If you sell them, something that shouldn't be a problem, you'll get about 16 billion dollars. It's actually $5 billion more than collecting the subsoil in the municipalities. This is, of course, a macro-economy, but it still shows that it is possible. If local authorities change the hold of these principles, the savings potential is high. So a little bit about the wage settlement: I want to refer to our alternative state budget, which, according to the Statistical Central Bureau, would improve the situation of the municipalities, corresponding to an increase in transfers of DKK 2.4 billion – and then the representative Eriksen can talk about not having five flat ears left – through monthly tax and tax breaks, lower inflation and reduced pay demands. This is a tool that the Government could have used before the year's payoff, without interfering with the declared, which could give a more reasonable figure to the municipalities. The passivity of the government helped to provide the municipalities with a declaration that was significantly more expensive than the national budget, so the municipalities should in our opinion have these additional expenditures compensated both for the current year and for the year 2001. We in the Progress Party take a positive view that municipalities voluntarily merge, and that this is facilitated. A similar base for all municipalities seems to be a barrier to bundling municipalities, because a merger will result in the loss of a base asset after a period of time. The natural thing is to dissociate the scheme with the basic idea, so that it becomes the municipalities that make the choice not to merge, that have to bear the costs of their choice, and so that the municipalities that make a merger choice will have the benefits of doing so. Here it should also be appropriate to talk about the county municipality. Prime Minister Stoltenberg has said that it costs 3 billion kroner to administer the county municipality politically, and then it is not unproblematic, I – it should not be for the Labour Party either – think that I am involved in a proposal to shut down the county municipality and use the 3 billion dollars to strengthen the free income of the municipal sector via objective criteria. It's interesting to note that the leader of the left now has also started talking about shutting down the county council. The scan mail must be gradually removed and not increased. The important thing is that a user has an objective criterion. Local authorities must be given greater financial responsibility by reducing the state financial transfer between municipalities and by basing it on objective criteria, as is the case in Rattsø I and II, through the local community. A system must be set up to promote municipalities that address the challenges themselves and take action to increase the income base. It is not fair for such municipalities to be punished, as the system is today, cf. the loss of corporation tax, by introducing a tax equalisation of income which benefits the municipalities which do little or nothing to improve their own situation. We in the Progress Party also believe that earmarks must be reduced and removed in the long term. But this only applies to ear-marked additions that are of a general nature and that were created to influence priorities between different tasks. Eye-marked contributions, which are in practice part-price financing for services, are not of the type of support that needs to be reduced or removed, as these are ear-marked contributions that have an efficiency-enhancing effect. A few words about heavy user schemes that don't work the way they are today. They cannot function until they receive a single price finance as proposed by the SV and the Progress Party in this debate. I would also like to argue that the heavy users with the greatest possible damage should perhaps consider using the provision of institutions, through cooperation across municipal borders. I would also like to refer to the letter of 19 May 2000 from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the statesmen. It is incredible to me that the Social Council replied to the representative Nesvik on 7 June, in the middle of the discussion of the municipal economic proposition, that she did not intend to withdraw the letter, knowing that there was a discussion about it in the committee, and that there was a number that actually asked for the letter to be withdrawn, as the comments now show. We now demand that the letter be withdrawn, and that nothing be done before the processing of the groceries message to the cottage. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, alone or together with others. They are included in the setting on pages 61 and 62.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e396	Lodve Solholm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e401	President! Can I get the floor for a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e406	The President will ask the representative Eriksen to come up here, and then he will have to explain it gradually. But we're going to start the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e409	I'm not going to try to make a robbery story, even though Lodve Solholm claims that what we in the Workers' Party refer to in the program to the Progress Party is a robber's story. In a society where private wealth flourishes alongside public poverty, and where individualism and greed are getting more and more footholds, it is a major challenge to listen to a solidarity policy. The Labour Party believes that a bet on public employees will ensure a well-functioning and efficient municipal sector. Through competitive outsourcing and bets on private solutions – and through the line we just heard from the Progress Party – the Progress Party signals that the employees in the municipalities are not good enough. The Progress Party shows that they have no vision of how the public sector is to develop and operate. Converting the municipal sector, which has a location between 600 000 and 700000 employees, is a huge challenge, but far from impossible. We just have to make sure that there are both jobs and employees to include in the process. My question to the Progress Party is: What will they do with the recruitment of the municipalities, especially in the care and care professions, without the one-sided, eternal mass of privatisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e418	The representative Lund said he shouldn't tell an ass story, but that's exactly what he did. Once again he tries to present it as saying that the public don't add enough. We've never said that. What we want in the Progress Party is that every single person who lives in this country, regardless of the thickness of the wallet, will have the same supply, without regard to where in the country they live, without regard for the municipal economy and without regard for municipal priority when it comes to basic services for health, care and education. We've never said that the public don't add enough. What we've said, that's that we want to get the most out of the heads we blow into the public space. And then we say: Let there be competition between public producers and private producers! But it is clear that if there are some private producers, where are they going to pick up their employees? Well, they might have to pick them up from the public, and so there's a signal that they're quite good. It's clear that those who work in public are good enough, but maybe we should have some incentives to even do our best. Maybe we should all have that. In this way I will quote my old ped.-teacher on the teacher's ball. He said, "The day they're satisfied with you as teachers, they're going to write off your request." Maybe that should apply to us politicians too. The day we're naked with ourselves, we should end up as politicians. We have to work hard all the time to do the best, to make everyday life the best possible for our fellow human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e425	The President would also point out that she hopes that this debate will not be filled with too many robber stories, and may recommend that you have a different language.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e428	I'm not going to tell robber stories, I'm going to ask questions. I have understood that the Advance Party agrees with all of us that we should have the most out of the public dollars. I have not experienced that any party does not want it. However, I have often heard criticism that in Norway there is going to be equal offers for everyone, that we should not tolerate any differences, yes, someone has criticized those who are in power, to make an A4 offer. I am therefore surprised that the Progress Party will have a similar offer for everyone, wherever they live, regardless of the local economy. At the same time, the representative of Solholm says in his statement that the Progress Party will have a system in which to punish the most badly run municipalities, and then the individual will have the freedom to choose exactly as it pleases. And then you speak in favour of local democracy, and then you propose to remove the regional subsidy and the North Norway grant, which has just a regional policy justification. You need health everywhere you have to live, but you add up to a policy where Coast Norway is at risk of a strong disintegration of the population. How are these things hanging in hand? There are a number of contradictions, as I experience the presentation of the policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e437	I don't expect the Christian People's Party to understand so much of a new system when you've dug yourself into an old system. I have also not said that one should punish bad municipalities. I've said not to punish municipalities that really do something themselves to create their own incomes. But one is not required to punish badly run municipalities for it. One just doesn't have to introduce them, just like the system is today, that one takes away from those who might do something by themselves, cf. then the Christian People's Party, etc. took from the municipalities the corporate tax and added it to the distribution pot. There's one system. When a single price funder finances health, care and education through a government-funded responsibility, it has nothing to do with municipal economy when our system comes in. So we can take away the regional advantage, and we can take away the North Norway bill and let it go into the pot that's going to cover up the piece price financing with state financial responsibility for health, care and education. It's possible that I have to spend a little more time than a line change to get the representatives of the Christian People's Party to understand that, but I'll take that time. I expect that I will have time to do it beyond the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e448	The president hopes it doesn't happen from the Stockholm pulpit, because she doesn't think it's time for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e451	So far, the cord shift has been marked by many general issues. I want to go to work quite concretely in relation to two proposals that are in the position that are of relatively important importance and that I have been amazed that the Progress Party is not in. One is proposal No. 6, where the Right has brought with it the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, to look at another income equalization than the one we have today, a balance that gradually decreases when the income reaches 100 pst. of the average. I know that the Progress Party initially wants even less revenue balancing, but I have been amazed that the Progress Party will not contribute to the majority in the vote for this. It is an investigation proposal and perhaps something that should have been the second best for the Progress Party. I hope that it is simply because you have not thought carefully through this, and perhaps you can reconsider the position during the debate. This corresponds to the wish that has come from representatives of the 22 municipalities that have been gathered in Kristiansand, which represents almost 50 pst. on the basis of population, and wishing to achieve a levelling-off of income which gives greater incentives both for economic development, which the Progress Party has fully agreed with the Right in has been important and in relation to tax collection. That's why I think it's so illogical that the Progress Party is not involved, and so they can decide that there will be a majority for this later today if they now choose to be involved. The second proposal, which I am also somewhat disappointed that we are not in favour of, is proposal No. 21, from the Right, which again is a proposal that it would be natural from the rhetoric that the Progress Party was in. It is a proposal concerning the establishment of a professional basis for the transposition and further development of criteria for the Russian/social situation of both municipalities and counties. These are the questions the cities have raised. Cities want to have legitimised changes because they have special social conditions in cities that they believe should be taken into account more fully in the income system. It's completely at the heart of what Oslo argues for, but it also applies to the other cities. Based on the signals the party has given earlier, I think it is a little illogical that the party is not involved in this, and I would like to be reviewed again today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e463	Now one should perhaps not prejudge the vote later today, but it is clear that the Progress Party – even if we are not the proposer or the co-sponsor – is considering all the proposals against how we should vote when we are going to vote once in the night. In this way, I promise that I will not overinterpret the representative of Østberg from the pulpit, but that I will take it at other times. I would say that it is part of what is in the proposals and the premises that we have not wanted to be present, but we are constantly considering how to give our vote to the individual proposals when we arrive at the vote at night.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e470	The cord shift is over. The rapporteur, Odd Eriksen, has made it probable to the President that there may have been a misunderstanding with Lodve Solholm's statements, and that it might be useful to clarify this already now, in the event that it could have an impact on the further debate. The President therefore allows the rapporteur to clarify any misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e475	Thank you. I asked for the floor for a manifest misunderstanding because the representative Solholm referred to a sentence in the vote on which the committee agreed to be deleted, but which, by mistake, still stands there. As a result, a new, enriched setting is available during printing. This is not just an obvious misunderstanding; this is an premature and unreasonably way of using internal discussions within the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e484	Does Lodve Solholm have any reason to comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e487	I just stick to the document I have here, and there's a little sentence. I was unfortunately not present at the delivery meeting, and I have not been informed that it is the line in the document I have read and ordered.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e492	It is then possible to assume that the information provided by the rapporteur is correct and that it is taken into account in the further debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e495	In its general comments on the local economy, the majority of the Committee, which is part of the Christian People's Party, states that the local economy cannot be seen in isolation from the general economic development of the country. Yesterday's increase in interest rates from the Bank of Norway underlines the importance of keeping budgetary policies tight. to safeguard employment and to prevent further interest rises. An overall committee has then also noted that the Government is aware of the imbalance in the finances of the local government, and considers that the State has a responsibility to contribute to the correction of this imbalance in the coming years. The consultation system with the municipal sector introduced by the Bondevik government is important for understanding the sector’s situation. There's no longer any reason to doubt the reality description. When KS claims that the local government sector needs an increase of NOK 5-7 billion, the Christian People's Party takes this seriously. Our proposal – where we are with the Center Party – that the real growth in the total income of the municipal sector from 2000 to 2001 is DKK 5 billion – is in many ways the most important thing. If we are to have consultations to achieve a common sense of reality, we must also take into account the reality we agree on. The Christian People's Party wants to use the whole country. Therefore it is important to continue the work to slow down the movement flow, stop it and preferably turn it around. The results of the regional and regional policies that have been pursued in recent years show happy results. In our work on changing the income system, we must take this into account and ensure that there is still life in District and Coast Norway. We and the future generations need the entire country for the value creation that is needed to preserve Velferds-Norway. A fair income system takes into account that people have to live widely, that distances are large, and that the climate is different in our long-term country. In the municipal economic proposition, the Government initially stated twice that the Government reserves the right to tighten the financial structure of the municipal sector if the economic situation so warrants when the government budget proposal is submitted to the harvest. In the difficult economic situation of the Municipality of Norway, it's not what the government should send. The twelve working party rapporteurs and 13 group leaders in my own state of Troms have sent a letter to the Government on the municipal economy. There is not only a demand for more money here, but there is a demand that none of the municipalities be allowed to reduce their freedom of action. The Christian People's Party had a desire to provide a majority for an improved local economy, along with the other centre parties and the Workers' Party, as in previous years. The working party selected on the right. It is not right that Prime Minister Stoltenberg said about yesterday's debate about the defrosting message, where he claimed that the welfare state's security was just at the crossroads between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre parties. The Christian People's Party agrees, in principle, that we must complete the loss compensation over five years from 2002, but requires a proper evaluation first. Several criteria are missing, such as: climate, ambulance costs, healthcare costs in municipalities and counties with long distances and scattered settlements — to name a few. The Christian People's Party also agrees that we should maintain the regional grant and the North Norway grant, but is deeply disappointed that the Government has not proposed price adjustment of the grant, as the Bondevik government has done in recent years. The fact that the Progress Party proposes to remove the North Norway grant shows that they have not understood the challenges and great value creation of the continent. If fishing and farming are to be future industries in Norway, people must live along the coast of North Norway. The Christian People's Party wants to give Municipality-Norway greater freedom of action. In that case, the free revenues must be increased and earmarked resources reduced. It's not the number, it's the volume that's critical. Today there are almost 34 billion kroner with earmarked grants. The government proposes a reduction of DKr 1.1 billion. It is the general earmarked grants that operate throughout the country, which must be integrated into the income system, not the small targeted grants that operate in relation to specific functions or parts of the country. I see the Government's proposal as directly anti-cultural. The grant for county cultural tasks is only 9.5 million. kr and grants for, inter alia: five district exhibitions and 13 regional art centres. The grant for performing arts in the counties is one way of paying the grant to the cultural boat Innvik. The grant's only 2.5 million. kr and paid through two counties. In the last two years, the boat has toured from Finnmark to Agder. The boat is excellent for tour use, especially in the districts. Not all smaller municipalities on the outskirts have facilities suitable for theatres, but most have a berth where «Innvik» can be located. The cultural boat brings culture throughout the country and is well suited for the decentralisation of the cultural offer. The cultural boat ‘Innvik’ is the fishing, maritime and coastal nation of Norway worthy. There will be a disaster for the investment and operation of book buses if the grant to mobile library services and library facilities is terminated. It's a strange suggestion all the time the ABM message – archives, libraries and museums – is for treatment in Stortinget. Library premises have 79 projects with a lag of 24.6 million. kr to currently available eligible library premises. In the examination of the Family Protection Offices Act in 1997, it was clearly stated that the grant should be earmarked. During the 1999 budgetary procedure, this was underlined again in agreement with the Workers' Party. The Christian People's Party sees the government's proposal as a clear breach of agreement. The Christian People's Party's proposals in connection with earmarked grants increase the volume in the number of crowns incorporated, compared to the Government's proposals. The municipalities of Troms and Finnmark have experienced extreme weather and snow conditions this year. Fatal accidents, evacuation, closed roads due to race and scrapie have been the normal situation in winter. The Minister of Local Affairs has visited, among other things: Hammerfest. I have visited Lyngen myself, where five lives were lost when a bus was sweeping at sea. Proposal for a transfer of 15 million. kr to Statens Naturskapfond for use for ski protection in municipalities is too small. The Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party and SV, proposes a doubling of this amount. Thirty million. kr is probably not enough either, but represents a significant improvement. The right-wing rapporteur, along with the rapporteurs of the Workers' Party in Nord-Troms, will find it difficult to understand the lack of support for the proposal. The Christian People's Party's support for the divisional grant has an important premise: municipal mergers should be initiated from the municipalities themselves and be voluntary. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the benefit of a municipal merger falls to the local environment and the municipalities themselves. In the interests of the small municipalities, it is important that the Committee’s position proposes to incorporate the regional grant into the breakdown grant for municipalities that would lose this grant by pooling. The Christian People's Party wants justice in the income system, therefore the proposal to compensate for today's rules for the municipalities that were coerced in 1991. I think especially of Arendal and Fredrikstad. We had a debate both yesterday and today on the letter of 19 May and the dramatic and unacceptable cut that we have received in the care plans for the elderly. There is no doubt that the Kommune-Norway feels that this letter introduces quotas that they cannot live with. In my own state - Troms - the planes of 1,800 units have been reduced to 785 units. So this means a reduction in terms of plans over 1,000 places, with more than 50 pst. This is not acceptable. That is why we have promoted the proposal that we have made. Finally, I should like to raise a point of order. 5 and No 6, which the Christian People's Party has together with the Right and the Center Party, the proposals No. 9-13, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, and the proposals No. 14 and 15, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. I would point out that in proposal No. 13 must have crept into a typographical error. It says: ‘The following proposals are maintained as eartags’. It shall read: ‘The following grants shall be maintained as the eartag’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e557	The representative of Østberg has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e562	I want to get hold of the last representative of Østberg was involved in his post, the older reform. The size should be able to agree that the older reform we are now halfway into has been a very positive reform in the municipalities. I look at the setting that the Christian People's Party will ‘... continue the older reform without restriction of approvals of new projects until the Stortinget has addressed St. meld. No 34 and decide whether to extend the plan». [[1999 - 2000]] Is not the Christian People’s Party afraid that this could lead to a situation in which those who seek first get their plans approved, while the real need comes second? In case it is decided to extend the older reform until the harvest, as the Christian People's Party also suggests, how many billions will the party then enter into an extended plan, and how will the party finance this in the event? Should other things be cut, or should you bring in new, healthy billions? As rapporteur for Mr St.meld. No 34 I am particularly concerned about how the Christian People's Party will deal with this. After all, it's not more than a year and a half since the Christian People's Party in the government position proposed to extend by two years the period of seniority that we're in, but didn't get it through.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e574	There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party sees the reform of the elderly as a positive reform. There was a debate in advance of this reform. The parties had different suggestions on how to strengthen care for the elderly, and one could not reach an agreement until one said that now we have to stop arguing. We were then given the proposal for the reform, and it was unanimously in favour of it. The reform is extremely positive. The fact that we have previously suggested that we should spend longer is well known. It's also the signals coming from the municipalities that they could take longer. No – The Christian People’s Party does not want ‘the first to come to the mill to get painted’. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes that the government be asked to come up with a scheme that not only extends but extends the reform. There is no doubt in my mind that there is a need for several of the plans that are now in place, both in the representatives of Arnesens and my home country, Troms, which according to the letter of 19 May cannot be implemented. The municipalities of Tromsø and Harstad, the two densely populated areas, have plans for hospitalization, but have already been informed that according to the letter of 19 May they cannot implement these plans. It's not worth the old-fashioned reform. The extent to which it will be extended will be the subject of both the debate on St.meld. No 34 and the government's subsequent proposals, and the debate on it, decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e582	I guess it was a little bit about North Norway again, and I just have to replicate to the Christian People's Party. The representative didn't understand how to remove the North Norway bill and still have people in North Norway. Yau – In contrast to the Christian People’s Party, who wants to tax the people to the bitter end, let the creation of value remain where it is created, and then we don’t need any Nord-Noreg initiative, then we don’t need regional initiative either, and then we don’t need tax-seekers who are going to collect taxes and charges, so to sit in this room to distribute this again almost according to their own understanding. Then back to the tax-paying party of the Christian People's Party, to which Ivar Østberg belongs. He now wants to strengthen the ability of local authorities to collect property taxes, in particular perhaps imposing a greater tax burden on the older generation. People who have built houses, who now live in areas that may be highly valued, as a minimum pension, will pay a new tax on money that they have paid taxes on before, simply their savings, which they may have saved by giving up vacations to pay down houses and homes and get a housing for their old age. So the Christian People's Party will force the municipalities to grab even more money from this human being, because we all know that those who are with the greatest possessions are always able to get away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e589	The representative, Solholm, has confessed that he was not attending the delivery meeting itself. But he has been in the process, and if he had followed in what the Christian People's Party stands for, he would have known that he is not telling the truth when he says that we will oblige the municipalities to impose property taxes. The Christian People's Party has stressed that this is a voluntary matter, while we fully agree that it is little tricked by municipalities that do not introduce property taxes, to care for bad advice. If we are tax-seekers – the eyes that see it will well be able to assess it. I don't know if that's the kind of horny or other horny thing we have. However, we agree with the Progress Party that pollution, for example. should pay for the pollution, and then we sometimes have to add some taxes to get to it. I wonder if the Progress Party has gone away from that principle. So the representative, Solholm, says that the values should be where they are created. That's exactly what I'm talking about. located in the North Norway grant, to restore some of the values. In Kvænangen municipality, with its approx. 1,500 people, they produce per person. head of between 150000 and 200000 kroner in export income to the country. I would like to see if some of the central strokes that the Progress Party would like to strengthen produce too much export value.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e600	In this setting, the central parts and SV are joined by multiple comments. We say that it is most important to solve well-being tasks first, rather than to increase private consumption of those with the highest income and wealth. We also say that it is necessary to strengthen school, health and care, and that can be done by redistributing from other sectors and by increasing the tax on the large capital income. And I'm startled to see that while we're dealing with the municipal economic proposition, the central parties are involved in securing a majority in order to give NOK 2.4 billion in tax credits to the richest. They're getting fish. While the tax conversion that the central parties and SV agree on, and that we had to reconcile forces to get the Workers' Party involved, namely to tax dividends on the recipient's hand, it should wait. In the meantime, the revenues for which we are to ensure better health and school will run away between the fingers. So I actually don't think of the Christian People's Party as a special tax party, on the contrary, I'm afraid they're running a double race that makes us not doing the most important problems first. I wish that Østberg could perhaps explain why they are opting for this aimless tax policy strategy. Then I would like to ask the Christian People's Party if they can justify why they do not support the SV's and the Progress Party's proposal on unit-price financing for particularly resource-intensive users. This is to provide these users with a safe, stable and good year-to-year offer. There's nothing that's so bad for discretion like this. If we had managed to ensure this, we would have given these users a security first, and we would also have made a substantial boost for many small municipalities where this is a cost they don't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e609	When the Advance Party accuses us of being tax collectors and SV accuses us of not charging taxes, I expect that we have found a good balance between extremes. There belongs to the Christian People's Party. We stand for what we have said in the setting. In the case of resource-intensive users, the Christian People's Party is engaged in that scheme. We are pleased that the scheme was introduced, and we are concerned that the scheme should not be as good and targeted as it should be, if we are dependent on random judgement. The proposal promoted by the Progress Party and SV requires a 100 pst. top-level government funding. We don't think that's the right principle. We believe that it should also be more than 600 000 kroner, as proposed by the SV and the Progress Party, as well. The representative Karin Andersen knows we've discussed that, but we couldn't agree on that in this round. But I don't ignore the fact that we have to go over to a scheme where this becomes a kind of price finance, where we're free from discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e616	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e619	There is no doubt that Norwegian municipalities currently have a very difficult financial situation. Most municipalities are facing large conversion programmes to bring activity and income together. Part of this is the responsibility of Stortingen, and part of it is the responsibility of the municipalities. We are in a situation where the national economy is a high level of activity, creating a strenuous labour market situation. So there is a situation of problems in the local economy, while we need tight macroeconomic governance, and a number of national programmes that have seized large parts of the growth in the municipal sector. We have seen a strong earmarking of grants and a low growth in free income in all the years of the 1990s. This has been complemented by a general trend in terms of more rights legislation, increased detailed management through laws, regulations and circulars to the local government sector. All of this means that it is more difficult to streamline the effectiveness of each municipality, because many barriers are encountered to think new, different, or to organise themselves in ways other than those provided for in the government plans. Reporting practices and legislation and financial conditions often limit local solutions. We have a responsibility to do something about this development. Municipalities also have a responsibility, and the responsibility is to operate as efficiently as possible within the framework they have. There we find that, for political reasons, some municipalities choose to do something other than center their services, because they are politically opposed, for example. tendering procedures, and thus the possibility of getting more money for more services. For the Right, the key to the local economy has been in recent years: more free income, reduction in earmarked funds, reductions in law and regulation. And as a parentheses: I often notice that the centre parties and the Workers' Party are squeezing about who has the credit for the so-called simplification that is taking place in the municipal sector. I just remember that it took a year before the central government was willing to comply with the decision of the majority of the local democracy debate to launch such a programme. They came late. They might have come in well, but they were late. For the Right, it has been important that the financial framework for 2001 should mean a real increase in the free revenues in order to give municipalities a better space for action. We have therefore supported the Government's commitment of SEK 1.5 to 2 billion in increased free revenues next year, and have said at the same time that the assessment of the level of the various earmarked schemes needs to be brought back in the context of the budget. It is also important to stress that what we are dealing with today is the income side of the municipal economy. What municipalities are actually going to get for the increased frameworks will only become clear when the budget is being treated for the autumn and what new creative spending proposals have to come both from the Government and from other parties on the Stortinget, for example. related to tax and tax proposals or components of employers' welfare schemes. This is as decisive as the income side of what municipalities can actually do next year. We also agree that a greater proportion of the free income must go to the counties rather than the primary municipalities, because there is a greater acute economic crisis in the county municipalities. This is also reflected in the approach taken by the Right in the context of hospital treatment, in the revised national budget for 2000. Although we agree with the Labour Party in the overall framework, we would have wanted a different distribution in the budget line for 2000 than the Government. We wanted to freeze the introduction of the loss compensation and the regional grant at the 2000 level, as we also proposed for the current year. We wanted an increase in the tax rate as early as 2001. The redistribution profile has not been endorsed by other parties, and we have therefore chosen to support the Government's distribution structure with the substantial change for which there is now a broad majority in the Committee, that the tax share of revenue should be increased to 46 pst. already from next year. For the right, this has been important, because by every crossroad in the last six years, we have countered lowering the taxpayer and thus the tax revenue share of the free income. From now on, wanting to increase the tax rate has been repeated by the majority over the last two years, without having been able to go that way in practice. Now we get to a reverse operation that I hope will also have an effect beyond 2001, so that at least we reach the goal of 50 pst. fast, maybe even more. The government has adorned itself with the proposal that 14 earmarked grants have been discontinued or incorporated into the income system from 2001. The right proposed the inclusion of eartags already last year. But there is a big difference between the proposals made by the Right and the proposals made by the Government. While the Right had a major emphasis on proposals that would give more free income to the primary municipalities, almost all the major grants proposed by the Government are linked to conversions towards the county municipalities. Thus, the government's conversion of earmarked funds for 2001 would have no particular impact on the primary municipalities, where it might be the most necessary. That is why I am pleased that this year we have received a majority in favour of the inclusion of the school leisure scheme from the school year 2001 to 2002. It actually gives a change to this also for the primary municipalities. A large part of the position we have to deal with today is about the leadership of the future income system. It is a long way to go in our opinion before we get into an income system that ensures the three main considerations Right-wing believes that an income system for municipalities should be built on. One main point is that transfers should be based primarily on objective criteria, i.e.: taking into account the different possibilities of municipalities in relation to the costs of providing an equivalent level of service. The second important point is that the income system must stimulate municipalities to increase value creation in their own municipality. The third point is that the income system should stimulate local self-government. It is a strange logic that those who have been given too much before will still get too much. It is equally strange that when you remove a loss compensation, you introduce new compensation schemes for loss compensation. I had wanted a little more political courage from the Government in this matter. We originally wanted a faster pace, but we are committed to ensuring the pace the Government has set, so that we are sure that the loss compensation system will be history in a few years' time. When we're done building up the loss compensation system, 13 years have passed since the Stortinget found that there was a need to do something about the distribution between municipalities, and it's been 15 years since the Right took up the first proposal on this. But the lack of perfection in the income system must not lead to paralysis of actions, and I believe that the centre parties have got that. We have identified several areas that we also believe should be further explored. We believe that the problem of drug use and the social conditions of the community sector, not only for the county sector, need to be addressed, not least in order to get a proper assessment of whether there are several cities in Norway that should have had compensation for special circumstances in this area. It is the turn of proposal No. 21 says about. I'm amazed that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are not in it, because in their comments they give that kind of signals. At the same time, Anita Apelthun Seele has gone out and said that this is she for the future to be a big city grant and not just a capital grant. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to identify the objective areas to be compensated for. We have received a broad majority of our wishes for a review of the income system in relation to the problems of the growth municipalities, including their problems related to capital expenditure. We see a clear need to align the population on which the framework allocations will be based, but we are not ready to conclude per year. 1 October, as proposed by the Centre Parties. We mean, for example: that elements of growth projections can be one thought, adjustments after six months, e.g.: may be another. So we're going to have to find out more about this in order to get a sure foundation for how we integrate these problems, and we're not going to conclude until we actually see the results of this investigation. We are also pleased that, together with the Workers' Party, we will have a majority to review the level of the three specific components of the income system, the North Norway grant, the regional grant and the capital grant, to obtain a clearer justification for what to compensate for through these schemes and whether the level is correct from there. We believe that this is the basis for assessing whether we do not tend to lubricate too often in any of these areas, without clearly specifying why this is actually done, and that this is some of the lack of political courage I mentioned earlier. What we have not yet received a majority for, for which we believe to be essential, is a review of the way in which revenue balancing in the system should be. We think that important input has been received from, among others. the major meeting held in Kristiansand on the local economy. It is in line with the wishes that we have thought should be reconsidered, as we also advised in an interpellation debate early in May. Now I have heard that the Advance Party will assess this beyond night, and hope that we can come a little happier from the final votes when the Advance Party has completed this assessment. It would be illogical and enough surprising for the local politicians of the Progress Party if they were to say that we got such a rounding. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that the Right Party is promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e659	The representative Erna Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e664	Although Solberg's representative was not involved in the reform of the elderly and what is Right's opinion, I feel that I need to clarify some questions about it. On page 12 of the adjustment, the right hand side has the following comment: ‘These members nevertheless consider that final priorities between different tasks must be made by each local government or by the Stortinget as legislative and granting authority.’ The right is thus included in a unanimous comitology comment which underlines the need to prioritize the construction of places in the neighbourhood of people with the needs of good luck rather than general care housing. Whatever may result from the treatment of St. Announcement. No 34, doesn't the Right see that someone has to give priority to the older ones, those with a need for luck? Then we have the problem as, among other things, Bærum municipality is up in, where they plan both nursing homes and permanent nursing homes in the south. Does the representative of Solberg think this harmonizes with the unanimous comitology that says that we must give priority to building in the local environment? To give priority is to say no to something. My question will therefore be: Who does the Right think should make the priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e677	Of course, if you take notes out of their context, you'll be able to read aloud from all of the parties' comments and view them as inconsistent. The first note read by the representative Gaundal is a comment on the majority’s comment on what these talks between the Government and the KS should be about, where we have stressed that those who actually make the priorities must either be this hall or the local government. There are no political priorities to be set between municipalities or others in the negotiations between the KS and the Government. So it has nothing to do with the relationship between what's going to be distributed by the Storting and what's distributed in the local government. We want to have the least possible leads from Stortinget on further follow-up to those areas where there are no special measures. However, with regard to the action plan itself, which is the debate in question, it is a problem that we have to take the consequences of making an action plan. And that's what we do in many ways. Once we have begun to prioritise and to develop specific areas, as we have done with the elderly care plan, we need to complete it. I really think that, for example. The government’s attitude toward 24,400 as a religious number is relatively naive. Because it is known that the consequences of introducing earmarked schemes are that more people rely on them. It is one of the system problems with an ear-marked system that more people are going to report than they had from needs analysis — especially those municipalities that could afford a little better and that might not have had the biggest problems in the care of the elderly. That's the part of the care package. So I think that the treatment of the harvest is going to lead to a higher number. I think I can say that already today. There's going to be a conclusion on a higher number for the harvest. But where it is, and how much it is, you have to go through the Storting and look at what is the real thing. And then we have to start setting the professional requirements related to it. I don't think I should oversee a local government that had to choose, for example. to send some of the elderly to the South. They must be allowed to do that. I think the most important thing is that it's the individuals you give priority to, and not just the politicians' desire to label something.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e690	Right-wing support is being given today by the Workers' Party Government at a decisive point in the highest premise of the 2001 municipal economy: a framework of DKK 3.5 to 4 billion in relation to the revised national budget, a signal on the conversion of the income system with dramatic reductions for the smaller municipalities, an overstimulation of municipal convergence and a scheme for centralisation and for the reduction of the public sector. They also provide support for the liquidation of highly valuable cultural and environmental activities. Right now, the Labour Party has, quite rightly, been involved in the inclusion of mobile library services instead of liquidation. Nevertheless, the reactions to it indicate that winding-up may result. I have two questions for Erna Solberg. Firstly, is it surprising that the case-speaker in his production says that the Labour Party is seeking support from the Right at one point, simply for the termination of the loss compensation scheme, when the Right is providing support at a very central point, or else in the scheme? And question No. 2: Erna Solberg was out in various media demanding that the letter of 19 May on the elderly had to be withdrawn. There is something more fuzzy today, even though it is now forwarding a result of St. Report. No 34 containing more than one unit and several years. Is not the practical consequence of the plural comment it already contains, which provides a link to applications that satisfy existing requirements until the treatment of the Storting, just a signal that the quotas have to be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e701	On the last question, I will answer yes. It is true that the practical consequences are that the Government does not have the support of the Storting to practise any allowances until the Storting has been dealt with this action plan. And it is clear when we say that those who have plans that are professionally sustainable will get them approved. I understand why you've made the allowances, I just don't understand why you haven't made sure to get this into discussion, because it's such a strong intervention in relation to the Storting, for example. in the Community financial proposal. Now everything is in the action plan, and then it has to be dealt with at that time. But the government has no majority to practise any allowances. In practice, it must mean that the government – if they do not contact the statesmen and say that the content of the letter no longer applies – will have a problem with a large majority, if that is the consequence. When we have removed part of the comment that was originally, which everyone has been a part of removing, there is no one who has wanted to maintain it by the majority of the committee, it has been based on a wish from the government party not to instruct so clearly – they had taken the message, as I perceive it, for the longest time. When it comes to the question of what we have got the Workers' Party into or where we stand together, we actually only agreed with the Workers' Party in some areas. We agreed on a level of free revenues of SEK 1.5 to 2 billion. There was no need for us to discuss ourselves together, when we initially thought that the government had come up with something about where it was supposed to be. So you could say that that means that we're together. Well, that's okay, we can agree on whether what the Right believes or what the Government means. At some point, we have made sure that the municipalities get a clear answer now, instead of helping – because we had another type of device that we didn't know was going to get a majority – to make a political game up to the budget for the autumn. We've made sure it's not going to be such a political game, and at the same time we've made sure that we have a clear majority so that the loss compensation goes down, and a couple of other areas that I'd like to come back to later, but there were a lot of things to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e709	In the setting, the Right admits that there is a major imbalance now in the local economy, and that it has occurred in the years when the Right supported the budget lines, and last year, when they were willing to lay down on the same framework as the arrangement was – at least that was said. What SV is concerned about in this context is the very gap that is developing between the standard of services provided in the public sector and the standard in the private sector. On the school side, this is cutting, and right and left has been very much in agreement that something has to be done here. Yes, it has even become the case that the Right and SV now agree that the State must actually compensate for the necessary wage settlement that the State is selling to the teachers, so that the local government sector has some money to pay these salaries with, and that it should not go beyond the otherwise poor standard in the school. So far this is good. Then there are questions about the other services in the public sector, in the health care sector and in hospitals. What in the world is the reason why the Right is not able to follow the same reasoning there? Is it because the Right sees that there is a greater privatisation potential and wants the Community sector to have a competitive disadvantage in this area and to have to offer poorer pay and employment conditions for nurses, carers, etc. who will have these jobs, so that they will seek out of the public sector and over in private offerings? Is this a strategy – a privatisation strategy – from the Right, because they see that there is a larger market for private care and healthcare than it is on the school page? Does the Right not see that the reasoning they have in relation to school should be followed up so that it was compensated for the settlement of wages and salaries also in terms of health and care?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e718	We agree with SV on a desire to do something about the recruitment of teachers, and we agree with SV on a clear priority of school and school policy. But then I want to say that we stand apart for miles in terms of school policy content in very, very many areas. Clearly, we stand for a diametrically different perception of what is needed to make school what we want it to be, that is, a basis for creating knowledge, creating independent individuals and creating people who in the future can also contribute to both value creation and ensuring a good public sector in Norway. There are different road choices, and it is clear that much of our school policy is about content, while I think a lot of SV policy is about physical surroundings. We think the content here is quite important, and that's why we're so busy with the teachers. The teachers are actually the most important part of the content of the school, because we know that the difference in what a student learns during the years he goes to school, and how a student thrives in school, depends very much on the teacher's competence and knowledge, but also the human qualifications the teacher has. So to the question of health and care. The situation is that, on the teacher's side, the country that negotiates is, for the time being, the country that negotiates. It has made it easier for us to say something about the pay cut there, because it is the state that has had the negotiating bit. But it's clear that when we prioritize something, it means that we have to downgrade something else. This has led to the fact that there have been other groups of workers in the public sector that we have not given this clear priority to. But on the other hand, we have also contributed through the budget, for example. in the revised national budget, for a strong commitment to health. One of the reasons why we are committed to prioritizing more funds to the county councils than to the primary municipalities in the arrangement we agree with the Government is that we see that the county councils must be able to assume responsibility for operating their health sector properly. It's a priority area for the Right as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e725	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e728	Today's right-wing victories for the Government's proposal on what means municipalities and county councils are currently to be given to next year, including the following: to run kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly. It must be a crossroads of thought for many of the Workers' Party's own elected representatives in the Municipality of Norway that the Government presented a municipal scheme that the Right was ready to support from the first day. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Municipal Council stressed the importance of the Labour Party and the Centre Party being united in order to ensure a good welfare supply. The centre party proposes to increase the income of municipalities and county councils by NOK 5 billion in real terms next year compared to this year. We know that there is a need for additional funds. There is currently an imbalance between the tasks assigned to the municipalities and the resources available. The central government initiated a consultation arrangement with the Central Association of the Municipalities. We have great expectations of the basis that has now been laid for a common understanding of both deficits and challenges in the future. The Central Party takes seriously that many municipalities have heavy debts, and that the state is co-responsible through sub-funding of new reforms. There is an increase in activity and not an increase in income levels that create pressure in the Norwegian economy. If increased income in the municipal sector is used to restore the balance of the local economy in the event of debt cancellation, the effect will be greater free trade for many municipalities that are currently struggling. More people will then be able to continue their day’s supply, whether it concerns schooling, care and care, leisure activities, drug treatment or disability interventions. Unfortunately, the Labour Party's proposal involves difficult cuts for many. The many messages we have received to the committee from local and regional councils say so. So the background to the Center Party's proposal to abolish a debt restructuring scheme for municipalities and county councils is to give the municipalities some more freedom, but without contributing to an increase in the pressure on the economy. The systems must be fair. The municipalities and county councils which have shown good financial management, or which are in front of large investments, must receive their legitimate share of such handicrafts from the State. So for the conversion of the income system: the centre party is moving towards gradually removing the loss compensation from 2002. The government's proposal can have dramatic consequences for a number of small district municipalities. We will first have a thorough evaluation of the changes in the income system and a strengthening of the compositional criterion Later, corrected by the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, cf. page 3701. The Government's proposal to compensate for the loss compensation lost by giving back the ordinary discretion to the municipalities that will be affected reinforces the argument that other changes in the income system must be made before the loss compensation is removed. Municipal councillor Brustad said she presented the municipal council. The lack of income currently in place, combined with over-premiering at the time of a municipal merger, is a scheme for centralisation and a change in the municipal structure. Together with the Christian People's Party, we propose that the citizens' proposal be based on the population and the people's constitution 1 October of the previous year instead of 1 January. We know that this is a change that will mean a lot to the so-called municipalities of growth. The additional costs incurred by big cities, not least to meet major challenges in social care, psychiatry and drug abuse, are not adequately addressed by the income system criteria. A major urban initiative should be provided in order to better address these challenges. We're happy that the government is continuing its central government's work on adding ear-marked additions to the frame. We mean there is a big difference between including subsidies that apply to all municipalities, and removing subsidies that go to very special measures in a few municipalities or county municipalities. We are sorry that there are several numbers in the committee to remove both the innvik for the cultural boat, for the mobile library service and library facilities, and for the local Agenda 21, and we were satisfied that both Aktion Jærvasstläget and the landlines of the continuing school are still being taken care of. The centre party reacts strongly to the stop order before the care of the elderly that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has now given to the municipalities. In a letter dated 19 May, all statesmen have been allocated quotas. This has caused considerable concern when it comes to the follow-up to the action plan on care for the elderly. Several municipalities that have entered into all contracts and received pre-commitments from the Husbanken have now been asked to review their needs. There is a distance between their original 24400 units and their municipal plans. The Government must then prepare for the extension and extension of the old-age reform, so that municipalities can realize their plans and older caregivers ensure an equivalent offer, the same where in the country they live. We will come back to how many years, and the number of units, when St.meld. No 34 is to be dealt with, but I'm glad that the plural now makes it clear that planning and expansion are going on this year. We mean it's right to give that signal right now. I'm taking this up the Center Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e757	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e762	It was with interest that I heard Meltveit Kleppa's argument and proposals to strengthen the local economy. The Central Party has wanted to be a guarantor of good regional policy in recent years. The expectations were high when the Senter party joined the central government and also got the municipal minister. The centre party and the centre government were supposed to straighten out everything the Workers' Party had not completed in its reign. Instead of increased road appropriations, increased port development and, not least, strengthening municipal and county services, we felt that the beautiful promises were fading, and the money was lacking. Despite the fact that the Workers' Party got an increase of approx. EUR 1 billion for the municipal sector in the autumn of 1999, there is still a lot to be done again. These are measures supported by the Centre Party and the Centre Parties, but the measures have not been financially prioritised by the Centre Government. With regard to the municipal economy for 2001, there are many proposals in the right direction from the Labour Party. Conversion to a new income system and increased free resources can be mentioned by reducing designation. In addition, it is important to note that, despite its short term government, the Workers' Party places four times more in the pot for strengthening the municipal sector than the Centre Party and the Central Government did in their draft budget in the autumn of 1999. My question to the centre party at Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is therefore: When the centre party today goes out so hard and demands more money for the municipal sector and the public sector than what they prioritised a short time ago, we see that this is necessary, but why was not the same aggression and suggestion used when they themselves put in government and could realize everything they are now proposing? Maybe it's related to the fact that economic reality shows something different if you're in opposition or in position – because it can't be about double standards, can it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e775	A slight backward look is needed, especially in the autumn of 1998, when the 1999 budget was to be laid down. What, then, was the situation in the Norwegian economy and in the international economy? That was one thing that was necessary, and that was to do what we could from the government's side to contribute to stability. Then it wasn't the question, neither in the municipal sector, nor in any other area, to increase the cost significantly, but actually how to get a cut of $9 billion. That was the situation for 1999. When it comes to the 2000 budget, it is clear that both the budget has been increased and important developments have been made in this area. Let me, when it comes to districts, point to offensive and active regional and regional policies, which are actually already producing results. The moving space was braked during the center management, an initiative was taken for a consultation with KS to bring out how the real situation in Kommune-Noreg is – that is, how we can get a common secret to talk about. It is assumed that in 1999 the deficit was estimated at NOK 3.6 billion from the government's side, the following year to NOK 3.4 billion. So it's going to be $11 billion and it looks like it's going to be the same this year. It is then necessary to discuss both how we can contribute to free means and how we can help to clean up debts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e782	The centre party would like to present itself as the rock in the defense of the municipalities, especially the small municipalities. The centre party has also helped us to have an income system that is largely created in its entire facility to favour small municipalities and the district districts of this country. But municipalities of another category become kind of losers. Had e.g. Grimstad municipality in East Agder, located in Finnmark, had received nearly 100 million. kr extra through the income system via the North Norway grant. In general, it appears that, in particular, medium-sized and slightly larger growth municipalities are losing out in today’s income system. The question is: are we going to continue to have it so that several municipalities are overrun with regional subsidies, North Norway grants, beauties, income-balancing, cost-balancing and in addition are compensated with differentiated employer fees, SND funds and several other things, while other municipalities are struggling heavily in counter-basin without having any of these generous benefits? I would therefore like to ask whether the Centre Party understands that several of the citizens of just growth municipalities, which are medium-sized municipalities, feel that they are losing in today's income system. The representative indicated in his statement that something has been done in this area, but does the Central Party believe that the current income system well respects the growth municipalities and medium-sized municipalities? And early on it's out: Debt recovery. I'd like to hear some words about it too, if time permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e795	I am surprised that the representative Torbjørn Andersen, and perhaps the others in the Progress Party, did not get along with it this winter that is now behind us, has resulted in extra costs for municipalities located in North Norway. There are, of course, other elements in addition that form the basis for the North Norway initiative. I would urge Torbjørn Andersen to take a little trip, either with a quick route or otherwise, and he will understand it for himself. Otherwise, the Central Party's main point is that there's a level for the municipal sector that's too low. We are deeply disunity in what is now happening from both the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Progress Party, namely that municipalities of different types are being set up against each other. Everyone has their own challenges. The cities have their own challenges, the municipalities have their own challenges, and the small municipalities have their own challenges. That's why it's an important point to support enhanced frames, so that everyone can get their share of it. And it's important to realize that some of the debts that have actually been created because big business and government have imposed new reforms on the municipalities, so that municipalities have greater freedom of action. Then we propose an important change in the income system, which I would recommend to the Progress Party. It's to let the community bill apply from 1 October of the year before, instead of from 1 January. We know that it has a direct impact on the municipalities of growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e806	In this reply, let's try to reveal the real will of the Central Party for voluntary community mergers. The centre party notes that municipalities will not be allowed to lose weight on this, and refers to the criterion of division. But one refrains from participating in the regional grant in the same process of thinking. In a previous line change, the representative of the Central Party spoke about overcompensation, and in their proposal they also have a five-year duration for this possible transitional arrangement. How are we really going to interpret this – knowing that a former central government council, Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad, in a reply to Sunnfjord, said that in that attempt the gain would fall to the state? This also stopped the process. Then there was no response to the party's call for debt restructuring. That's understandable, because you can't answer everything. But I would like to repeat the same problem: what are the justice criteria for the Central Party? What are the long-term effects? And what objectivity are you going to have here, now that you're referring to a minority proposal that obviously doesn't have any follow-up? If we could get a little bit of a look at this, we'll get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e817	I take for information that it is actually Sverre Hoddevik, who knows District Norway itself, who addresses the issue of municipal convergence. I thought it was interesting, not least because geography in this country implies that some, especially smaller municipalities, have found their natural form because of it. It's very little to think about, either it's for geography or it's for another way. The real will of the centre party is set in the setting. We don't want the overcompensation in the government's arrangement, but we're some of the people who want to keep a base bill. We suggest that a divisional set be given for five years, not ten years, as the majority will. When it comes to the proposal on indebtedness, I like to talk about it both loudly and extensively. I had a review in my post. Let me repeat that we are asking the Government to come back with an assessment of a debt cancellation, because we see that there is one way to get more funds to the municipalities without that leading to pressure in the Norwegian economy. Perhaps they can start with the old age plan, with the basic school reforms, looking at the different characteristics that local authorities might have to spend there. Maybe the criterion in the income system is the fairest. We need a bigger device to figure that out, but that's a good idea, we're not in doubt. We thought it was great that it created commitment and interest also in several parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e827	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e830	SV wants a much stronger commitment to the community sector and to school and health. We would point out that the situation in the Norwegian economy is so good that it cannot at all justify the lack of investment we have now. But there is an imbalance between private and public consumption. There is a large standard point between the private sector and the public sector. The necessary strengthening of school, health and care is fully possible without adverse effects on the Norwegian economy. This can be done by redeployment from other sectors, by introducing green taxes on polluting and environmentally harmful consumption and by increasing the tax on large capital income. The aim of the policy can be not only that it should be tight, but that it should also be right. There is SV busy. If you want to increase or cut, it can also be done in both the private and public sectors. It is not always necessary to get involved in the most important things when you have to spend less money. It is unacceptable that a rich country such as Norway does not address precarious needs in the school and health sectors when there is obviously money for it if one is willing to redistribute. The most important thing must come first. The common good must be strengthened, said Stoltenberg yesterday. We need more public employees to do the important jobs. A good public sector is a competitive advantage and SV agrees. If we're going to get this done, we're going to have to cooperate with the center and SV,' said Odd Eriksen today. It is important for us, who believe that the public sector should be strong, to stand together, he said. And then the first thing you do after you say it, is go right to make sure that school, health and the necessary tasks don't get enough money. They could get a lot more money in collaboration with the SV and the center. So in the richest country in the world, you have to reach task number. 1 for local politicians is to find a school they can drop out of, or a nursing home that is to be offered worse. It seems quite pointless. And then yesterday the Council of State blamed that they had to do this to get a majority for a change in the income system. That's not true. On page 51 of the configuration it is stated that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV «support in principle a conversion», whereas the Right has «a number of divergent views». For example, they will. the return of corporation tax to the municipalities and its distribution is different from any other source of income. How it can contribute to a more equitable distribution is absolutely incomprehensible. And they don't want property taxes. SV says yes to a change in the income system. But we want some parts of it to be further investigated, and then we'll take a position on that. I have come to realize that in fact everyone says – it also says right. One of the main reasons why we see that we have to make a conversion now is that there are a lot of people living in many central municipalities, immigration municipalities. There is also an increasing private prosperity in these municipalities, and it is a falling standard of public provision. What happens then? Then there is a risk that private offers arise because people are not satisfied and do not find themselves in too poor a standard, for example. at school. If we don't realize that the school has to be good, every mother and father understands it, and then they'll make sure they get a private school offer — or a health offer, if they don't get help when they need it. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary for those who want to ring the ring of public welfare goods to be opposed to privatisation and to participate in a certain transformation of the income system now, and that is SV. But we also believe that the local government sector needs to be strengthened by at least NOK 4 billion in free income in addition to the government's arrangements. It is necessary to be able to cover prostheses in the various areas and to have sufficient space both to cope with the conversion and to do the important tasks of quality. So I'll say a little bit about the particularly resource-intensive users. There is nothing in the world that is suitable for discretion as financing services to particularly resource-intensive users. To our surprise, we see that the Council of State withdraws our proposal for top funding, because it is too bureaucratic for the statesmen, while the state's own proposal has four cracks, against our one – against our one. In any case, the constitution of state councils will require many computational exercises, both in municipalities and in county councillors. Our arrangement is a simple arrangement, which ensures that the worst people get a safe offer from year to year. So SV also wants to be involved in reducing the use of the earmarked funds, and we want to decentralize power and tasks. It's also very central to those who want to increase local maritime governance. It must be an important part of the package to enable the municipal sector to have a living environment. I would like to highlight the suggestions from the SV that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e851	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e856	In fact, I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that we must try to work together with the Centre and SV on the issue of the local economy in Norway. But at the same time, unfortunately, it is necessary to have a majority. SV will never be a member of a majority, because they don't get through what they want. And then we're equidistant. Karin Andersen says she wants to increase the free income by NOK 4 billion, and she's alone about it. We all agree that we should perhaps have a little higher free income, but somewhere a roof has to be set, and then SV is never included, and therefore there will be no cooperation with SV. It's not that we don't want to, but cooperation is giving and taking. The same applies to resource-intensive users. In fact, it was at the initiative of the Workers' Party in the past that discretionary resources in relation to particularly resource-intensive users in the municipalities came into the context of the municipal economy, which has actually been extended to larger municipalities this year. Then comes the SV with the genius scheme: that the municipalities have to pay a dividend of 600,000 kroner, and besides that it has to be covered by 100 pst. – without asking questions about anything. That's the difference. What we're saying is we have to figure this out, so that it hits right. It is not the case that one should only be able to pay for expenditure in excess of NOK 600 000 for all heavy, resource-intensive users. There has to be a system that captures this in a proper way. What's the problem with SV is that they have all of the checked solutions, but they're never involved in finding containment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e867	Only in the course of today's debate have I been to the pulpit several times and shown how SV invads its proposals. Among other things, I had hoped that the representatives of the Workers' Party today would also have been clear that they could imagine increasing the tax on dividends, which is zero. There's billions of income that's untaxed. Why in the world should we not use them to pay services to e.g. particularly resource-intensive users? It's completely impossible for me to see why we shouldn't. So the representative says Lund has $4 billion in increase. And they could think of it as a little higher. Yeah, OK -- why haven't you tried to talk to SV and the center about it, so maybe we could agree? You've never tried. It is that there is consensus – there is deafening consensus – among all the local politicians of the Workers' Party that they should cooperate with SV, and that there is a need for more money for these important things. Yeah, well, far into the big group there was a riot to get a billion more out. I don't think they're particularly satisfied with the bed partners you've now chosen. So to the particularly resource-intensive users. It is the third year in row SV that promotes this proposal. Now the Progress Party is there. That's the third year in a row to be investigated more. So now the government is going into a very graduated arrangement. Plans must be made in each municipality to be investigated by the county councillors and approved. This is a terrible amount of bureaucracy, and I could like to repeat to the representative Lund: in relation to people who are heavily injured in traffic, who need to have help for everything 24 hours a day – what kind of waste is it to be done to such people? Is there going to be someone there when they need help? Is it that they will get help to wash and dress? Is it that they're going to have a real place to live? What in the world is the kind of waste that the municipalities think should be doing to those most intrusive in such a system? No, we need action here and no more investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e876	SV has the tradition of holding back the solutions of the old times, and it's probably part of us that remembers that the party once fought vigorously against extended opening hours in the shops. For SV, therefore, as far as I know, it is a main objective with a large public sector, which must be governed as much as possible by bureaucrats and politicians, and little should be left to the individual. At the same time, SV will increase taxes and taxes – they will introduce green taxes, it was said – the income and wealth of ordinary people will be taxed, SV will increase taxes on business, and they will, of course, coerce property taxes with the Workers' Party. They will also increase the level of wages and salaries in the public sector, but they say nothing about the likely next time they will tax the whole increase in wages and salaries. And, of course, they want to keep the county council – to mention something. That's why SV – and boasts of it – will grant DKK 4 billion more than everyone else to the local government sector. But SV never says, as far as I've heard, a single word about improving the efficiency of the public sector. They always just want to deposit more money and then treasure people. Does this mean that SV believes that the municipal sector is currently operating very efficiently? In the opinion of SV, is there nothing to extract from increased efficiency in the municipal sector? Does SV mean that the public sector is to some extent optimally efficient, as they never talk about efficiency improvement, but just talking about cash collection? I'd like to hear something about that. And would like to give some examples of how to streamline the municipal sector in order to save money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e883	It is tempting to be ugly and say that it had been fun to get lines from someone who had understood what we were doing, and had read the setting. The party of progress and SV are, for example, agree on new measures in the public sector in a whole column, including: on service declarations and consumer guarantees. It is SV who has written the comments, but the Progress Party fully agreed with us. So to the tax treatment. In the Swedish tax system, which I have here for 2000, it is that all revenues below NOK 300000 receive some large tax credits, and above that you get tax increases. SV has signaled that we want to tax those who now have zero taxes on million revenues. You can even have billions of income tax free without working, if you just make your money to speculate on shares. We think that's unreasonable. We think it's unfair. We actually think it's more important that we have a good school and a good care for the elderly than that. And it's not because we think it's awfully funny to spend this money, but on the contrary because people ask us to, and say, "We want a good school, we want care for our old people, and we want a hospital place when we need it." Yes, people will even – and perhaps the Progress Party has discovered – have roads in the whole country, and if we're going to get it done, someone actually has to pay it. But we have also written in this setting – which I might have hoped Torbjørn Andersen from the Progress Party had read, since we are sitting in the same committee – that we think it is possible to streamline. But I don't think we're going to have any oversized notions about it, and at least we don't think that a cold suffocation of the public sector, as the Progress Party stands for, is in the vicinity of giving people the services they want. For people don't want fewer and worse services, people want better school and better health care. That's what they're asking for. And SV is quite honest when they say where to take the money from. It's not the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e892	The SV and the Central Party are often united on issues related to both distribution, the environment and national and international solidarity. On the part of the Center Party, I want to thank Karin Andersen for his ability to produce the everyday life of many of those who have a hard time in this country. And it's right as she puts it, it's in the municipalities they live. She has made a proposal on behalf of SV, as she also mentioned in her article, which applies to resource-requiring clients. I would say, on behalf of both the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, that we have argued that the Government is continuing to work to find better arrangements than today. We have also asked for different top-level funding schemes to be evaluated. Then there are two themes in the setting that surprise me in relation to the SV's behaviors. The one debt is the liquidation of the loss compensation, a scheme that, if it is liquidated, opens up to dramatic changes for many of the smaller municipalities. I want to give Karin Andersen the opportunity to explain what makes her not at least there could be on the Centre's signal and give clearer notice to the Government. When it comes to the issue of debt cancellation, I see that she is involved in it in relation to the county councils. Why not follow the Central Party's proposal for a settlement and thus be able to obtain a little more funds for the local government sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e903	SV and the Zenterpartie agree very much, including on the direction of Norwegian policy. In terms of discretion and the particularly resource-intensive users, I see that there are several people who want change, but in the SV's view, this is too slow. Those who need it do not get their services, and the finances of municipalities are broken. That is why we think it has to be done now. Going down on funding, as someone has tried, we don't think there's any good solution. That's the resolution of the loss compensation. In principle, SV has agreed to it. I explained that in my post. One of the things we fear the most is increasing privatisation. Part of the municipalities that are now losing are the municipalities of relocation. There's a lot of people living there. Many people live with good income, and these municipalities now have small incomes and difficulties in following up on good public offers. That would be where the privatisation rate comes first. When those who live in these municipalities have to pay for their services, their whole solidarity falls apart. Why would they be willing to be willing to pay for services to others when they have to pay their fare? We see that we have to rotate the income there. But at the same time, I would like to ask the Central Party to look at our proposal, where we want to use the regional grant much more actively afterwards to see if there are any effects over time that we want to capture. We have a proposal to both increase the scope – now the same area as for rural policy instruments – and its scope. We've asked you to do that at the same time, so you can see if there's anything you can catch up there. We have received signals from municipalities saying they want this. In terms of debt cancellation, I think the Central Party's proposal is too general. Our proposal is especially about investment in hospitals, and what we think is a limited task, which we believe is easier both to implement and to get a wider majority for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e912	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e915	For one who has a daily policy at municipal and county level, it is with joy, but also with some wonder I am listening to this debate. It's a pleasure because there are many beautiful words about the municipalities' place in the welfare community, and it's a touching deal to give the municipalities more autonomy and freedom. Most of the things that have been said about this today, I can join. In particular, I think it is gratifying that the new government has followed up the Bondevik government's work for less ear-marking of government contributions to the municipalities and has made suggestions at the same time as the centre party announced that this would be submitted. But nevertheless, wonder is perhaps stronger than joy. There is a frightening gap between the remoteness that the plurality of the hall is behind the activity around the municipalities, and the remoteness I experience on the body as a local politician. It is not possible to get away from the fact that most of the local politicians in the country are the ones who, at the end of the day, have to make sure that the reforms adopted by the representatives in this Chamber are put to work. It is also the local populace that every day is put to work to ensure that the expectations of the public's tasks are resolved, grown and grown without any financial framework to meet expectations, and in most cases even the ability to influence our own incomes. There may be good reason to discuss how realistic all expectations created by government and growth are, but the results at local level are at least growing frustration, less involvement with the government and a forced prioritisation of the tasks that are subject to the strongest state ear marking. The situation in many places in the country is the fact that the major and important health reforms in the last few years have had other sectors suffer painfully. In particular, it applies to school and culture. If e.g. I am afraid that several county councils had already been placed under state administration. On that background, it becomes almost a parody when the government manufactures it as if it is an increase in municipal freedom of action to liquidate ear-marked appeals, for example. in the field of culture, e.g. the busses. Although the social economy seems to be the new social-democratic state religion, it needs more than one social-economic bookbox to convince me that less money gives more freedom of action to the municipalities. Prime Minister Stoltenberg recently talked about taking a cultural lift for the whole country and giving our children a cultural school bag. I want to greet the Prime Minister after. In More and Romesdal, in recent years we have developed a system of cultural rites for all the elementary school students, where the menu consists of taste buds from different cultural areas. The scheme has become very popular. Unfortunately, it seems that coming school years will be the first and last time we can present this cultural host in all the municipalities. The foundation is the Stoltenberg government's economic policy. Not only are the overall frameworks of the local government sector in stark contrast to the Workers' Party's promises while they were in opposition. In addition, economically small, but for us, important cultural measures such as the bookbuses and the culture boat "Innvik" are being wiped out. In the revised national budget, the Labour Party will also cut off the boundaries of local and regional cultural houses and have got Right on it. The government and the Labour Party must understand that a good school and a thriving cultural life today are created with hard work locally and not by high-driving phrases from government politicians who do not want to open the wallet. The left hand side is determined by the need for a strengthened economy to perform the services they are charged. Therefore, the Left and the other central parts of the submitted a real growth in the municipal sector of DKK 5 billion. At the same time, it is important to stress that local democracy is more than pure service production. There is at least the same amount of community expression and cooperation between citizens to solve tasks and develop the community. For us who think that individual human beings should have the greatest possible influence on political decisions, it is obvious that these decisions will be taken as close to the individual as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e935	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e938	First, just a clarification in relation to book buses. We're not going to liquidate the earmarked grant, we're going to include it in the framework. This is a typical debate compared to the fact that when we want to include ear-marked grants, it never suits anyone. But once we have to start. Now it is a challenge for local politicians to pass on the grants to the buses, because now it is in the framework. But what I wanted to bring up with the representative Aud Folkestad from the Left is the president of the Left, Sponheims, newspaper article in the Official Journal of Bergen on 8 June and the follow-up in the Evening Post on 9 June on the closure of the county municipality. Now the representative said very well about local democracy and the state level. I would like to hear from the representative of Folkestad whether she shares the view expressed by the leader of Lars Sponheim in these newspapers, where he believes that the Labour Party's debate on the county council and the assessment of larger regions is reprehensible, and that we should perhaps lower that level and transfer these offers to the municipal level. I just want to hear how the left thinks about the operation of hospitals at a municipal level. In this case, there must be huge municipalities in order to be able to afford, for example: running the University Clinic in Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø. I'd like to hear how the representative sees Kommune-Norge if we're going to follow the ideas of Left's leader Sponheim. I also see that his idea is not in line with Left's program, but I just want to hear it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e945	There is a problem when removing ear markings in some areas which are weak, while continuing to have strong ear markings in some other areas. I have a painful experience that when it comes to culture, it makes itself especially active in municipalities. Taking this into a frame can be a big problem. We're looking at all the ambulatory library services. For example: my own country is unable to proceed with the instigation of the bookboat Epos, for which all parties claim very little. All of these things gather to give one a very poor supply in the field of culture when one at the same time holds on to a strong eardrum, for example. in the health and social field as a whole. Then to the county. I want to make it clear that Sponheim has made a contribution to the debate on Left's software work. That being said, I'm dividing Sponheim's great scepticism into these superregions that the Labour Party adds. I have a very strong suspicion that this is actually a direct form of centralisation that I absolutely do not want. What's in Sponheim's play when it comes to the county council is first and foremost a thought of strengthening local democracy and just stressing several of the thoughts that I was in my post, that one moves the decisions as close as possible to the individual person down at the local level, and sympathizes that the person with the shoe can be allowed to tell about where it prints. That's why I share many of Sponheim's views. But I would like to make it clear that this is a debate going on in the Left, and that we are currently creating a new big-scale selection program. That debate will continue until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e952	I want to intervene in this county municipal debate. Sometimes I want to trust the Prime Minister. When it comes to public expenditure, I have never believed that the Prime Minister is exaggerating. He probably wants to get to the lowest possible level, because the Labour Party wants a strong public state. However, the Prime Minister says that it costs NOK 3 billion each year to administer the county council – excluding the administration of hospitals, excluding the administration of the secondary schools. We also know that 80 pst. of the county budget goes to continuing schools and hospitals, including psychiatry. Then I thought it was exciting that the Left, and especially the President, the leader, had the impression that now he would go in to put down the county council as a political and administrative unit. It might have been interesting to get the right vice-leader in the Left's view in this way, from the perspective that she stood on the speaker's chair here and said that she was the state politician and municipal politician in More and Rome's valley who had to in a way accept the bad. There is an easy way to save $3 billion, which can be returned to the municipal sector within the primary municipality. I'd be surprised if the next leader wasn't with the leader, but maybe we could get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e957	When the Left has been a warm champion of both the regional governance system of the county and of the primary municipalities and local democracy there, it is precisely from the point of view that we want the government to have a real weight in the daily life of all people, that we should have a real impact on creating the good life for each and every one. I believe that most people have recorded that the county council is struggling, and that it does not achieve the efficiency needed in the relationship between the county council and the county council, for example, and we see that the new grip is needed here. And there we are actually some with the Progress Party. What we're not some people with the Progress Party in is that one should move power up to the state level. We want to shift power downwards, down to people most and to local democracy out in the municipalities. It is clear that some means must be used to ensure that we all have an impact on our everyday everyday everyday life. We think that's important, that's what's the popular rule principle for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e964	Since the Left is not a member of the Committee, challenging the party on a principle basis, and the challenges facing the county councils are, of course, abundant. But let me start with local democracy and the earmarked grants. Does the representative not see the possibility for local democracy to incorporate earmarked grants into the county council framework? And isn't it basically a kind of mistrust to the county council that you're worried when someone advocates such processes? So I could imagine challenging the center also on a theme that Østberg had up in an article earlier today. This is more in principle in relation to the North Norway grant, where I heard that the North Norway grant could be argued for as a resource injection to the nearest named export-oriented fishing farm in North Norway. Now it would be wrong to say that this sounds strange to me like shooting sparrows with cannons, but the impact on it seems strange to me. So if the representative of the Left could also comment on this analysis and use of the North Norway grant, it might be useful to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e971	When it comes to ear-marked additions, I said in my post that ear-marked additions would like a smaller one, and a greater freedom for both the municipality and the county community to solve their tasks. What is happening in practice today is removing earmarks in some areas, while continuing with strong earmarks in some large and important areas. In my own county municipality, one now sees in the budgetary process how this leads to individual areas becoming very badly damaged because, for example, the health and social sector is growing and is taking a greater part of the municipal cake. It's a big problem. In weak areas, we therefore still see the need to have a certain earmark, as long as one does not take a pointer with the whole system and thus ensure that the local and regional impact of how the funds are actually used is real. I experience this daily as a big problem. It's almost like one has to ask if it would be better to introduce more ear marks than to remove a few, because here, as I said in my post, school and culture will suffer a lot. That's why I see that including this in the frames may be a problem, and so the center has also gone in to hold some of these ear tags. When it comes to the centre's attitude to district councils in general and the North Norway grant, we have been a few in those matters, and we want to continue with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e980	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e983	We believe that good and accessible services are our main basis for ensuring common well-being and security. If we are to be able to improve the availability and quality of public services, municipalities and counties must have the necessary room for action. Should the offers also be equally distributed, we need to have a distribution system between municipalities that are perceived as fair. The balancing of income is therefore a central instrument for achieving the objective of equivalent services for all residents, irrespective of the municipality of residence. The principle that those with the most must give to those with the least must be strengthened. The main device is that the rich but tax-weak municipalities get better at the expense of municipalities that have more. The Workers' Party has promised more money to the municipalities. We'll keep it. Next year, the local economy will grow by nearly 4 billion, and 2 billion will be given in free income. That's four times as much as the central party councils suggested just eight months ago. Nevertheless, there is reason to take it seriously that for several of the municipalities the situation is worrying. Conversion and renewal are necessary, and in my view, the results are achieved by giving municipalities greater financial autonomy and incentives to achieve these objectives. Or to put it another way – like my daughter, who is working on economics in a municipality, said: It's in the long run depressing to just do shifts in the form of cuts. I wish there was room for more development work so that we achieve state objectives of more and better service production. In addition, another wish: to bring down the detail management and reporting to all possible instances — it will release resources. It's a lot of sense to get out in the municipalities. Careful steps are being taken to remove the designation of a number of grants, and the intention is clear: municipalities should be given greater freedom of action and better opportunities to prioritize themselves and make independent choices. Adequate and good services for the elderly are the main challenge facing public service production. In 1997, the Stortinget adopted an older reform that would cost over four years to EUR 30 billion to solve this problem more quickly. Anyway, I think we have to remind each other that it's a normal municipal problem, among other things. building a nursing home. Now, when there's a gap between the goal number Stortinget has set, and the plans in the municipalities, it's going to cost 10-15 billion more to fulfill it. Currently, no batches have taken into account to grant NOK 10-15 billion more. What can be established — even though a majority have tried to create another impression — is that the ageing plan is as planned by the Stortinget. Any increase in the construction of hospital and nursing homes is first clarified until the autumn. There is a great deal to comment on the views of the various parties on the public sector. But I have to make a little visit to the Progress Party after the posts of the representative Lodve Solholm. The policy of the Progress Party, which includes significant tax relief, must necessarily go beyond something. But what? The public sector is a grateful victim to the Progress Party. If people with their policies get less tax and perhaps also through it a slightly better personal economy, then it has to be used again to buy the necessary care services. If public service production is reduced — or minimised, in that sense — it will be the private market that will meet the needs. There is nothing more suspicious of it than that there is here the great difference between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties and the Progress Party, namely in the attitude towards the public sector. But it is speaking out of both mouths when the members of the Progress Party Lodve Solholm believe that municipalities that do not raise their own income should be punished – I assume it is economic – especially when we also know that the Progress Party is in principle opposed to the use of property taxes. Overall, with the measures now being taken to improve the financial situation of municipalities, and with the changes in the income system, local authorities will increase their freedom of action, and hopefully we will get safer and more satisfied residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1006	Today, we are dealing with a matter of vital importance to the entire district of Norway, yes, it is of great importance to cities as well. The whole operation of the municipalities is a little remarkable. We here in the hall determine the framework conditions for the economy of the municipalities, how much money they're going to have to travel with. It's a result of the tax system. Some municipalities pay a lot of taxes and some pay little, and then it is to be distributed by Stortinget. It's another thing that's worth noting. The remuneration of the employees in the municipalities is negotiated by the state, but the payment of the salary is paid from the municipalities, it is done locally. Another thing that I would also like to say is that the state gives with one hand and takes with the other. The municipalities have high operating costs, with transport. We increase the fuel charges enormously, while cutting the transfers. How, then, can speakers stand here and say that municipalities are getting better finances? Here are some examples that give clear evidence of the contradiction in the presentation: the municipalities are required by law to provide a number of benefits. They receive a number of earmarked funds, and they receive increased expenditure, such as social expenditure, among other things. to immigrants who are seconded to the municipalities and who, when the country’s grants cease, often end up in the social sphere. We get more older, and we get more care needs that need to be cared for. The home help system works poorly because there is too little money. There is a need for more support contacts. And what about youth action? It's a special problem in cities. How is this ensured when the local economy is weakened? Then there is cultural provision, there is also a need in the districts. I just want to mention that the grant to the culture boat ‘Innvik’ has been removed – 2.5 million. kr. One should think it has a huge impact on the state budget! That grant has been removed. But here in Oslo, here we go. Here we have adopted a new opera. But not enough of that, yesterday we actually decided that the port fund could be used for anything. So now it's going to be new that we're going to have a cabin in the lake and a boat in the mountain, because the ports are now going to be used for housing and shopping centers – because that's what's in the plan. A new part of town needs to be built. The price tag, how many billions there will be, we have no idea. But I hope it stops at less than 100 billion kroner. No, there's not going to be any inflation of that kind. We impose laws, we impose rules in this house to a large extent. I want to use a slogan: without the built-up door the city. I got a letter on the table today from Sortland, it goes to nursing homes – I'm sure more people in the hall have got it. That's where the municipality spent 10 million. kr to plan, but when the plans are to be realised, it is not money. There is a stop in the treatment of nursing homes in the Husbank because of a letter sent by the department. We're going to spend $6.5 billion to reduce the debt to the Gardermoban. There will be no inflation, it will be excluded from the budget. But I wonder if there's going to be inflation by cleaning up our old ones that are made up in their beds? Can we not really afford to have people living in the districts to reap from the natural resources that create wealth in this country, which is the basis for the well-being of cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1021	When the Workers' Party took over the government power, the party swirled up a wave of optimism and expectations in the Norwegian people, who immediately sent the party to the top of all polls. But it's not like that anymore. In record time, the Labour Party has been able to put its new-found optimism and self-employment completely flat. One of the most ambitious messages from the Labour Party Government was the modernisation and renewal of the public sector, a public sector in which municipalities are struggling with record deficits, inefficiency, regulation, bureaucracy, strong trade unions and also local government. There is now an urgent good reason to ask what kind of innovation and modernisation it really is we can expect from this labor party government. Let me mention one thing: recently Prime Minister Stoltenberg gave a speech in Bergen, which was honoured by the Head of the Association of Local Authorities, Jan Davidsen, who said that this speech to the Prime Minister could, in general, be given himself. Think about it! Then I'm actually starting to fool, because the Norwegian Municipal Council seems to be mainly concerned with combating changes and news for the Municipality of Norway. Renewal and modernisation, and not least an improvement in the efficiency of the municipal sector, clearly require an organiser of competition between public and private activities to provide citizens with the best public-funded welfare services. But such a policy now seems to be miles away from the government's view, a government that thus gives the impression that it has put itself at the forefront of the demands and views of the local authorities on how to operate the local government sector, rather than giving priority to the needs of its citizens. And the impression that this is actually the case was further reinforced during the committee's consideration of the municipal economic proposition for 2000, when the members of the Labour Party in the municipal committee made it clear that it was not enough that our welfare services were financed by the public – no, the public welfare services were also required to be so good exclusively by public employees. There is very little innovation and modernisation in a sweet – at least from my point of view – very old-fashioned monopoly thinking. Because creating greater efficiency in the municipal sector is a very central challenge, and it is quite wrong to protect the monopoly and exclusive right to provide care, health, schools or anything else – at least in reality. On the other hand, we must have a political will to actively facilitate efficiency-enhancing competition between public and private actors to provide typical public welfare services, for the benefit of both users and taxpayers. But the government does not seem to want to hear about modernisation in the municipal sector by means of the competitive element. This is a fatal error. Instead, the Government believes that the municipal sector should continue its protected monopoly activities, continue to live in the sailing season and continue to face major cost problems. It will also mean that one will continue to struggle with the lack of services, a few health cows and Corridor Asians. All this thanks to the fact that the Workers' Party will continue to maintain an almost total absence of efficiency-enhancing and quality-enhancing competition in the municipal sector. In my opinion, therefore, the power of government to act on the renewal and modernisation of the public sector is as far as possible. But we always have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1031	I am pleased that there is a majority to say all that the Government has proposed, and that we are now giving a clear signal that the real growth in the total income of the local government sector is SEK 3.5 to 4 billion in 2001. It is well above the growth forecast in the Community economicproposition for both 1999 and 2000. The growth of income must be seen in the context of the imbalances in the economy of the local government in recent years. Losses before loan transactions have grown and operating profit has been reduced. This situation we can't fix overnight, we have to correct it over several years. The government's proposal for increased revenue for next year is a contribution to this, but the local government sector must also contribute itself. Through consultations with the local government sector, the Government will discuss prior to the presentation of the State budget priorities for the tasks of the local government sector within the proposed income framework, but also simplifications, renewals and efficiency options will have to be the subject of these consultations. An important signal in the Community economicproposition, for which there is support, is the conversion of the principles of state governance of the local government sector – from detail management through earmarked grants and legislation to new governance based on target management, guidance and dialogue between the state and the local government sector. The aim is clearly to increase municipal freedom of action, and there are several proposals to facilitate this. Firstly, there is an increase in the free income from NOK 1.5 billion to NOK 2 billion. There is a clear change in relation to what has been the trend in recent years, as growth has come almost entirely as earmarked grants. As growth becomes more of a free income, it gives the local government sector greater scope for action to adapt the activity to incomes and for seagoing purposes to determine what is most important in its municipality. Inclusion of earmarked grants is the second important step that contributes to increased municipal freedom of action. I'm glad there's so much excitement about cleaning up the earmarked grants. I think it's now a common recognition both in Stortinget and in the Government that we have to be better at thinking completely in relation to our municipalities. There can, of course, be good reasons for keeping individual grants. The problem is that we now have a number and an amount of earmarked grants that over-binding administrative resources at state and municipal level and that prevent municipalities from doing good local priorities. Moreover, it is a very inefficient way of managing municipalities. We have a great need to free resources, both human and economic, for direct services to people. When the Committee has made a few adjustments to the proposal on the inclusion and winding-up of earmarked grants in 2001, I have no problem with that, all the time there is a broad consensus on the direction we are going in. A third important step is an increase in the tax rate. The share of taxes in total income is currently 44 pst. The government has proposed a gradual escalation to 50 pst. I've noticed that the majority of the committee will go a little faster, and of course I have no problem with that. The government has proposed significant changes to the income system in the Community economic proposal in order to achieve a fairer distribution. I am pleased that we are supported in implementing these changes, because they are important in order to offer our citizens the most equivalent service, regardless of which municipality they live in. We know that the main reason for the differences in service provision is the difference in income level. There is a clear tendency for the quality of municipal services to increase with the income of municipalities. Now that we have a change in the income system, it will result in a more balanced and fair distribution of income between municipalities and county municipalities. It is the weakest and most populous municipalities that make the most of it. I would also like to stress that we have given clear notice that municipalities with tax income below 110 pst. They'll basically make up for what they're losing. Therefore, it is not held in the argument that, among other things. The center party has, when they say it will be dramatic for most small municipalities. That's not right. I would like to say in summary: next year will bring about a clear improvement in the finances of municipalities. It will increase local freedom of action. We'll eventually get a fairer income system, and that again will lead to a more equivalent service offer. I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1064	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1067	With experience from one of the debates yesterday, where it was terribly difficult to get the Councils to answer questions: Since we also have two Councils of State in this debate, the same question may go to both. On 19 May 2000, the Minister of Social Affairs sent out a letter asking for quota or allocation — one may call it what it wants. In any case, there was clearly a reversal of the elderly care package. Following a request from the same government council representative Harald Nesvik to withdraw this letter, the Council of State replied to this in a letter dated 7 June 2000 – in the middle of the final phase of managing the municipal economic proposition. Here the government should know that there were multiples for a proposal that could not be interpreted in a different way than that one asked the government to revoke the letter. But we don't implicitly write that, that's right. – I have been made aware that I might have made a little mistake, when I quoted, and I am sorry for that. But when I quoted, I wasn't aware of what was going on. I am surprised that there is so little communication between the Minister of State and the Minister of Social Affairs — as far as possible between the departments. One could at any rate say in the reply letter to Nesvik that an awaited committee's handling. But the Council of State said no. Does this mean that the Government does not take account of the bulk of the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1078	Let me first say that I tried to answer questions in yesterday's debate as well, and one of the questions I answered was exactly what the representative Lodve Solholm is now addressing. Let me just underline: the government takes, of course, into account what the majority in the Grand Duchy thinks. This also applies in relation to this case. In the case of the local economy, it is, as some have emphasised, that the scheme provided by the Government for the elderly is currently supported. Of course, we have noticed that a majority say that one will take a final position on this during the treatment of the seniority plan for the autumn. – The Social Committee has decided that it should be dealt with at that time. That's the government's relation. This is why, of course, there will also be signs that we are waiting for further treatment of the elderly, for those who need those signals. I expect the Minister of Social Affairs to be able to elaborate on it a little bit later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1085	In the municipal economic proposition, the Government states: «The government reserves the right to make the financial arrangements for the municipal sector more stringent if the economic situation so warrants when the draft government budget is submitted to the harvest.» So the same thing is on page 6 and page 13, which is twice. What is the government's perception, since it's necessary to warn this? Is this an oil price drop for the $10 barrel? Is that stockpile? Or is there a notice that here you don't intend to follow up the big group that the Workers' Party got to, that is, increase by a billion? The Council of State stated that there is good growth in the economy, and we have heard sometimes that last year the Workers' Party – and it happens in dialogue when you give and take – has added a billion. We wanted it this year, because the situation for the municipalities is different, but the Labour Party didn't have this to give. Is this a warning of tighter policies towards the local government sector? The working party will also remove some small earmarked grants, and in budget revenue. S. No 2 asks the Administrative, Family and Cultural Committee of the Government to inform the Storting appropriately of the experience gained with the new management model before any changes to the grant system are made. Does the Council of State think that this way of informing about the earmarked grant to the Family Protection Office is satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1101	I must say that I see the question from the representative of Østberg about this government wanting a tighter policy towards the local government, is somewhat strange, especially in view of the fact that in the arrangement this government presents for the next year, and to which it is in agreement from the majority of the Grand Duchy, there are almost four times as much money as in the arrangement of the central government originally presented for the current year. Then there was some more money after negotiations between the Workers' Party and the Centre, which I am pleased about, but it is a little strange that it is then presented as if this is a very tight arrangement for next year. It's not. When it says in the community economic proposition that one has to make a reservation about what is happening around the world also in terms of the economy, it is not entirely unusual to do. It is not such that the economy of the local government sector can be seen separately from that of the other Norwegian economies. Yesterday we all registered a notice of interest rate increase. It shows that it is not right and it is not good when some parties signal that a nearest person can promise anything into the Norwegian economy without causing pressure in the economy. Of course, we also need to deal with what we treat in the municipal sector, what is happening in the world around us. But the next year, when we get a £3.5 to $4 billion bill, it's of course something that the government wants to propose, but it's not unusual that you have to look at the situation in the future in the Norwegian economy too, but there's no indication here that we're going to run a tighter schedule. I think this is a good contribution to getting on and trying to get closer to a match between the local authorities' tasks and the money they have at their disposal, but I don't think any government had been able to fix it overnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1110	A critical review of the income system has been announced in previous documents, and we rejoiced, of course, when we saw the phase-out plan for the loss compensation. Then we were not so disappointed when we saw that the three northernmost states and Oslo would without further consideration retain the crown for what we had previously had. In practice, this means that Sogn and Fjordane and Nord-Trøndelag, and perhaps partly Uppland, are the ones who are left with uncertainty in relation to the government's preliminary thoughts. Does the Council of State see this, and does she have a comment on it? And further, does the Council of State see the importance of the proposal for VI, where a reflection is requested of these well-known grants that do not have particular objectivity associated with them? So to this thing with earmarked grants, where the county has been in focus. Is it interesting for the Council of State to consider focusing on the primary municipality in the next round, with inclusion and free means, since the bias is evident at this point? Finally, if there are not too many questions, it could have been useful to clarify the use of the concept of ‘large and strong’ in relation to the public sector. We know that parents in the last generation would like to tell their children that they had to eat their food, so they grew up strong. It's not certain that these are synonymous terms, and someone actually became strong without getting big. Maybe it has to do with dieting – I don't know. But in any case, does the Council of State have a comment that the public sector can ‘easiness’ its activities in order to reach longer and not be omnipresent?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1121	I am pleased that it was possible to gather a majority for, among others. with the support of the Right, a gradual reduction in loss compensation in order to achieve a fairer distribution of the income system between municipalities and thus to obtain a more equivalent service offer. When the government proposed to do this gradually over a five-year period, it's because if we had done it from one year to another, and especially if you hadn't compensated, would have had dramatic consequences for some smaller municipalities, and especially some smaller municipalities in the districts. It doesn't want the government. Therefore, we do it gradually by compensating a lot, especially for municipalities with tax income below 110 pst. of the national average, through – as Mr Hoddevik correctly said – among others. North Norway grants and through the capital grant, which we do especially for Oslo, because we believe the city has very special tasks. We believe that it has been important to do what we do, including: in relation to North Norway. But, of course, we are also concerned – and will, of course, carry out the investigation requested, to review the different arrangements we have – what I feel many have a desire, namely to have an income system that has more objective criteria. So that investigation is going to come, of course. With regard to the issue of earmarked grants, all good proposals – many of them, including those located there – are received with thanks, targeting both counties and municipalities. To the extent that there's even more government can integrate/dissolve even faster, of course, we have nothing against being involved in a discussion about it, too, all the time we know that we're tying up an incredible amount of resources both human and economic when people are sitting and making plans, reports, applications, etc. It's a very inefficient way to control the municipalities. We have an urgent need for more personnel, including: in the health sector and care for the elderly, and if we meet that need, there will be a much more sensible use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1130	This spring we see extensive cooperation between the Labour Party and the Right in difficult, heavy political areas – oil policy, revised national budget, agricultural policy is just a few of several examples of it. And then it was also Right as the insertion of the labor party government. Last year, when the municipal economic proposition was dealt with, the impending representative Sylvia Brustad said: ‘... cooperation with the Right and Advance Party, a cooperation which will not mean a better situation for municipalities and which will in no way mean a better service provision, especially for children and young people.’ If the Workers' Party had entered into a partnership with the Centre, they had to cut their frames to increase, in line with what the Center Government had announced before they left. We had a bill of $5 billion, and we're standing by it. It was in the light of the common ground that the government and KS have shown that there is a need. They had to have seven to figure out the second criterion before taking away the loss compensation, something KS and others have also asked for. So we're serious about the fact that there's a lot of value creation going on in the districts, whether it's fish, oil, forest or other resources, and they still have a good service supply. In the light of this last year's quotation, the scheme must be understood as a signal that the Labour Party now has reduced ambitions for the local government sector. I repeat: it will ‘not mean a better situation for municipalities’, and ‘in no way means a better service provision, especially for children and young people’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1144	I think I have to say that if one sits in a glass house, one should be a little careful with throwing stones, especially when one knows what the central government, with the centre party in the municipal minister's chair, presented when it was about the municipal structure, among other things. for the year we are now in, which was almost four times less than what this government presents in a few months for next year. It is not right that the municipal structure for which there is now a majority for the next year means that we need to reduce the provision of services, that there are reduced ambitions in relation to the municipal sector, etc. So that's not right. It is also the case that when this government has been in favour of a very strong change in the income system, it is based on a fact that I believe is quite important, but which I understand the Centre Party is not concerned about, namely that we want to ensure an equivalent service offer in all parts of the country. And when the main explanation of the difference in service provision is inequalities in the income system, if one is engaged in equivalent service provision, there is only one answer to that, namely to do something about the income system. That is what the Government has proposed, and we are pleased that we are in agreement with that. I take note that the Center Party does not believe that this is so important. But I don't think people, among other things. in the part of the country we are now in, longer will be found in the maturity we are in, among other things. look at schools, or that they have to wait a long time to get the help they need in the health care system, etc. Here, too, there is a market for privatisation, where there are people with both the ability to pay and the desire to buy such services. This also does not want the Workers' Party based on our position on basic welfare offers. In view of that, it is very important to achieve a fairer conversion of the income system, which I also thought the Centre party was concerned about, than has been the case up until today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1156	I will try again to get an explanation of why the Workers' Party has chosen to cooperate with the Right this time, when they could knowingly get what they have said, namely more money for the municipal sector, together with the Centre Parties and SV, and when they could get to the same conversions in the income system together with the SV and the Christian People's Party. It would have been a broad majority for that. Yesterday the prime minister also said that the local government sector needed more money. Yes, how are you going to do that, how are you going to get more money in the public sector? SV has indicated how we want to do it. We want to tighten up in other areas, for example. taxing dividends on shares at the hands of the recipient – tax on dividends on shares is now zero for million and billion income. We want to redistribute from other sectors. Yesterday, the Stortinget agreed to a frigate contract of NOK 14.3 billion – a relatively uncertain project, to put it nicely. It went right through. SV chooses these things; we choose hospitals, schools and health before this. So if it's not that the Workers' Party will be with SV and tighten up in some areas, but on the other hand will have more money for the good things and in some way just spend more money, it's the Labour Party's policy that will provide for more interest rate growth, inflation and everything that you're so much afraid of. I do not understand how the Workers' Party will be able to secure what they say, namely more money for the public sector, when they do not want to participate in the SV's redistribution policy, nor will they be able to participate in and provide a majority with those who can actually ensure what the Workers' Party says they will. I miss a good explanation. The only explanation I can find is that the Labour Party does not really want to, and that they believe it is right that the municipal sector is kept at the level that is today. That's what the Council of State says. It's not a good enough offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1165	Several have said that we have reached an agreement here with the Right in terms of the municipal sector for next year. After listening to the debate today, I think several speakers have made it quite clear that the Workers' Party has received varying support for the various measures contained in the Community economic proposition – sometimes from the centre, sometimes from the Right. I am not ashamed to receive support from either party. The government is happy to have got through, so to speak, everything we have proposed. Of course, the Labour Party and the Government are extremely concerned about having a local government sector that can offer the services that people both demand and expect to get, and at the right quality. Of course, money is one answer, while public sector renewal is another. We believe that we have got a pretty big boost for next year when we say that the municipalities will get between 3.5 and 4 billion kroner. It's not right, as Andersen's representative says, that the Workers' Party is not committed to achieving a fairer distribution in our society. We dealt with yesterday's distempering message, where the Workers' Party was united with several parties, among others. the centre parties and the SV, on some proposals that are just about to get more justice. The Labour Party has clearly stated in its fiscal policy – and I think that one will also see the results of the future – that it is those who have the strongest back, who have to bear the heaviest burden. The Workers' Party has always meant that, and we still believe that. We will eventually come back with suggestions when the time comes. But it is also true that when SV suggests approx. 4 billion kroner more than the government has proposed, I wonder if SV will not agree with a remark that how much one puts into the local government sector is also related to the total pressure in the economy. So there's a danger of interest rate rise, increasing unemployment, etc. if you don't see this also in connection with other things. Therefore, it is not possible to do everything from one day to another.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1178	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1181	It was interesting to hear the municipal minister now. She said, "We'll get the support where it's to be found, a changing support." But when Sylvia Brustad was in opposition, the review melody from the Workers' Party was that now the central government must choose side of welfare policy and not operate and get support here and there and dangle from side to side. Now, the workers' party government is doing the exact same thing. The Minister of Local Affairs stands here on the contrary and boasts that they are picking up the support where it is to be obtained, ranging from side to side, and, interestingly, in such an important welfare policy task as the municipal economy, at the Right. It's okay, but then the Workers' Party is also going to admit that they've gone on a line break. There is a new course in relation to previous requirements that one must choose one side, and then one must stand consistently on that side. So the Labour Party doesn't do that at all in government. The municipal sector is responsible for most of the public services and is therefore so important for the development of the welfare society. The public sector is facing major challenges today. The age structure of the population will lead to increased demand for municipal services, we have a labour market with scarce labour supply, and the public's expectations of the scope and quality of services will increase. The Christian People's Party believes it is important both for the individual user and for the total use of resources to look at the possibilities for renewal and simplification of the public sector. This is why the central government launched the ‘Simplifying Norway’ programme, and therefore the new government continues with these and other measures for the modernisation of public administration, and that is good. In order to succeed in the renewal and simplification of the local government sector, it is among other things. the need to reduce the detail management of municipalities and counties. It is gratifying to note that the Government is following up both the process of liquidating earmarked grants and the project of reviewing State legislation addressed to the local government sector. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to provide the best possible economy for municipalities within a sound financial framework. We have therefore proposed to increase the real growth of municipal income in 2001 by DKK 5 billion compared to this year, as announced by the municipal minister of the central government, Odd Roger Enoksen, before the government change. So it's not something we've come up with. We find it disappointing that the Labour Party government has not been willing to participate in this growth in the local economy. A good economy is important for maintaining housing in the districts, but it is also important for the big cities. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that there is a need for its own big city grant to meet the special challenges of the big cities. For those municipalities experiencing strong growth, it is difficult to calculate the population grant on the basis of the population per capita. 1 January. Rather, we suggest 1 October to better capture recent growth in such municipalities. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the 14 municipalities that receive increased expenditure on employers' fees due to changes in the employer's zone will receive this reimbursement. These municipalities will thus have better time to convert to these additional costs. We are pleased that in 2001 the Government follows up the plans for the construction of dwellings in the Action Plan for Older People, namely 5,800. However, we are concerned that the department has sent out letters to the statesmen who will lead to the municipalities having to stop projects that are ready to build. The same letter shows that the municipalities have planned 38 500 places. The deadline for submitting applications for the municipalities has previously been set at 1 June 2001. This shows that there is still a great need for the development of care for the elderly in the municipalities. The Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party and the Advance Party, therefore proposes that the Government prepare a scheme to ensure the extension and extension of the older reform, so that all municipalities can implement their plans. It can't be that there's a first man to the mill that's going to expand. Unfortunately, this proposal does not appear to have a majority. However, we are pleased that the majority – all parties except the Workers' Party – are asking the Government to continue the elderly reform without any restrictions on the approval of new projects until after two years the Stortingen has dealt with the ageing notification of the Senior Care Action Plan. Based on the plans we know today, we are surprised that the government has found out that we only need 5,000 housing units in the period 2002-2007. For us, it is important that in the next few years we complete the power plant that is needed to provide good care for the elderly. We can't fail the elderly now. The power surge must be completed. It is important to plan early on how to meet the needs of municipalities in this important welfare policy area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1207	Today, the size ends with the proposals of the Labour Party Government to strengthen local government’s economy and reduce state detail management. The government's proposal to implement the retirement scheme as planned, with 5,800 new nursing homes and nursing homes next year, is also fully supported. The economic situation in many municipalities and counties is worrying. According to some estimates, the deficit in the sector totals approximately DKK 11 billion. However, we should be aware that this is not a purely operational deficit in the economic sense of the enterprise. These figures also include, as is well known, investment and borrowings related to the 6-year reform and to the ageing effort. But the deficit is high, even when we correct for such specific conditions as the state compensates for over several years. The scheme of the government will increase the income of municipalities by DKK 3.5 – 4 billion to next year. In comparison, the previous government, with Odd Roger Enoxen as Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, brought up a real growth in municipal income from 1999 to 2000 of DKK 1.1 billion. Our new government is thus close to a quadrupling of the Bondevik government's budgets. When the central parties now state that this is not enough, this clearly contradicts what they themselves prioritised in practical policies from the government position. I am also surprised to hear that former Prime Minister Bondevik is now sorry that the Workers' Party would not propose NOK 5 billion, but NOK 4, while his own government was able to settle for NOK 1 billion when the last budget was presented. The working party got an increase of NOK 1 billion to the municipalities in the current year's budget. So now we're adding 4 billion kroner to the municipal structure, and I think it's a good start in repatriating the municipalities' finances. In the years to come, the public sector will grow and have more resources. We will need more public servants to solve the challenges of education, health, care for the elderly and combating crime. In order to ensure a fairer distribution and cohesion of income between municipalities in the country, significant changes are now being adopted with a stronger redistribution from the richest to the poorest municipalities. The proportion of tax revenue to be retained by municipalities is increased. This means that municipalities get more for their work to facilitate good business development. At the same time, a stronger redistribution is being carried out from taxpayer to tax-deprived municipalities. These changes significantly strengthen local self-government. A greater part of the grants shall in future be provided as free resources, with less detailed management by the country. This is in line with what our party and also elected representatives in the municipalities have requested. In the opposition role on the Stortinget, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have proposed to increase municipal income next year by 5 billion kroner, in other words 1 billion more than the Workers' Party. And as I've already been about, it's by itself not spectacularly much more than what the Workers' Party is proposing, but it's really eye-catchingly much more than what the Centre parties found room to strengthen the municipalities when they sat in the government offices. The treatment of the revised national budget for the rest, which we will deal with tomorrow, shows in reality that there is very little difference between what the Labour Party and the Centre parties do in terms of prioritising the local government sector. If we put our positions next to each other, we see the following: for the municipal economy as a whole, the center goes in for 57.1 million. kr more than the Working Party – 57 mill. kr! That is why it is very difficult to understand the reason why the central parties were not even willing to enter into real negotiations with the Workers' Party on the revision of the budget provided by the Centre Government, and were agreed with the Workers' Party. This shows that the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties mainly agree on the priority of the municipalities' economy. So rather than focusing on a few small differences, we should, on the contrary, agree to bring the municipalities out of the difficult situation they are in. Today, the centre parties choose instead to stand outside. And to what has been raised several times in this debate, why the Workers' Party does not have an agreement with the Centre and, for example, with the Centre. SV in this case today: The explanation of this is very simple. The Centre would not negotiate with the Workers' Party, despite the small differences in reality that I have just pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1235	We have already gone a long way in the debate, and most of the issues are affected by many. The action plan for the elderly has gradually become a main theme in the setting, all the while the government's short-term grip has been perceived as relatively dramatic in Municipality-Norway. We are thinking here of outgoing correspondence through the county, where the municipalities are getting a stop order on the way, in an attempt to keep the volume within the previously stipulated framework. I am very pleased that the majority in the Committee have agreed on the Right formulation, where we propose that the older reform be continued without the restriction of approval of new projects until the Stortinge has dealt with St.meld. No 34 and making a decision on whether to extend the plan. However, it is important that the quality requirements for care in this process are met. It appears that the phase-in of major national policy reforms has resulted in major planning work as well as a wide-ranging debate on justice relating to the prior priorities of each municipality and the work carried out. We have to make sure that we do not get a similar painful process associated with the phasing out of this large earmarked project. Another important element of the setting is the long-term signal that facilitates structural changes in the management. The government proposes a inclusion criterion for the primary municipalities that results in a region not losing basic grants over a 10-year period of any voluntary community merger. I am particularly pleased that the majority of the Committee has agreed to the Right's proposal to include, in the same way, any regional grant in this criterion of division, so that it does not remain as an obstacle or as an economic motive to refrain from voluntary association. I would remind you here that when the Task Distribution Committee gives its opinion soon, regardless of what conclusions it may contain, the societal debate will start re-allocation of tasks, as well as the number of levels of administration. And should we be so lucky that it was possible to get a majority in order to complete the county council – to understand that we are left with two levels of government – it is also important that we have a process of creating competent beneficiaries at the primary municipality level that can take care of parts of the county council's current responsibilities. It is a fact that if one ignores SV, there is no particular difference between changing governments and opposition in terms of available crowns to the local government sector. Political bottle prices varied unduly more between government and opposition a few years ago, but now it seems that the answer to ebbs in municipal funds is as much more efficient and structural grip as the adjustment of the crown amount. Quite the opposite is the border problem that arises around enclosed cities. Many of these problems have had to be solved over the past few decades through processes that are not strikingly marked by volunteering from all. The current problem mentioned in the setting is linked to the North-Jear. Here the majority goes in to get a process encouraged by the state to get a solution to the Stavanger or Nord-Jären question. So finally, a few words about the liquidation of earmarked grants in a process of weighting free revenues more strongly compared to earmarked grants. It is not difficult to get a majority in favour of the principle that designation should be substantially reduced. It is more difficult when we come to the concrete proposals that have a special interest or a postal address attached to them. In this setting, the ‘Innvik’ cultural boat appears to be the political ‘sheet’ — in other words, the safest place to stay in the event of a regional political storm. It is assumed to be extra difficult for representatives from Sogn and Fjordane not to be on board this political ship per. date. For the Right, who has led this race with the inclusion of ear-marked grants, we basically say yes to the Government's list when they're once on the loose. We are pleased that it was possible to include the school leisure arrangements, which were at the top of the Right's supplementary list of more than half a billion dollars in total. Then it's going to be worth 2.5 million. kr that has previously moved to the culture boat «Innvik», must find consignors other than the designation lists in the State budget. This inclusion exercise aims at ensuring the growth of free revenues of at least a few billion kroner in the municipality of Norway, which may be contributing if the measure otherwise comes into competition with other cultural measures in the district of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1250	The government did this at the same time as St.prp. No 62 for 1999-2000 for St.meld. No 34 for 1999-2000, the action plan for the elderly after 2 years. The notification shall be dealt with by the Size of the Autumn but the content is partly mentioned in the Municipal Economic Proposition and is therefore also mentioned in the Innst of the Municipal Committee. S. No 252. I would like to start by giving tribute to the municipalities for the efforts they have made in the first two years of the action plan for the care of the elderly. The results so far are very satisfactory and show that municipalities have given priority to care for the elderly. Let me make it clear that the Government is taking care of the implementation of the action plan within the framework adopted by the Stortinget – among others. it has been decided to grant grants to 24400 nursing homes and nursing homes. The government is also following up the substantial increase in staffing in the care services — over 12,000 new annual works. The Municipal Committee has now been concerned with the link between the adopted investment framework of the Action Plan and the provisional plans of the municipalities. For the elderly and the mental health escalation plan, municipalities have overall reported a need for development of 38 500 units for the period up to 2003. So far, the actual application entry to the House Bank is good within the agreed framework. Before projects are approved at Husbanken, it must be demonstrated that the municipality can also operate the new units with sufficient services. So far, it has been shown that municipalities are planning more units than they are actually building up. Moreover, the plans of municipalities as they exist today do not indicate sufficient consistency between investments and operations. However, in view of the fact that the municipal plans are so far above the adopted investment framework, St.meld. No 34 and in the municipal economic proposition described a framework for municipal frameworks. The government has indicated in the Communication that after 2001 there may be a need for a further 5000 new nursing homes/housings. I would like to stress that there is uncertainty about the estimate. This, together with the framework of the elderly plan and the roadmap for mental health, will provide about 35,000 places during the planning period and the coming years. In the government's opinion, this is comprehensive in relation to the plans of the municipalities. The size has in the past been concerned with the importance of municipalities that need a little longer time to carry out their construction projects. Experience so far shows that the larger municipalities are lagging behind in the use of grant schemes in the Husbanken. This is often due to the fact that these municipalities need a little longer time to plan, find suitable land and carry out the necessary processes politically and administratively before the application is sent to the House Bank. The Elder Plan is a formidable lift, a lift that has all the way into the Storting. So far, 19 billion are allocated to investments and 10 billion are allocated to operations. The government is committed to maximising its resources, including: so that we can achieve a strengthening in those municipalities that have come to a minimum in terms of development. The government is concerned that there will be a good distribution of care for the elderly between municipalities, while at the same time an appropriate balance is important in the development of care homes versus health homes. This led to the Ministry of Social and Health in St.meld. No 34 initiated the allocation of remaining units to be built during the planning period — a total of 11000 units. That's how we would give the municipalities predictability in planning and avoid first to the mill principle. The Ministry takes note that the majority of the Storting does not want this distribution to take place now. Therefore, no municipal framework is established, and applications will normally be dealt with in the House Bank until St.meld. No 34 treated for the harvest. The government considers it essential to ensure the best possible distribution of new projects and sufficient capacity in relation to the needs of caregivers and caregivers. Therefore, at the latest in connection with the submission of the State budget to the autumn, one year earlier than in the notification, the Government will make concrete the contribution of the State to the financing of entities built beyond the 2002 action plan period. This will naturally also address personnel needs. A good match between investment and operation is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1278	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1281	Since the county councils are hospital owners, I find reason to ask the social minister some questions, as the health minister is not present. In the revised budget, which we will deal with and adopt tomorrow, the majority – consisting of the Workers' Party and the Centre's – will cut the purchase of hospital equipment by 760 million. kr. One of the arguments used is that the county councils can now not afford to follow up their efforts by adding their share of the purchase of equipment to the hospitals, and that therefore they can now cut the appropriations. It is now time that treatment through the use of more efficient equipment will lead to more patients being treated, reducing sick pay payments, and getting more people to work. In other words, there are only advantages to renewing the equipment at our hospitals. In addition, these appropriations are not inflationary – at this time, when we are debating pressures in the economy, tightness and balance. Why, then, can the Government not be willing to consider proposals such as: Are equipment being renewed, either by increasing direct transfers to county councils for this purpose, or by increasing the state share of investment expenditure, so that we actually get new equipment, which is so badly needed by saying all hospitals in this country? I have the preliminary benefit of understanding the logic of the Workers' Party in this area. But if the Social Minister could be so kind as to explain to me what is logical about it all, I would appreciate it, because so far it has not been possible to understand what factual reason to base that kind of indecent cut, in an area where we really need to bet on just increasing the treatment capacity of our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1292	Two days ago, the Minister of Health took up this question from this pulpit and explained it well, as far as I could understand. In fact, if you left that plan behind, the money would be unused.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1299	I agree with the Social Minister that the older reform is a good reform and that the municipalities have done a good job. Therefore, when the Government presents St.meld on the same day, it feels totally unreasonable. No 34, the action plan for the care of the elderly after two years, sends a letter to the county councils, not discussing the introduction of quotas, but establishing quotas or territorial frameworks. This was on a Friday, and the letter came the week after, on 23 May, to Troms. I reacted quite spontaneously, because what's happening in Troms County is that many of the plans are being stopped. Money has been used unnecessarily when you go forward like this. I'm glad the Council of State says that the Ministry takes note of what the majority is now going to adopt during the evening. It was supposed to be missing, too! But does the Council of State find such a procedure reasonable, that one sends such a letter on the same day as one presents a case to the Stortinget? Is there a real way to deal with the Stortinget, not to allow Stortinget to discuss these matters before the Department takes a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1307	The size has determined the framework for the development of care for the elderly. It is the duty of the Ministry to implement it. It is also our duty to ensure that there is a good and fair distribution between municipalities, between hospitals and nursing homes, and that there is sufficient care for each unit. This was what the ministry wanted to do — make a distribution so early that it got this justice, just to avoid the fact that the municipalities that first started were the ones that not only got built out what was sufficient, but perhaps also beyond the need. I would like to remind you that perhaps especially cities like Tromsø, which have come out late, will benefit greatly from the fact that a distribution is being made. But of course, the department and I will focus on what the Stortinget has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1314	I'm glad we have a government council that is complying with what Stortinget has said. But I also think we should have had a government council that was a politician, and not a bureaucrat that I think the answers the Council of State has given so far in this round indicate. It is true that if hospital equipment is to be used more widely, it is necessary to look at what is needed to ensure that it is possible to update it. We did. Therefore, in the revised national budget, we also strengthened the free income of county councils, both in order to cope with increased hospital activity and in relation to the purchase of hospital equipment. This means that if you have a wish, you have to change other framework conditions – not just find out that no one is going to apply for this money. I do not believe that no more of that money will be used. And not least, you should do that when you propose to postpone it by two years. That means it's going to be exposed to next year. There is actually a majority who want to give the county councils more free income that allows them to pay part of their share of their equity then. That's one piece. The second part: the same applies in and on the same way to the elderly care reform. I can see one reason why there should be quotas, but then they should have been introduced when the Stortinget dealt with the elderly care plan – the time it was proposed. But changing the rules now leads to a huge confusion for the municipalities and a very difficult situation. We have in a way added one set of framework conditions, the municipalities have adapted to it, and then many who have good plans and are told that they do not get it. The illogical thing to do in this way is actually that those who had actually completed projects, those who didn't need an earmarked grant to get more care for the elderly, have got the money. They had the plans – they just got extra funding from the state all of a sudden for plans they had already had. That is why I think we need to realise that we need to discuss which premises should be laid and how large the framework should be. I just think we have to realize that when we introduce ear-marked grants, it probably forces more coverage than the original need that had been set, because it's one of the fault problems associated with the efficiency problems of ear-marked drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1325	I noticed that Andersen wanted a politician and not a bureaucrat. It is possible that she also wanted a health minister and not a social minister to answer the question. With the economic situation of hospitals today, it is, in fact, absolutely necessary to do some work ahead of equipment purchases, and it has been explained repeatedly by the Minister of Health from this pulpit. So to the older reform: no municipalities have been denied. Municipalities have been asked to give priority to the different projects they have planned. It has never been suggested from any team – from either the Stortinget or the Ministry – that the framework was endless when it came to the reform of the elderly. But we see, as I said in my post, that there will be a need for something more than what you planned from the beginning. It was also up in the debate when this came up, and we actually had very poor grounds for finding the exact number, so it's no surprise that the hit security wasn't 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1334	The President assumes that the reply was addressed to the replicator Erna Solberg – Karin Andersen is coming now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1337	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1342	Yeah, I'm Andersen! In terms of hospital investment, there's only one way to do it if you want to invest more in hospital equipment, and I think you should agree on that. It is then necessary to ensure that the county councils can afford it, either by providing them with a free framework so that they can afford to redeem the funds or by increasing the country's share, or by reducing debt. So the only conclusion to this must be that the government thinks it's no longer important. That you should do it for a longer time, someone has suggested. In the setting of the municipal economic proposal, the working party and SV say to do so within the set time. This must mean that you will get a real investment tree at the end of the period, and that may have its effects. Then I also have a question that concerns the reform of the elderly. I agree that it is important to spend the money on those who need it the most, but it is also important to make sure that those who need a more adapted dwelling get it. Both nursing homes and nursing homes have been part of this plan. Some people can accept care in their own home, it can work just as well if the dwelling is arranged for it. SV has arranged for several years in a row to see if it would have been possible to spend some of this money better and get more out of them, for example. to make it lawful to use some of them to install the lift, fix the bathroom and such things. Especially in cities it would be important, because here there are not so many plots to take off to build old-age homes and nursing homes. We've wanted the department to look at this in such a way as to spend this money. Maybe we'd gotten more out of some of them -- several nursing homes out of the money -- by being able to do it this way, especially in cities where it's so expensive to build.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1356	To the representative, Andersen, I just want to say that I fully agree that you should be able to look at the possibility of using a little bit to make better standards on dwellings that already exist. That might make sense, and I'm taking that back.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1361	When the Central Party reacted to what happened on May 19th, it's because this is a combination of two steps from the Government's side. The only thing is that a big message is submitted that makes a clean deal for the status per. Today, but reporting a vague response to the situation after 2001. The second is that letters are sent out that give an emissary signal in relation to the situation after 2001, and start-up in 2002 is perceived in relation to it, first a letter to the statesmen with quotas, and then letters from some statesmen – not from all of them, they do not follow this up – are sent out to the municipalities, with very short notice. Municipalities who feel that they have come too far in their planning and approval are asked to reconsider the situation. It has never been unseemly on our part – nor in others as I see it – about what is going to happen in 2000 and 2001 when it comes to scale. There are questions about taking your local authorities' plans seriously in relation to the extension and extension. I now perceive the situation in Stortinget so that the proposal that is made from the centre and the Progress Party, and which I believe SV has been involved, will in practice be joined by everyone. Erna Solberg has said that this is what is in her note, and the Minister for Social Affairs has now said that she is going to introduce an extension and extension beyond 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1368	In the municipal economic proposition, we have informed Stortinget that we need to do something about the municipal distribution: «The Community has already received a deadline of 30.06.01 to apply for investment grants. The distribution of the framework is therefore already taking place, so that municipalities are given up to one year for further planning, and the Husbank can process applications on an ongoing basis. Municipalities which have planned to be awarded a framework must, on this basis, give priority to their projects before they are submitted to the Husbank for an application procedure.» In that way, I mean to have briefed the Storting about what we're going to do. At the same time, I would like to remind the representative, Kleppa, that the previous two years, while she was a social minister, it was informed to Stortinget every year that more plans had been made on the part of the municipalities than what could be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1380	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1384	Renewal and conversion are difficult, but at the same time exciting and challenging. This applies not only to Kommune-Norge, it also applies to, among others. business, agriculture and service activities. I am sure that with the help of the local staff, it is possible to see completely different solutions to public service production than what we are doing today. We need to simplify and build up the administrative apparatus and focus more on people's needs. We have to get better at telling them what they can get from the municipality, more concretely what the services are, and make sure that people get what they've been promised. I think some of the problem today is that there is uncertainty both between those who are going to provide services and those who are going to receive services, about what is going to be the size of municipalities and the level of service production. Municipalities have to set standards for services and make sure that people, as I said, get what they're promised. We therefore need to eliminate both duplication of work and unclear responsibilities between departments and between levels of government. In many cases, several stages have to be included in the picture for some users, and it has been read and decided that if the agencies cooperate, the results will be good. Nevertheless, it is today that there are several floors inside the picture, so much, much more complicated than if the responsibility was on a floor. Here, something new has to be thought about to get better results there, too. Users must be centred. Local authorities need to carry out user studies to a greater extent than at present to see if they are delivering the services that citizens expect and demand. Some municipalities have begun, and with good experience. Quality work should be carried out regardless of whether the services are performed publicly or privately. The trust of users in municipal services depends on the quality being perceived as satisfactory. More systematic complaint handling also needs to be done, so that people are better able to complain if they feel ill or mistreated. For us in the Workers' Party, however, it is important to stress that there must be political governance to ensure fair distribution. Market solutions and privatisation have never solved the problems for most people, and especially for those with bad advice. We therefore agree to the renewal and conversion. And it's our claim that the community economic proposition and the setting today provide good opportunities for that. Some municipalities have started well, and many are in the starting pit. And it is also important to stress that there are many users who are very pleased with the services they receive from their municipality. A large part of the debate, both in connection with the discussion of the timing of yesterday’s and today’s reports, is about the construction of hospitals and nursing homes. The views are many, but we have to take it inward that there was a one-off promise to the municipalities of 30 billion over four years we made decisions about, not – as some people say – that the state should take over the responsibility of municipalities for the construction of hospitals and nursing homes. The municipalities have been responsible for it every year, and still have to have it. Extra effort should be limited in both time and frame. When one sees the proposal from the central parties that the plans of the municipalities should be given priority, almost regardless of the needs of the older people in other municipalities, my question to these parties is whether they have strayed from the main intention of the elderly bet, namely to give priority to the older people wherever they live in the country. Priority is actually to prioritize, not to let all the municipalities realize their plans because they have made plans. With such great capacity on schedule, priority must be given to it, and a unanimous committee says that we must give priority to them as a need for full-day care. Many municipalities are anxious about how the liquidation of exceptional judgement will turn out. The tables in the proposition scare some. Røyrvik municipality in the Nord-Trøndelag, with its nearly 700 inhabitants, has been suggested a loss of income of approx. Six million. kr. And there are several such small and remote municipalities. However, it is important to remember that these calculations have been made within the same economic framework and municipalities and counties with tax income below 110 pst. of the national average, compensation will mainly be provided through increased discretionary subsidies. I'm not saying that the liquidation does not have consequences, but I think the evolution will not be as dramatic as the tables show.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1414	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1417	Good and accessible services are our main basis for ensuring common well-being and security. If we are to be able to improve the availability and quality of public services, municipalities and counties must have the necessary space for action. Even with the increase of 3.5 to 4 billion compared to this year’s budget, it can be tight for some. The population's expectations for the scale of services and quality are growing. Therefore, there is a need for financial resources, room for manoeuvre and freedom of action to develop local solutions. On this basis, the municipalities of Oppland have indicated that they are pleased that the designation is being reduced. To be fairly distributed, there must be a fair distribution system between municipalities. The employer’s fee is an important regional policy instrument, but it also leads to a distortion of distribution affecting the municipalities with the highest rates. This extra cost is a heavy burden for some municipalities with long-term finances. It would therefore be useful for the Government to assess this effect in its further work on reviewing the local economy and developing the income system. The pace of psychiatry and the action plan for care for the elderly are heavy stakes that will improve the supply to people with mental disorders, and for the elderly and the need for care. The action plan for the care of the elderly 1998–2001 is now entering its final stage. The report on the matter is so far under consideration in the Social Committee and will be dealt with until the autumn. It re-assessses the needs and addresses the effects. The government’s proposals on the use of instruments after the end of the action plan shall be addressed in this context. The action plan is intended to be implemented as originally adopted by the Stortinget and the operating grant shall be escalated. The plan and its implementation are approaching the final phase and there are plans far beyond the targets of the action plan. In order to maximise the predictability and fairness of municipalities in terms of what individual municipalities could expect to receive funding from the Husbanken grant schemes, the Ministry, in its letter form, had asked the county councillors to make a municipal distribution by 15 June. It was important that differences between municipalities should be balanced, and that priority should preferably be given to the heaviest users. There should have been a good basis for a fair distribution within the agreed framework. Unfortunately, I see in the vote that a majority pre-empt the processing of the notification and stop the prioritisation of approvals. This could lead to a lack of priority for the heaviest users, because the plans for some of them are not yet available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1428	The municipal economic plan also has a chapter on municipal structure and inter-municipal cooperation, and it shows that those municipalities that, after political treatment, want a municipality association or to further develop inter-municipal cooperation can receive financial support to implement it. I have no comments on that, I think it is a sensible and good device. There are also municipalities that are close to a county border and that have been involved in regional cooperation and inter-municipal cooperation, but now above the county border. It is true that natural regions do not always follow a boundary. One of these municipalities is Ølen municipality in Hordaland. They have there after in-depth discussions and a referendum that they want to belong to Rogaland County instead of Hordaland, and they have then applied to the Ministry of Local Affairs for such a transfer. Instead of following the will of the people, the ministry has rejected this application. The Ministry refers to the fact that the decision of the Task Distribution Committee will be taken in a short period of time and also indicates that an additional investigation should be carried out to illustrate the consequences for neighbouring municipalities before the case can be brought before the Stortinget for consideration. This is indicated by a letter from the Ministry of the Municipality of Ølen dated 9 June. The beer municipality strongly responds to the contents of this letter on several points. Firstly, it will in any case take a long time before any new county or regional structure will be established. So in the meantime, the people's will has to be set aside. This is quite provocative. Secondly, the ministry says in the letter that a person rejects the application, despite the fact that the Stortinget is the one who is to decide on such an application. Or does the Council of State think that this is a matter with which the Storting has nothing? Thirdly, as mentioned above, the Ministry considers that there will be a need for an additional investigation. Why, then, does the department refuse to initiate such an investigation? What is the point of referring to the position of the Task Distribution Committee if the department is not even willing to assess the consequences of such a transfer, as the population of the beer and the public elected bodies of the beer have agreed? I think that this letter from the department is inspired by central political override and better knowledge. Nor can I understand that the form this letter has been given is consistent with the formal decision-making powers that exist between government and magnification, and I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to explain the ministry's handling of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1445	The municipalities are closest to the inhabitants and know the local conditions best. The county authorities also have tasks relating to the everyday lives of their inhabitants, not least those relating to the provision of transport services that are so important for the functioning of a community. The economy administered to municipalities and county municipalities is crucial for the welfare provision that people receive and the framework conditions for business and housing. In many ways, we are talking here about expenditure on the acquisition of income. I have the impression that the proposal for less designation and greater freedom for municipalities is well received by our municipal and state politicians. However, it is warned against touching the ear-labelled substances that have a smoothing effect. I also think there is a great deal of understanding that population-rich areas need to get income that enables these municipalities to provide good services to their inhabitants. However, there is a danger that an improvement in the situation of the population-rich areas will be financed by cuts in already marginal offers in the district municipalities. In the district municipalities too, there has been a continuous transition in recent years, but for example: distance costs cannot be eliminated when the distances are located. Only a few of these municipalities can withstand reduced income without having to reduce the provision of services to the population. If we are to maintain residence and business throughout the country, we must also secure the future of the district municipalities. I would so strongly recommend to the municipal minister that we look carefully at the evidence that is now available on this from the district councils. I am pleased that the North Norway grant is being proposed further, and I welcome the fact that the cost elements of the grant should be highlighted. People living in the part of the country know these elements very well, and I hope that the people of the part of the country are drawn into the work of the professional assessment. It is not acceptable if the assessment is to be carried out unilaterally by economists and case handlers here in Oslo, without knowledge and knowledge of the particularities of the region. I have also noticed that the Progress Party is going in to cut out the North Norway grant on the grounds that it is helping to maintain the settlement in the districts of the region. The Progress Party says quite directly that rural areas should be rapidly depopulated by reducing the provision of services. I hope that people in the towns of North Norway will notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1462	In connection with the payroll, there were two additional days of holiday, which of course also imposes an extra cost on the municipalities of approx. One billion kroner. In the context of the review of the revised national budget, the Finance Committee asked the Government about this. The government has notified in writing that they will cover this billion through a proposition to the Storting not until the fall. The question is, how has the government planned to cover that billion? Now we have had a debate going on where the main point has been that the budget should be tight, that everything should be balanced, and we have had this crown for the crown-finding logic that the Government has almost hysterically dealt with. Now, when we are dealing with both the municipal economic proposition and the revised budget, and it is known that this additional billion is to be paid to the municipalities, how does the government feel it is not appropriate to balance this in the context of the budgetary audit that we are now carrying out, where, therefore, it has underlined the need to have a tight fiscal policy? Doesn't this billion mean anything? We have heard indications that this billion does not have a real economic effect. It is possible, but it does not have the expenditure incurred in Kosovo, which we have to cover in the context of the review of the revised budget. We also know that the payroll at the top of this leads to another 1 billion in connection with the next year, where the next two holiday days are to be paid. So that means $2 billion. It would have been natural for it to be affected in the municipal economic proposition and, to a large extent, in the revised budget, but it has therefore been chosen by the Government to disregard it. I would like the Minister of State to explain this logical flaw on the part of the Government, how they can argue in this way, knowing that this billion obviously has as much significance for the Norwegian economy as a number of other items, which we have now sought to put in order in the context of the revised budget. It doesn't make sense. And of course, the government is probably hoping that only they'll bend this proposition before the Storting sometime in the fall, drowning it in a drum with other things, so we don't notice that we're spending another $1 billion. But we're going to remember that. I think it's fair to call the government an answer to why this billion doesn't count, when you have to, for example. cutting almost DKK 1 billion in hospital equipment to get Kosovo spending to go together.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1473	I must admit that I am a little sad when I hear the debate here today. We're experiencing a local government sector that – although I'm not going to use the words of deep crisis – has huge financial problems for the time being. We have had huge deficits over several years, and we are several who have to take responsibility for it. I, as a former municipal minister, am also one of those who will take responsibility for it. And as I have said countless times before, and as I also said in my post last year when we dealt with this matter, there is no reason to hide that the municipal economy for the year 2000 is going to be very tight for the municipalities, and that many municipalities are going to experience both 1999 and 2000 as more difficult than 1998, precisely because the local economy was tight. I have never tried to paint the economic situation in the local government sector, on the contrary, I have stressed that we have a part of the responsibility for the local government now experiencing tough conditions. There is no loophole around in the many municipalities, and I also think that we should be involved and take responsibility for it. I think more could actually be worth having that approach. Last year, for the Workers' Party, the difference between a good municipal economy and the ruin for the municipalities was to add a further NOK 1 billion, which we obtained during the budget conciliation last autumn. Although there is a lot of evidence that the deficit can rise to NOK 10 billion for the current year, it was the one billion that was crucial to whether we had a good or a bad local economy. We are in a situation where we have a common responsibility for the situation of municipalities, with the many reforms that have been adopted in the 1990s, which have been partially underfunded, and we should also take responsibility for taking a common promise for the local government sector. But when I asked for the word, it's primarily to say that I don't think anyone's earned with ease and half-truths in relation to what's the real situation. It cannot be undisputed when both the municipal minister and the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party have such an easy way of dealing with the facts as they have had in their speeches. The government's commitment for 2001 represents a growth in relation to the revised national budget of DKK 3.5 to 4 billion, as the municipal minister has quite rightly said. However, it is important to bear in mind that, according to the central government of the municipalities, the revised national budget, in relation to the budget adopted for the current year, means a narrowing of the local government sector of about 10 %. SEK 1.6 billion through salary-fixing, through increased holidays, through an extended employer's period, as proposed by the Government. This means, therefore, that the increase in the municipal economy for next year compared to the adopted budget for the current year is SEK 1.9 to 2.4 billion. So it's absolutely right, as has been said by several people here, that the central government's arrangement in St.prp. No. 1 for 1999-2000 meant a growth in the municipal economy of DKK 1.1 billion. However, compared with last year's revised national budget, which is the comparable document to which this government has now presented its municipal economic proposition, the proposed growth was DKK 3.1 billion. When there was NOK 1.1 billion in the state budget, it was because we had an additional tax intake last year of NOK 2 billion that the municipalities had to keep, which was not withdrawn, and which meant that the growth in relation to the budget was less than NOK 3.1 billion. I think everyone had earned to stick to the real numbers and the real facts when discussing this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1492	One of the most important basic values in any municipality is access to clean water. There's hardly any disagreement. But then it's also important that we ensure this irreplaceable value. This was started through the Water Supply Programme on 1 January 1995. At that time, 1,587 waterworks were registered as providing 100 persons or more. ==References== 600 of these waterworks were considered satisfactory, and these waterworks provided approximately. 2.5 million people. In the first five-year period of the programme, approximately 300 waterworks repaired with the consequence that further approx. 850 000 people have been given good clean water with sufficient hygienic safety under Norwegian drinking water regulations. The programme is allocated to the State budget, with appropriations of 381 million in these years. DKK triggered investments of a total of DKK 2.5 billion. The water programme acts as a carrot for the municipalities and the waterworks. It is therefore important not to deprioritise this programme as it was decided that the programme should continue for a further five-year period. In the budgetary agreement between the three central parties and the Workers' Party, 23 million were cut. kr on this item. In the revised national budget, this item is reduced by a further 3.1 million. kr. Personally, I'm not comfortable with the fact that this is necessary to get a majority for a budget. That is why I would like to stress the need for the Ministry of the State budget for next year to return the money that was found to have to be redistributed from the Water Programme. Most of the remaining waterworks that need to be repaired are on the route from Rogaland to Finnmark. One of the main problems that remains for these unsatisfactory waterworks is the lack of hygiene protection. In this connection, I refer to the events at Bergsøy Vasslag AL in the municipality of Herøy in Møre and Romesdal in January-February 1999. Non-hygienic protection of drinking water from a spare water source resulted in: a spread of 54 cases of disease, of which two persons probably died of the disease80 fishing vessel had to be disinfected due to the fact that they received ice from Fosnavåg in facilitiesto fish farms in Herøy, a total of 11 farms with 300 employees had to be stopped for a period of 30 coastal fishing facilities were tracked and applied to disinfection fish on the way to the market was stopped; Clean and hygienically secured water is vital for maintaining export-oriented food production, tourist activities and rural settlements. It is therefore important that the Water Programme continues during the period for which it has been decided, namely in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1533	The President will draw attention to the fact that she intends to continue this morning's meeting until this matter is resolved, and that there are another 12 speakers for three-minute speeches. – This is for information purposes only.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1536	It's pretty sure that we can hit each other in the head with the numbers until we get completely blue. But it has never been claimed by the Workers' Party that an additional billion will be what will save Kommune-Norge, nor will it be the case with the extra billion that the Centre parties are now proposing. When I take the floor, it's because the centre parties have had a hugely high cigarette feed on the local economy and the Bondevik government's investment in the municipal sector. Let me just remind you that the KS and the local government sector have been claiming that the local government economy has never been more difficult than the last two or three years, i.e. under the Bondevik Government, and i.e. also during a period during which the Central Party moved its entire party leadership into the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. It's a fact that can't be disputed. In the municipal economic proposition presented in the spring of 1998, the Bondevik government posted a real growth in the total income of the municipal sector of 1 and 11⁄4 pst. The Labour Party then proposed a further strengthening of the municipal economy with approximately NOK 1 billion. We never claimed that this was what was supposed to save the municipal sector. We were alone in voting for proposals that would give more money to the local government sector in relation to what was agreed by the centre, the Right and the Advance Party jointly. Thus, despite the generous commitment of the centre to strengthen the sector, they voted against proposals that would provide some strengthening. In the spring of 1999, the Bondevik government added up to a real growth of about 11⁄4 pst. in the local economy. We then showed during the discussion that the proposition contained bids for continued tighter times for many municipalities, and that the proposals from the centre were far from the center's election promises for more money to the municipalities. We then announced an increase in the income of the municipal sector in addition to the Bondevik government proposal, which was passed on to us for the autumn of 1999. When the Stoltenberg government presented the municipal economic proposition in our company, it added up to a real growth in total revenues of about NOK 4 billion, as I pointed out earlier. Now the signals from the center are that this is far from enough. They believe, after two months out of government offices, that the local government economy is dangerously poor, and will add even more. And then you can ask how responsible they were when they were put in position. An expression that has been used in the past still applies, namely that the centre is detached and irresponsible, and that it is better for Kommune-Norway when they are in opposition than when they are in position. Then the representative Meltveit Kleppa and the representative Bondevik have said that the workers' party government is continuing the work of the central government to include earmarked grants in the framework transfers and to simplify the legislation. No, that's not quite right, because the amount of earmarked grants increased continuously during the central government. The central government did not propose a single earmarked grant included in the framework transfers — that is the actual truth. It is possible that certain plans were made when they were put in government offices, but they never arrived at the Stortinget!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1554	The last speaker actually forgot the attempt in 20 municipalities where we were just going to have a different arrangement with regard to the financial transfers. It should be mentioned, in the name of justice! Otherwise, I would like to start by saying, as most people say, that the local economy is alpha and omega to provide welfare services that Norway may be familiar with. Today we have to realize that we are not doing this well enough. Letters and enquiries from the whole country on more money for school, health and care for the elderly are on the way. It is a difficult pedagogical task to say that in order to maintain the budgetary balance, we must run so tight in the public budgets. I have registered that several working party rapporteurs and staging representatives have started to speak in the middle of the discussion. I'll show you here, among other things. to the VG interview with the stammeringsrepresentative Rune Kristiansen yesterday. I think Kristiansen here expresses what most of the big business representatives feel, that it's the social economists who get to dominate the arena, the ones who think they can play the rules in the market economy. Rector of the University of Tromsø uses the term ‘Political adjective for trade union economists’ in the newspaper Municipal Report today. I also ask questions about whether the balance point of the budget is a sacred number. I see several professional economists in the same situation, and some people even believe that a little more use of the oil fund is proper. The centre party waited with tension on the municipal economic proposition after having heard the Workers' Party's promises in opposition and various statements after the lot came into position. But unfortunately we were disappointed. Now it's the Right Party that has given its support to the government's arrangement, and that's making sure that it's a long way to go before we get our community economy uplifted as it really does. The most important future investment a society can make is to invest in school. The central government proposed, and agreed to, a 225-million school package. kr more to the school for a four-year period. Here were among others. a. a start-up appropriation for a new hourly allocation resource at the level of youth. This removed the Stoltenberg Government in its first draft budget! Fortunately, the Storting goes against this cut. I would like to draw up an example from a municipality I know well: I guess the school has 200 students and seven classes with an average of 28.8 students in each class. Expert advice on special pedagogical measures is 41 hours a week, while the municipality can only provide 20 hours. The school building is 35 years old, and the maintenance needs are high. The school has only one janitor, reduced from the previous two. The premises are not designed for L97 at all. The school lacks music rooms, has 15 computers, but too little money for operating costs. The school’s management says on request that they do not have the opportunity to provide alternative pedagogical arrangements for students with special needs. The school for these are directly destructive, says the principal of the school. An improved local economy could at least give several hours to alternative schemes. I stress that this is a so-called well-run municipality, with a working party rapporteur at the head, but the municipality needs more money to provide a school offer that can meet the needs of all students. A welfare society is measured by how to take care of the weakest, and it was not least highlighted in the debate on the anti-diversity message yesterday, but we cannot live up to that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1571	For the first time in this ageing period, we have a municipal economic proposition that takes into account the biases of today's Municipality of Norway. It is good that the Labour Party today has a majority to wind up, among other things. the loss compensation and is carried out in accordance with the previous decision of the Stortinget. We'll now see a redistribution to a much greater extent than before, where, among other things, densely populated areas with low tax revenues receive a greater share of the cake. That's the right direction. Growth municipalities win because they have special expenditure needs. The municipalities will thus be given a fairer distribution and thus more equivalent services to residents across the country. It's the center, especially the center part, opposite. Multiple earmarked grants are included in the framework. The management of detail by the Stortinget is being reduced and local politicians are being given greater opportunities for independent priorities adapted to local circumstances. This is very good. Someone might want this conversion to go faster, but the direction is right. This is what local politicians have been asking for for for many, many years. When we also increase the income of municipalities by NOK 3.5 to 4 billion, this is good. I would also like to remind you that, in addition to this promise, the Prime Minister will spend about NOK 1 billion on the provision of holiday money this year, which will be used next year, as well as looking at increased costs associated with the tariff settlement for teachers. After reading the setting, I have to refer to a bug. Reference is made to the revised national budget and that the planning period for hospital equipment is extended by two years. That's not right. The planning period for hospital equipment is as planned, there is no shift, it must now be possible to determine. Before the Central Party entered the Government Quartet, the promises were beautiful and large when there was more money for the municipalities. The three-year central parties were in government, noticed nothing of the previous promises, and the deficit in the municipalities only increased dramatically from year to year. But now, just a few weeks after they're still in opposition, there are new pretty promises of more money and the cancellation of debt in the municipalities for tens of billions of dollars. The question is, of course, whether the credibility of the Centre Party and the Centre Party is present at such play. I have also noticed that the interconnection of the centre parts cracks on several important points, and that they disagree in several areas of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1582	First, a proposal that SV had in the position on a more general debt restructuring plan for county council expenditure related to hospital investment. It has fallen out, and I will present that proposal in the context of the revised national budget tomorrow, there is an opportunity to do so. It is a more limited proposal than that of the Centre Party, which we think is too wide-ranging for us. But we could imagine that the government was assessing whether it is possible to look at some of the debt situation related to hospitals, because there are major problems, we've discussed that before today. So to the more general debate. I am becoming more and more in the living room – especially after Signe Øyes’ posts now – whether the Workers' Party will strengthen the municipal economy, or whether they will not. The Prime Minister said yesterday that he wanted to, the Minister of State also says she wants to, but you don't want to seek cooperation with those who want it. They say you can't cooperate with SV, because SV says they're going to have NOK 4 billion more. We might have come to an agreement if we had sat down and discussed, and went in the right direction together. I just notice that you didn't want that. And you could get the exact same changes in the income system along with SV that you have now made together with the Right. It must mean that we do not want these changes and strengthen the community sector, that we do not want them, for example. the constraints that must exist in other parts of the economy in order for this to go well and there should not be even greater interest rate increases than we have seen. I have to say that I belong to those who doubt that it is the local economy and presented in the context of which the governor has now increased interest rates. I don't think that's it at all. And in that case, I also think the Storting and the Government could do a job and tighten up where it's possible to tighten in, to increase in those areas where it's possible to increase, and make ours so that this shouldn't get worse than it is. So I need to say a little bit about school. The point of stressing schools when it comes to local economy is that schools get their money from the free income, and therefore the free income is so important. For the school is the most important thing we can bet on, it is the most important common arena we have, and the most important investment for the future. That's where everyone is going to meet, and that's where the quality is going to be good, so you can manage to develop all your abilities and talents. And the SV School is a school that will have enough resources to realize the curriculum, which will provide room for diversity and individualised training. It's a little bit different than the Right configuration, which is more samples and plugs and more equality and unity. We don't think that's a good school. But we know that more money is needed, and then we need a bet on the free money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1597	I find reason to comment on the question of continuing the action plan for the care of the elderly, as this has become such a central topic in this debate. The action plan for 1998-2001 is a comprehensive package of care services, both a major building project for nursing homes and nursing homes, and a power plant for recruiting many more care professionals and for improving their operation. The Labour Party Government promoted this case for the Stortingen in 1997 and the Stortingen concluded on both the extent of construction and the extent of growth in positions to carry out care. The new government has asked the Stortinget to decide on the further implementation of this plan. It is with great surprise that I note that a majority in Stortinget in a superficial way through the municipal economicproposition will anticipate a necessary and thorough evaluation of the action plan for the care of the elderly. The action plan remains a comprehensive care package and not just a housing package. The Minister of Social Affairs explained in a very satisfactory manner what the Government intends to do, by stating that, in the context of the submission of the 2001 State budget, she will notify the State of the contribution to the financing of housing units built beyond the action plan period, and also explained the need for staff. It would have been necessary, as the government announced in the municipal economic proposition, to increase the predictability of municipalities by avoiding first to the mill principle, which now prevails, with a risk of major inequalities in the offer. The government has not set a different ceiling on the development plans of municipalities than the action plan and what the Stortinget adopted. But the Workers' Party is concerned that there will be a good distribution between municipalities. However, I am satisfied that the municipalities can continue to submit applications to the House Bank in the usual way until the action plan is addressed by Stortinget. Although the municipalities have made plans in excess of what is in the action plan, it is not clear from the picture we are seeing today that the actual applications of the municipalities will differ so much from what is now in the plan, namely 24 400. I look forward to treating the action plan in an ordinary way until the autumn of the Social Committee and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1608	I have to say that I was a little stunned over the last article. The representative of the Kristoffersen's perception of who has made changes must be completely ripping mad. It is the government that has made changes to the rules governing the municipal application process before the case has been dealt with in Stortinget, and it is the government that has created confusion outside the municipalities if they will be able to approve the projects they have. If that's how the representative Kristoffersen now says, there's a great probability that there won't be anything much more than 24,400 when the plans are finally finished, I really don't understand why they've done it. The assumption now is that it's going to be 36 000, and that it's going to cost billions in the future. However, we will take that up when this matter comes to treatment for the autumn. I am pleased that this debate has demystified the Right as a partner in the local economy in many ways. In some areas, we are now in agreement with the Workers' Party, and we have a government council that has enthusiastically talked about how much better the distribution policy between municipalities is going to be in the process of making changes, for example. in relation to the loss compensation scheme and in some other areas, to which the Right has submitted proposals for, and not endorsed, for a number of years. We're happy about that. This means that the Workers' Party has gradually realised that the distribution that the Right has entered into with regard to the municipality layout has actually been a better distribution than the Workers' Party has entered into. In addition, I would like to remind the centre parties that leaving the Right as a ghost to the Workers' Party tastes a little bad, remembering Morten Lund, as the Center Party's spokesman, said in the autumn of 1998, after the conciliation with the Centre parties, namely that the agreement with the Advance Party and the Right had actually got a better arrangement for the municipalities because of what happened with respect to reduced taxes and taxes. The freedom of trade in the municipalities grew. I'm glad we're no longer being viewed as the big, ugly ghost in this context. In our opinion, the local economy would be better with the right arrangement and the device. I would also like to say that Kjell Magne Bondevik said something that was wrong in his post. The centre lots did not propose to introduce a special major urban grant. They have written about it in their comments, and I encourage them again to look into proposal No. 21, which will have the same impact in practice. Then I want to get into the specific matter that Einar Steensnæs raised, namely the question related to the municipality of beer. I believe that this matter should be put before the Storting, and it seems to the Right as a party as well. This is one thing in which they have said in a referendum that they want to belong to another state. We should respect that. If it is the case that the Council of State believes that further investigations need to be carried out, I urge the Council of State to carry out the additional investigations, but to bring the matter to the Stortinget during the next major session.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1621	I'm a little surprised at the representative Asmund Kristoffersen's interpretation of what has happened, knowing that the council has written a letter to the statesmen. And if the Council of State had not written that letter to the statesmen, where the Council of State asks for a quota, neither did this remark and this proposal for a decision were relevant. So I don't understand this at all. But what's kind of interesting is that after two days we were able to get the Council of State to understand. We hope that in the next round it is not necessary to spend two days getting the Social Minister to understand the seriousness of what is actually the majority of the municipal committee. It is also worth noting that a government council, in this case the social minister, does not know what is the reason why the government proposes to reduce the funds for the purchase of new hospital equipment. The only thing she said was that if the money was there, they would be standing there unused. It's very easy to fix it. If a truly new hospital equipment is needed to treat patients, it is only a simple grip to remove the property of the county municipality. It's not worse. At that time, hospitals could have purchased the equipment they think is necessary, and replaced the old equipment that stands there and cannot be used, at least not to treat patients with. So here it's just questions of political will to address it. And when one then also knows that probably 99 pst. Of these money would be spent abroad, it would have no impact whatsoever on the Norwegian economy, nor on interest. The central bank manager said in January that if you do not start with tax breaks in this country, and if you do not get a reduction in the price rise, yes, the interest rate will have to increase. We saw the result yesterday. It might have been interesting to make a visit to the Arnesen and North Norway, but I'm going to come back to that some other time. I just want to ask a question to the Council of State, because Steensnæs took this up with municipal convergence. I support Steensnæs there, and I think it is right, as Erna Solberg says, that we should get that case to Stortinget. But then it might also be interesting to know when the Council of State has intended to decide the case of Åram Krins in the municipality of Vanylven.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1632	I feel the need to comment on a few points. First of all, in relation to alternatives when it comes to the arrangements of our debt settlement proposal, I used a wrong expression. I should use the expression 'criteria in the income system' instead of 'constitutional criterion' and I would ask that it be corrected in the protocol. Then I give my support to what has been said by both the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party when it comes to beer. From the Center Party's side, we will also ask that this matter be brought before the Storting, and we are surprised at the way this has been handled by the Council of State. Erna Solberg reacted to the way the Right had been manufactured as partners. It was a quote from Sylvia Brustad that was used in that context. That was the way she characterized Right, and it was an attack on Odd Roger Enoxsen and the Center Party because we had said that it wasn't who we cooperated with, but what we cooperated on, that was the point. That's still the way it is for our part. And then I'm happy with the understanding that it's now across the party and between government and growth when it's about managing the aging plan, first what's left of the plan period, but also what the government has now promised in next year's budget in relation to the coming year. It is not the written orientation of the Government that has caused problems in relation to the Storting, it is probably more that it was not indicated that this was a matter that should have been dealt with in our – that is, St.meld. No Thirty-four. It would have been an advantage both for the Government and for the Stortinget, but not least for the municipalities, in relation to the turmoil that the letter sent on 19 May has created. Then we can still stay in the past. I think I need to remind you of the situation in the Norwegian economy in 1998. I'm registering something strange here. There's actually a difference in the description of the center part's arrangement from a plus 57 million. kr from Hill-Marta Solberg to $2.5 billion after Odd Roger Enoxen and his calculation. I choose to stick to the last and to our proposal as the setting goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1648	I understand that the representative of Enoxsen does not like to be reminded that he had much less money to offer to the local government when he was a municipal minister than he now has, but left it to himself. In any case, it is positive that Mr Enoksen today goes forward and says that he likes to share responsibility for the fact that the municipalities are in a very difficult position, as Stortinget also notes today. What I do not want to accept at all is the statements of Enoch that my post was made out of light wits and falsehoods – or half-truths, as Enoch said. None of the parts are correct. On the contrary, my calculations are very precise, and they can be documented both by the representative of Enoxsen and Meltveit Kleppa if necessary. My comment was to refer to the minimum difference that exists between the way the Workers' Party revises the scheme of the year for the municipal sector, and the centre does. We'll deal with that tomorrow. But in the setting for this year's scheme for the local government sector, which we've agreed on together, the difference is a plus of 57.1 million. kr. That's the difference in the Labour Party's revision of the municipal scheme for 2000 and center when it's adopted tomorrow, that's 57.1 million. kr in contrast to a total sector that has a framework of over 200 billion kroner. I don't know how many zeros you have to have behind the decimal until there's at all a number -- to show how small that difference really is. The point of saying this is that I, like Enoxen, believe that it is important that we stick together when the differences are so small, rather than argue about them – to put it like this – the minatelles. I am convinced that it would serve the sector that we are dealing with today – and in part also tomorrow – and not least I think that the citizens would appreciate that politicians instead of creating the impression of great disunity as to how much we want for this sector, rather should try to find together when there are, in reality, microscopic differences in what we at the seventh and last adopt here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1657	I understand at Hill-Marta Solberg that you need tweezers and rags to see the difference between the municipal arrangements of the Labour Party and the Centre Party for the current year, but this discussion about the arrangement for the next year shows that there may be some major differences. Anyway, what's my big heartbreak when I hear this discussion, with a little bit of speed on the Stortinget, is that when the Workers' Party is in position, it's the center that wants a little bit more to the municipalities. When the center is in position, the Workers' Party wants a little bit more for the municipalities. If you're in a situation where they negotiate with each other, it'll be a little bit more to the municipalities, but it'll be a little bit after the invasion method and a little bit after what year it is. This does not happen in the context of the revision, because then you can run sloppy, and then you end up with a relatively small difference. What is the big paradox is that a large majority of people are unable to give priority over time to a real bet on the public sector and through it a real bet on the municipality of Norway. We're in a gigantic redistribution. It's been around the 1990s. It has meant that the private sector has grown much stronger than the public sector, and it is the paradox that strikes into the everyday life of each of us. It's the paradox my kids see every day at school, when they see how bad it is, when they can afford to clean up half the school and not the other half, while the standard they have private is much higher. That's what's so crazy, when parents who want a good public school start talking about the jam, they'll think if we don't prefer a private school, because our own little poods we don't run and gamble with. In the municipality of Skien, which is near where I was in my childhood, there were several small swimming pools around the 1970s to teach the kids how to swim. It was good trim and fine in winter and at all. Now they're all running out of water, because they can't afford to have heated water and keep them straight. You'll find that kind of trifle all over the place. The public sector, which was developed in the 1960s and 1970s, is now under way. That's why it would have been necessary to have a large number of people who set themselves the goal of systematically redistributing the standard in the public sector, so that we went off farms with a heart rate to the health center, to the school and where it was supposed to be, and that the desire of the public sector, as we would like it. No one should believe that the SV proposal of SEK 4 billion in addition to what the Government has proposed will mean celebrations and conveniences around the municipalities. It's a good suggestion, but it's also very sober to the expectations we have, because we expect a standard that is much better than what we have now, and we expect a diversity of services that is much greater than what we have now. We are going to demand a much more individualised service provision in the future, a much more individualised school provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1668	The President will recall that the regulatory time has now come to an end. The President will repeat, as already indicated, that she will continue this morning's meeting until the matter is settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1671	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg now repeats that the difference between the central and the Workers' Party's revised arrangements is 57 million. kr for the local government sector. Now I have to remind you that the proposal for revision submitted by the Centre implies a growth in the municipal sector of 892 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. Then there's a majority in the Committee on Reapings totaling 640 million. kr, and it is true that in the setting there is a difference. I'm not sure if it's exactly 57 million. NOK, but it is true that in the setting the difference is smaller. But with respect to reporting, I think you can stick to what the Government has presented, which shows the difference between the government's priority and the Storting's priority in relation to the local government sector. That's 640 million. kr, e.g. Because of the reversal of the proposal to increase the employer’s period, the hospital sector has been strengthened by a total of 520 million. And because you've also added to the county roads. Then I have registered that the Minister of State has signed up for a new post, and then I have a few questions. But first of all, with regard to those who might be interested in clarifying the figures for the growth from 1999 to 2000 in the central government structure, I recommend St. prp. No 1 for the current year, read page 19. It appears that the growth in the revised national budget from last year to this year is NOK 3.4 billion and not, as I was injured to say, NOK 3.1 billion. So this is about the same thing as the Government's proposal for this year. It's on page 19. In the municipal economic proposition on page 6, the Government takes a reservation. ‘reserved that the financial framework for the municipal sector may be tightened if the economic situation so permits when the draft government budget is submitted to the harvest’. It's a pretty innocent reservation to take, and it's well hidden on page 6. But this reservation may mean the difference between whether or not the local government sector can count on growth at all. The intention to deal with the municipal economic proposition in spring is that municipalities should have a certain predictability in relation to the treatment of their budgets. I would like to ask: can the Minister of State guarantee that the municipal sector will receive the growth in revenue for next year that has been taken into account in the Community economic proposition, or will the situation in the Norwegian economy be used as a pretext for tightening up when presenting the budget proposal for the autumn, thus creating further problems for the local government sector in relation to the budgetary procedure? Can the Minister of State guarantee a growth of DKK 3.5 - 4 billion? I think we all sit here, agree that there is a need for a rapprochement plan for the municipalities so that there is a correlation between tasks and resources allocated. In the Municipal Report on Thursday 1 June, State Secretary Audun Tron of the Ministry of Local Government says that the municipalities will not receive more money in 2002 or 2003. Does this bring correctness?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1685	First of all, the question of the beer that has been asked by others. I just have to say that what was meant by me when we made this decision was that when we get the position from the Task Distribution Committee on 3 July, the Government intends to file a case on the early next spring, i.e. March-April. Then there is well reason to believe, even after the playoffs from many other parties, that there is a quite significant change in the state structure in Norway. Then I thought that then it might happen that the question of the beer solves itself. That was the background for that. So, of course, I hear what the representatives are saying. I have also been concerned that if a decision were to be made on the situation of the beer now, it had to be further investigated. If that investigation were to be carried out now, it would have taken as long as the case of the total state structure etc. Next spring. So my assessment was: let's take it first, and then it might be that the question of the beer has solved itself. It's my fortune. But I hear what the majority says, and if there's a desire to do it in the opposite order, to nevertheless put it into practice now, of course, there's no problem for me to do it. With regard to the question from Siv Jensen about the billion that the Government signaled for the current year in terms of vacations, it is to say that when we presented the municipal economic proposition and the revised national budget, this was not clarified. That was the 26th of May the letter from the Prime Minister came, and that is the background for us to come back to this with proposals early this autumn. We have also said, as the letter says, that we will then also assess the outcome of the teacher's settlement, and the impact it has on the municipality's economy. When it comes to the posts of the representative of Enoxsen, I think it is a good thing that he takes a share of responsibility for this situation, which he also has a share of responsibility for as a former municipal minister and party leader in the Central Party. But I also don't want to believe that I have been operating with half-truths or light wits, as the representative of Enoxsen has said here. When the representative, Enoxsen, points out that KS points out that there is a tightening of the Government's plan of about NOK 1.6 billion, that is not correct. KS has not taken into account in its figures, to which Enoch refers from this pulpit, that the Government has signaled that we will grant approx. NOK 1 billion in the current year's salary statement. It has not been taken into account that the Government added more to the hospital sector in its own proposal, and it is of course not taken into account that there have also been positive changes during the treatment of the revision here in Stortinget. So there's no tightening, as KS claims, and as Enoxen goes on. Then ask the representative, Solholm, where the matter of Sande, Vanylven and Åram krins lies in the system. To that it is said that the department is working on that matter, and will of course come back to Stortinget with it as soon as possible. I cannot say today just when, but as the representative Solholm knows, I know the matter very well and will of course also come back to Stortinget with it as soon as possible. So Enoxen had a couple of other questions. I'm just going to answer one of them, I think, and it depends on whether I can guarantee that the local government sector will grow to next year. To that I have to say, yes, of course I guarantee that the local government sector will grow to next year. I don't think it's going to be a good idea to pursue and make policies based on the sentence where it says that the municipal sector must also relate to the economic situation as a whole. But there is nothing here that indicates that the municipalities will not get what they have been promised for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1702	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice, and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1705	When the municipal minister doesn't want to live with falsehoods, I take it for granted that the next time she makes the difference between the center and the Labour Party, she doesn't use the multiplication table as easily as she did, when she times up four times the Labour Party's arrangement. So I understand Hill-Marta Solberg that needs to focus on the local authorities' situation this year instead of next year. So now we are in the situation that we have been shown that the deficit in the municipal sector cork was 3.4 billion kroner or 3.6 billion kroner, but 11 billion dollars last year and the corresponding this year. It requires a special insight into and understanding of the outlying situation. It is not enough to correct the problem between municipalities. There is an increased framework and understanding of local government debt that is now important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1712	There's just a few things I want to comment on. First, Mr Enoksen's representative. During the debate on the revision tomorrow, we will probably be given a more detailed explanation of the figures and the difference between the arrangements of the central parties for the municipalities and those of the Workers' Party. But that's 57 million. kr, and that is relative to taking into account what is adopted in the hall, and not all primary wishes. Actually, I asked for the word to comment on SV's Karin Andersen, who asks if it really is the way the Workers' Party wants more to go to the municipal sector. It should actually be unnecessary to comment on it, but $4 billion more is $4 billion more. The working party could get a lot of changes in the income system along with SV if we had discussed the local economy with them and not with the Right, as she claims. It should also be unnecessary, but SV is involved in increasing the tax rate, for example. to 46 pst. Next year. SV is involved in a gradual change in the income draw-out system, from 140 pst. to 130 pst. SV is involved in comments together with the Workers' Party and the Right on loss compensation, loss of municipal corporation tax, etc. So there's a bunch of things SV is dealing with the Working Party and the Right about. I ask you not to make it like the Workers' Party and the Right have their own 'contact'. There's a number of majority in this position that SV is in, so you shouldn't make it like it's just the Labour Party and the Right, because that's actually not true. I also think SV could take inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1721	The Minister of Local Affairs did not answer my question. I am aware that the letter from the Prime Minister came on 26 May. I am also aware that the government has said that this should be done in the autumn. What I asked the Minister of State to explain is how the Government intends to cover the billion that they will grant in the current year, because the entire argument of the Government is built on crowns for crowns of containment, rigour, balance – that everything should be order and order. Then why shouldn't it be the same order in the accounts for this particular billion? Why does the Government think that exactly this billion we can wait with, and then the Storting can adopt that allocation for the harvest, despite the fact that it naturally participates in influencing the economy as much as all the other billions that this big thing grants? That reasoning has not been explained by the Government. The municipal minister avoided going into that debate now. It is possible that it is only the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister who are concerned with this concept of tightness, the crown of the crown-covering logic, and not the Minister of Municipalities. But I assume that the municipal minister is equally behind the government's so-called line of responsibility in economic policy. And then the municipal minister, who is responsible for the entire municipal sector, should also be able to explain why that billion is not important to cover now, but that it can be taken in connection with new aging for the autumn, and that we should in some way not notice it. But all the money that the Stortinge grant and accepts in connection with the revised budget for use in Kosovo, yes, they are to be sold in and paid in crowns, despite the fact that they have no effect on the Norwegian economy and the so-called pressure in the Norwegian economy. And then I have registered, as I also said in my post, that it is argued by the Government that this billion to the municipalities has no effect. Of course it has an effect. That's why it's amazing that the government later feels like this is a bill they can push at. Because I've heard the Workers' Party, especially in the opposition, hammers into the center parties so that they would push bills in front of themselves and be directly irresponsible in their way of budgeting. So in that case, it is exactly the same Workers' Party that is now doing, and I ask the Minister of State to explain this in more detail, because it has not been answered, and I think, with all due respect, that the Storting deserves an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1728	First to the question of the Ølen municipality. I am pleased with the answers of the Council of State. The important thing now is that a process is being launched that will clarify the consequences of a possible transfer from Hordaland to Rogaland, for example. for neighbouring municipalities. The neighbouring municipalities themselves have expressed no concern about this, but the municipality of Hordaland has had some objections. Let's get this clear so that the Storting can make a decision. I then assume that the Council of State has now confirmed that such an investigation will be initiated, and that there will therefore come to Stortinget a matter of questioning the transfer of the Ølen municipality from Hordaland to Rogaland during the next spring. In what context the Government will do this, it will be up to the Government to choose, but I assume that such an investigation should not be so demanding that it would be necessary to postpone this beyond spring 2001. Then I will give full support to what Siv Jensen pointed out when it comes to the increased expenses of municipalities for holiday money. It is obvious that the use of such money works in the economy exactly the same way as other expenditure incurred by municipalities on their operating budgets. If this is not financed by the State, then the municipalities have to do so, and they have the same restraint requirement as for other expenditure they have in their budgets. I can easily mention other expenditure on the state budget that, in my opinion and in real economic terms, does not have the same pressure in the economy as increased wage costs, increased holiday expenses, etc., for example. means of assistance. Of course, a number of direct transfers of funds to international organisations such as the United Nations and the World Bank have no real economic impact in the Norwegian economy. It is equally fully included in the total amount of expenditure to be revalued against similar income here in the Storting. A responsible financial policy requires a balance between income and expenditure, and the job the Stortinget has done. When the government then, after pressing through a demand for tightness – which we agree with – records other expenses in such a simple way and says that this does not have the same effect in the economy, it is something important that is lacking as a prerequisite. I see this as an act that can help to reduce respect for the work that Stortinget is going to do in financial policy, if one in some areas requires discipline, while another in other areas without, in my opinion, fiscally sound justification believes that this can be exempted from the same rigour. The government has not given the Stortinget a satisfactory answer here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1737	Karin Andersen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1740	What the Swedish Labour Party is asking is why they have not used the opportunity to get what the Labour Party says they want, namely a little more to the local government sector. It's true that SV has a primary setup; we think it's right with 4 billion. But I expect that the Labour Party has been involved in negotiations before the Stortinget – if you say you want a little more and you see someone who agrees in the direction, you go to them. And here it's been a majority of the center parties, SV and the Workers' Party that now say they want more. It is quite right, as the representative of Brørby says, that SV is involved in these conversions. And that's why I don't understand what they've got from the Right that they don't want to say out loud – it must be something they've got that they don't say out loud. Because otherwise, they've got everything they want, and then they don't want another penny for the municipal sector. Then that must be the reasoning. So it's not visible to anyone other than the Workers' Party why they haven't gone to the Centre Parties and SV to get more to the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1745	Both to the representative Jensen and to the representative Steensnæs it is important to stress that, of course, the entire government is committed to pursuing a responsible economic policy in order to try to keep interest rates and prices down and unemployment as low as possible. This applies in all areas, and, of course, no ministers are exempt from it. I just want to read a section from the letter from the Prime Minister on 26 May that I am absolutely sure that both the representative Jensen and the representative Steensnæs have read, but I do it anyway. It says the following: ‘The local authorities’ accounting regulations mean that funds must be set aside for holiday pay the year before the payment takes place. Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location. Expenditure on the same holiday extension shall be periodicised among others. different from the State and local government sector. The government sees that the economic effects of such a difference are not an intentional result. The provision in municipalities and county municipalities can be considered as a form of tied savings and therefore does not provide a basis for increased activity in the year in which they are set aside. This additional cost is approximately NOK 1 billion. in 2000. For this reason, the Government is prepared to propose an additional appropriations for 2000 for municipalities and counties of similar size.» As I said in my previous post: The government of course comes back to Stortinget with a case about this in a proper way until the fall, and then there is ample opportunity to discuss all aspects of that matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1757	Just briefly: I had a line to SV's Karin Andersen earlier today, and I stated that it's hard to get what Karin Andersen wants, because we have to have a majority. I hope she's in on it, because the center parties wouldn't negotiate with the Workers' Party, and so there wasn't a majority in what you're making as if we wouldn't give anything more to the municipalities because we wouldn't cooperate with the SV and the center. When the center didn't want to talk to us, it wasn't going to get a majority. That's the world, and you, Karin Andersen, and SV take inwards either you like it or you don't. It's just like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1762	The President will...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1766	Yes, President. I know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1773	... note what Leif Lund now probably thought about, but also that internal committee negotiations on how seats have been during committee treatment, insofar as an internal question is in a committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1776	President! That was in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1783	I became a little confused now when the representative Lund continued the post after he came down to the hall, and became a little uncertain about what he was thinking. I will cancel the claim that the centre has not been willing to negotiate. The center has no power to get any movement towards the center wanted. That's the correct thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15.ana.ud2604e1788	This sounds like a wise president's heard earlier with a bit of alternating participants. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox So we cancel this morning's meeting, and we'll have a new meeting at 2 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3774]]
