ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e66	The representatives of Gunn Karin Gjul, Torny Pedersen and Jan Tore Sanner, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the South Tribute County, Michael Momyr, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e85	The President will propose the election of two presidents for Stortinget’s meetings this week, with the exception of Friday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e90	I allow myself to propose Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e95	Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week, with the exception of Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e112	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 754]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e117	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 to 8 are dealt with together – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e181	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate is held over two days, today and tomorrow, with a total speaking time of 7 hours and 15 minutes, excluding cord changes and 3-minute inserts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 165 minutes, Progress Party 65 minutes, Christian People's Party 65 minutes, Right 60 minutes, Center Party 30 minutes, Socialist Left Party 25 minutes, Left 15 minutes and the Bastesen representative 10 minutes. The string changes are proposed to be arranged as follows: Five replies are given after the speeches by the main speakers of the political groups, the parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three replies by speakers with 10 minutes or more, and after the speeches by the other state councils regardless of their length within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e198	When we presented our government budget on 4 October, the first possibility, after we entered the government offices in March, was to present a budget and a comprehensive policy in the context of expressing what we believe to be a proper political distribution in a comprehensive budget. The budget was based on fair distribution, for differences in Norway have increased over the 1990s. That's why we added that the budget would take something from those who have the most, and give something to those who have the least. And we suggested that there should be room for effort in important priority areas for us, such as the care of the elderly. We're here in the middle of a bet plan, which we're not just following up, but which we're expanding for another year, so we're building a total of 30,000 new places in the care of the elderly. We've got room for commitment in the health sector. We know that Norway is one of the countries in the world that spends the most money on health, but we also know that we do not have the best health service. There is a need for improvement. We have been committed to strengthening kindergarten development, because the need for kindergarten is still not met, and the offer is too expensive. That is why we also increased the state subsidy to kindergartens. We have invested in the school sector, partly by financing the liberal teaching system to offer a better public primary school, a public primary school where everyone has to have the same offer. It's an important point for us that the children of the director and the children of the worker go to the same good school, and to achieve this, the strengthening of the local economy with 5 billion kroner is an important tool. It is the municipalities that provide welfare services to a large extent. When the budget was presented, some commented that there were many good additions here. Criticism against the budget came first on the income side. On the income side, we would have suggested quite significant grips, including: the dividend tax. That we suggested taking 14 pst. tax on dividends paid, watchful reactions. But we think that's right, because 90 pst. the dividends are paid to the 5 pst. The richest in Norway, and then it must be right to ensure that they contribute more to the community than they have done. We also proposed a business cycle tax of 1 1⁄2 p.m., and the reason for this was that while in the 1990s we had problems in business, problems with profit, we have ended up in a situation where the surplus has increased significantly due to measures, also adopted politically. We thought it was right that those who have received help should now contribute somewhat more to the community. We proposed tightening the split model. The tax rules here make some of those who have the highest income here in the country drop off very easily in terms of tax, and pay only 28 pst. on large parts of high income. We simply suggested that those who have the most should contribute more, and combined with that we increase the minimum deduction, which helps people with low and medium wages the best, became the good distribution of the proposals we made. We've had most of that grip, but with a good deal of adjustments. The dividend tax was mainly passed on to us. In fact, the rate was reduced from 14 to 11 p.m., and a bottom day was introduced, but the principle that the richest ones who receive the most dividends have to contribute more, we have managed to maintain. The cyclical fee was not passed on to us. It was replaced by write-offs, by short-term industrial building taxes and a further six months by 1 pst. higher VAT, the increase of the housing Equation Tariff compared to the Government's proposal, and the increase of 1 more ear in the electricity charge. In terms of the division model, we've gotten about half of it. We've had a positive impact on changing the risk add-on and the capital return base. We did not get a pass to adjust the so-called roof and the identification rules in the split model. That means that we've made sure that we get containment, but we don't have as good a distribution as what was in the Workers' Party's actual arrangement. In our arrangement, for example, would be one with taxable income of more than NOK 600 000 on average had to pay NOK 26 600 more in taxes. After the agreement, he will pay NOK 13 600 more in tax – that is, still good distribution effect, but not as good distribution effect as the one we had committed. Then it's said that it's moved large amounts. Yes, there have been large amounts on the income side, even though the number that some people have used, 20 billion, is far from everything. Much of the reason is that as part of the budget this time we have a conversion of the VAT system. With the VAT reform, which has been under investigation since 1985, discussed since 1990, we have finally achieved a more modern VAT system, which other countries around us have, a system in which services are also part of the VAT system. It is a major reform, it is a modernisation of the VAT system, but some changes to the Government's proposals are likely to be adopted. First of all, half of the VAT on food is introduced, while travel, accommodation and transport are excluded from the VAT base. The financing of these additional costs is covered by the general rate of VAT rising from 23 to 24 p.m. As part of the VAT package, we had proposed significant reductions in taxes. For many, awareness of the problems of border trade has grown in recent years. For many in the districts, it feels unfair that the petrol price is at a level that makes those who depend on commuting or depending on the car in their everyday lives pay too much in taxes to the state. Now it is true that the price increase in the last year is mainly due to things other than the fees, but we have still had higher charges than, for example, the fees. Sweden, which many have within short travel distance. Therefore, we proposed that it would be cheaper to buy spirits, i.e. that the alcohol charge was reduced by 17.5 pst. We proposed that the petrol price should be reduced by NOK 1.20, including the VAT, and diesel by NOK 1.13. We've had a pass for the last two. Unfortunately, we had to specify the part that goes on spirits, but that does not mean that there is still no basis for further work in order to make our taxes more similar to those in the countries around us. I am also aware for the first time that the taxes on diesel and petrol are being reduced by a government budget, and they are thus being reduced to a level much closer to that of Sweden than that which has been the case up until now, i.e. a breakthrough, and for the sake of order: significantly lower charges than the right-hand side and the centre adopted for the 1999 budget. Overall, we have been given a responsible fiscal approach, and the economic comments have also gone on that. Both in relation to the government's draft budget and the subsequent budgetary agreement, the comments have been made that this is a good contribution to reducing the pressure on interest rates from fiscal policy, and that we can hope, in this way, that it will stop the interest rate rise we have seen in recent years. It is also a necessary starting point for maintaining the solidarity option, which has given us excellent results over the 1990s, primarily increasing employment. We are one of the countries in Europe, and one of the countries in the world with the lowest unemployment rates. We are one of the countries in the world with the highest employment rates, never have more been in work in Norway than is the case today. It is a result of the solidarity option. It is also a result of stable framework conditions, and therefore I am also pleased that there is a broad consensus that we should not change the role of the Bank of Norway in relation to monetary policy, and that there is a broad consensus to continue the lines that have been in force until today. Much of the basis for good economic performance in Norway is the moderation line, the fact that it has been possible to achieve real wage growth by the fact that wage supplements have been moderate while we have managed to keep the price rise down, so that it becomes net in the pay bag. We have received this because the trade union movement in Norway has taken a great responsibility and has gone ahead and shown moderation. Workers have simply set out to sort out the country's economy, and a necessary prerequisite for continuing that line is fair distribution. In such a perspective, what we have seen in the last year of dividend policy, dividend fixing, is that management wages have increased much more than usual, by parachutes, bonus schemes and other special arrangements for business leaders in Norway, a burden on the solidarity option, and that is what can undermine the solidarity option in the future. In order to set up, the trade union movement has done so, but it must also be reasonable that not a few of the farms with the profits that are created. If we were to cut billions into the sick pay scheme or reduce the AFP scheme for the underprivileged workers, as some people now propose, it is clear that, in the same way as the paycheck and the leadership wage level, it would help undermine the willingness to set the moderation line forward. The budget has moved to NOK 1.5 billion on the expenditure side. Last year, it moved to NOK 1.9 billion. But first of all, it has been marked by the budgetary agreement that the political centre of gravity lies in the frontier country between the Workers' Party and the Centre. Now we've used the political center of gravity. We have used it to provide a fairer distribution, so that more people can receive health care in Norway for next year, so that more people can get better care in the care of the elderly, so that we can have more kindergartens, a strengthened community economy, increased assistance for the poor in the world, so that we can strengthen the environmental sector, etc. We have done so primarily within a responsible economic framework, which is good for employment in Norway and good for those who are in debt in Norway. In this way, I would say that the budget agreement brings Norway forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e228	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e231	The representative, Andersen, was involved in the local economy, and the Workers' Party also writes something in its comments about this. They write that the goal is an equivalent municipal offer across the country. In fact, it's not an equivalent municipal offer, and the Workers' Party has been involved in creating the system that makes us have huge differences. I'll do a short example. Porsanger municipality in Finnmark and Tjøme municipality in Vestfold have both 4,500 inhabitants. Over the framework, both municipalities receive a community grant of 34 million. kr in the case of Porsangers and SEK 32.5 million. kr in respect of hemorrhage. It is quite reasonable that it is then possible to make a relatively similar municipal offer. But then we have other arrangements. The North-Norway grant adds 25 million to Porsanger. NOK 14,5 million and the discretionary grant. kr, while Empty only gets 1.5 million. In addition, kr. The sum of the municipality of Tjøme is 34 million. kr. The sum of the municipality of Porsanger is approx. Seventy-four million. kr. In addition, Porsanger does not pay the municipality an employer’s fee, which amounts to a good 10 million. kr. This means that the difference between these two small municipalities with 4,500 inhabitants over the framework plus this with the employer's fee is 50 million. kr. Does the Workers' Party believe that this is possible, for example: for Tjøme to have as good a municipal offer as Porsanger has, with this huge economic difference that, after all, is politicians-made, and where the Workers' Party has been the driving force to create that difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e240	When you look at the proposals of the Progress Party for municipal planning in recent years, it is quite amazing that the Progress Party dares to include this theme in a line-by-line exchange, because it is cut across the line that characterises the municipal structure of the Progress Party. I've been looking at the figures for the Progress Party this year. My small municipality, Lardal, a Vestfold municipality in Monsens and my constituency, is losing 2 million. kr if the arrangement of the Progress Party was to go through this year. And Tjeme, who was now used as an example, would, if the municipal arrangement for the Progress Party was adopted, lose NOK 1 036 000. It is true that there is a great difference between districts and central district economics. We have actually done something about this through the municipal structure that has now been laid down, because it is true that some municipalities in the East have too little money to help their citizens with it. Now we're taking the right steps, it's going the right way after the government's arrangement in the municipal economic proposition, which came in ours. But there is no solution to choosing an economic model for the municipalities that both Porsanger and Tjøme would lose. And if we chose the municipal structure of the Advance Party, it's clear that Tame, who was used as an example, would lose over 1 million. kr. I can't believe there could be any good offer for Tjøme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e249	So the Christian People's Party and the other central parties have a budgetary settlement with the Government. The central profile we've been given in this budgetary agreement is actually a good one, because initially, the government showed its budget a great deal of bias that we had to do with, and that was totally out of date for us to support. As time went by, it also turned out that it was actually worse than we thought. That's why there was a move of almost 22 billion dollars in the budget deal that we have today to deal with. But anyway, Dag Terje Andersen says that the government has been impressed by most of what they have proposed. And then I'm actually wondering how many billions to move before the Labour Party admits that there have actually been major changes in the budgetary process we've been through. Among other things, Dag Terje Andersen says that they have had an impact on the principle of dividend tax. Yes, so far, but it is a principle that only applies for one year, for next year it has to change – we are also a few about that. When it comes to the divisional model, he also said that they had had an impact on half of their proposals, but it's actually the center party that takes care of the principle. Now there are many who have commented on the budgetary agreement, and so has Dag Terje Andersen's party comrades, both representatives here on the Stortinget and representatives of the Government. In fact, several of them have said that the budgetary agreement that will be adopted tomorrow is far better than the draft budget that the Government submitted some time ago. My question to Dag Terje Andersen is: Does he agree with his party colleagues that we have actually received a better budget with a better distribution, which also takes care of the jobs, in the budgetary agreement to be adopted, than what the Government actually presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e260	If the Labour Party had thought that what is now the budget agreement is better than the original budget, we would have proposed what is now the budget agreement. But what I mean by that we've been through is that we've had a positive impact on the main action, on getting revenue to solve common tasks. We've had an impact on fairer distribution, but not as good distribution as we'd suggested, as I showed with my example in terms of the high-income groups. They have made sure to take care of them, both by not going into our proposals on the sharing model, and by changing it many times since 1992 to the benefit of the high-income groups. We wanted to reverse some of that. We didn't get the center on that -- that's right. We didn't get the center fully involved in the dividend tax, but we're going a long way. And in terms of dividend tax, it's not exactly a defeat that it's proposed to be adopted for just one year, as it was proposed for one year. No, $22 billion is a wrong number. Then sums up the annual impact of the VAT reform, the investment tax, which comes only in 2002, etc. etc. And that number is going to be too high. The reality is that of what we're going to spend on money in Norway over the state budget for next year, it's moved to NOK 1.5 billion. Last year, it moved to NOK 1.9 billion. It's given a slightly worse profile than we did, but an acceptable profile, and so we defend the compromise even though the starting point was even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e267	Once the government has proposed the largest tax increases to businesses in Norway for many, many years, it is bad. But they're not all alone in that company. The Bondevik government also proposed tax increases to Norwegian jobs in the 1999 budget. At the time, financial advisor Hill-Marta Solberg proposed by the Bondevik Government as ‘very strong tax increases’. It was less than the Stoltenberg government has now proposed. But it was so bad – just to remember it – that the Workers' Party was willing to go along with the Right, with the consequences it would have had, to remove the increases that were in the Bondevik government's proposal. My question to Dag Terje Andersen is: What really is the difference between proposing strong tax increases now and doing so at the time two years ago? It seems like who is proposing it is more crucial for the Workers' Party than what is actually in the proposals. In the Workers' Party's remarks in the thickness of a position on the boards – at least in some cases I see – you can read at the very beginning a very strong wording that I must agree with, namely, that 'the lack of labour will limit the potential for growth in the economy' – probably for many years to come. It was also strongly underlined by the Minister of Finance in the financial speech. Then my question is: what is the reason why neither the Government's proposal nor the Labour Party's follow-up in the Storting contains proposals that in practice will increase labour supply? In fact, the time is now spent in this debate so far to warn against the attempts of other parties, for example. to do something about the sickness pay scheme and the growth of expenditure there, with the disability benefit and the growth of expenditure there and with the AFP scheme accordingly. Why do you warn against doing something about what you're actually highlighting is the main problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e276	Since the representative Foss's line is directed towards the Workers' Party and not the Budget Agreement, I am based on the budget that we presented. When we proposed tax increases, it was in areas where there is actually money, i.e. where there are created values. For example, we proposed a tax on dividends, because while the dividends paid in Norway in 1992 were SEK 1.5 billion, in 1998 it was increased to DKK 17.7 billion. That's one of the main reasons why we've got more inequality in Norwegian society. There is money that is created, among other things, of moderate wages and salaries, with which some farm protrudes. Then we thought it was fair to take some of that. In the same way, it is with the short-term charge. We reduced the employer's fee in 1992 when there were bad times in the company's life in Norway. And that's why we thought it reasonable to tighten up a little – temporarily – when it goes down in the private sector. That's the background for us suggesting it. In the case of labour shortages, the right-hand side of what Per-Kristian Foss now says. For what is the Right proposal in its budget? Indeed, they propose to reduce labour market measures, which are one of the main means we have to ensure that people who become unemployed in the labour market have the opportunity to enter new professions, in new jobs, for example. But attacking the welfare systems of the workers, yes, that's right-wing. For example, the Right proposes a reduction in the sick pay scheme that would result in an average female industrial worker in Norway having a cost of DKK 4300 per year. This is not the way we see it as stimulating to get labour into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e289	In the Central Party, we are pleased with our stamp on the budget agreement: halved food tax, exemption from passenger traffic, travel and culture, fairer taxation, more on transport, environment, culture and voluntary work, and a solid strengthening of the local economy. $1,250 million. kr more than the government's proposal, it can, for example. in my county, 19 million. Extra NOK 6 million to Stavanger. kr to Haugesund and two settings in Lund. At the Central Party's initiative, the government must come to Stortinget with a review of the local authorities' debt situation – SEK 67 billion in net debt, partly because the state has underfunded both the old-age reform and the basic school reform. The center party would go further. We were in charge of the Christian People's Party and the Left towards the Labour Party with a demand for a one-off settlement for the municipalities of 15 billion kroner, for debt relief for those who need it, for a fund provision for future investments for those who have been most cautious. That would mean an easy amount of nearly $2 billion on loans, instalments and funds in 2001. Badly cut school and leisure provision, when it comes to home care and night shifts, support contacts and possessions, child protection and prevention and repairing measures before the drug field would be avoided. But the Labour Party would not. In the spring, the Labour Party itself proposed to cover nearly 7 billion kroner in excess of the Gardermoban. A deposition to the municipalities of the corresponding two wardrobes, with the hope that it would give too many people in our country, was rejected by the Labour Party. I would like to give the finance committee's leader the opportunity to explain such a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e301	It was an incredible line really. So it's now a little over six months since the representative Meltveit Kleppa put in government, and that government sat for two years. When she now describes the situation in Norwegian municipalities, there is quite a degree of self-recognition that one would possibly need that type of cleaning action after the centre has been in government for two years, with the central party council in the Ministry of Local Affairs. It is true that what we originally proposed to the municipalities in the budget was NOK 5 billion. It's not just that there's one more and a half billion dollars more than we promised in May, but it's actually so that there's as much as the center promised in May. The first time the Centre's promises have been made in the area of municipal economics is when we present budgets. So Meltveit Kleppa claims that there are a lot of contractions that result from the municipalities having a lot of debt. Yes, the municipalities have a lot of debt, and so the majority of that debt is worked out while Meltvej Kleppa was appointed the government council and the center. We're doing a lot in this budget to clean it up. And I'm glad that Meltveit Kleppa in this excellent way helps to clarify the consequences for the municipalities of two years of central government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e310	When one hears the preceding lines, one would not think that it was these two parties that have just been settled and are very pleased with the budget that one will later adopt. I guess that's also saying that if it really was the way the Center Party thought that the municipal economy was the most important thing, you could negotiate it and not reduce food tax, to take an example. What I would like to challenge the chairman of the committee is the following: he is very pleased with this budget, it is a responsible budget that points forward. But what you're doing here is you're pushing a bill of at least $10 billion in front of you. So you take the entire investment fee and you say you agree that it should be removed, that's NOK 6.5 billion. You haven't covered in half the food tax to be reduced, it's over NOK 3 billion. Then you have a lot of it as Mr. Foss is called a 'harry-cut', which means that money is pushed in front of you, which is to be covered in the revised national budget, or at a later date, which is cut in this budget. So in total, over $10 billion is going to be covered into some unknown future. My question is, can this be responsible? If that is really the way the sacred budget balance and the responsible use of public funds are, how is this money to be recovered? Are they to be covered by new tax costs or increases next year, or are they to be covered by new cuts in the public economy? It is striking to note that the concept of accountability is what is most widely used in this room and in the political environment throughout the autumn. I don't have a problem understanding that Andersen's representative is very pleased that you've got a deal, because I guess what you're really most satisfied with is that you're still in government, and not much of the policy content. So this is where you allow yourself a grip that would have been called totally irresponsible by entering into a settlement where you push over half of the settlement money in front of you without telling you how to cover it. So my challenge to Andersen is: how has the Workers' Party thought – if they're in government next year – that you should cover this entire bill of $10 billion? Is it in the case of increased taxes, or is it in the case of cuts in common consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e321	Firstly, it is wrong when the representative, Djupedal, says that half of the VAT package is not financed. The VAT package is funded, but it's a revenue for the first six months of next year that's the result of that 24 pst. is introduced six months before the VAT reform itself. It's something other than that the food tax is not financed, so it's wrong. I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression, but "harry-money" is a term that many people know and that some people serve. There's nothing in the deposits that's now. There are real transfers in the budget of everything that stands there. However, it is true that the investment tax that comes only in 2002 is not fully covered, in which the representative Djupedal is entitled. We have in a way taken the first instalment, because the cyclical tax on barley is paid in arrears, it does not give money to the next year at all, but by introducing it to the next year, it gives money in 2002, which is the first instalment. With regard to the other income needs of the country, it is impossible to define now in November 2000 the income needs in 2002. Small changes in employment e.g. increases tax revenue; small changes in consumption patterns increase VAT revenue. It is therefore impossible to see today what needs we have for funding in 2002. The representative, Mr Djupedal, can be sure that, to the extent that our government is going to present that budget, it will also be financed in a responsible manner, no matter how boring it may seem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e332	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e335	Imagine if we could adopt tomorrow a budget where the majority of the political groups said to the Norwegian people that since things are going so well with the Norwegian economy, since the state is just getting richer and richer, since the profits are just getting bigger and bigger, the people should of course also benefit from this. So this is a fortune that we – the Norwegian people – own, and it should be possible to reduce taxes as well. But we're not going to do that, and I have very big problems understanding why. The Progress Party believes that the Norwegian economy can grow more with lower price increases and lower interest rates. However, it assumes that we focus on productivity improvements and increased employment through both short-term and long-term measures. In the budget of the Progress Party, there are proposals for lower charges, which will directly affect prices, and therefore also interest rates. There are proposals for lower taxes, which will increase the efficiency of the economy and our willingness to work. It has an effect on purchasing power and therefore on payroll. We propose investment in research, investment in road construction, investment in technology leading to efficiency improvements and productivity growth. We suggest investing in hospital equipment, which leads to increased patient treatment, fewer cows, fewer social security benefits and more people at work. I wish Prime Minister Stoltenberg and Finance Minister Schjøtt-Pedersen could tell me why it is so unreasonable to invest our wealth of money, at least a little bit of it, in road construction, rather than salting all our wealth into foreign funds. For both are property positions. And if we use them on sensible investments in Norway, we are thus creating a basis for increased growth and more well-being. The Progress Party has proposed spending SEK 2.2 billion more on road construction in Norway. But we're not going to do that, believe the Workers' Party and the Centre and the Kutter in the transport appropriations next year, despite the fact that this is one of the most fundamental measures to speed up the Norwegian economy. And I wish the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance could tell me why the state is a better manager of money than Norwegian business and people most. Because that must be what you think when you are going to charge more taxes and taxes than we need. In that case, it must be said that most ordinary people and businesses in Norway do not have a bearing on the responsible management of money. And I wish the same two could tell me why it is absolutely necessary to play the world champion in alcohol taxes, in petrol taxes, in tobacco taxes, in car taxes and in all other product charges. Why do they have to be so tall? Employment costs in Norway are high, but it must be a misunderstanding when it is believed that being a world champion at high rates helps to increase competitiveness. The Swedish shall reduce to the German level the level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco and a number of other charges. The distance between Norway and Sweden is already high, but as a result of Sweden’s even lower charges, border trade will explode again. And we're going to sit here on the mountain and stick our heads in the sand. Look at the car charges. Norway has a very old car park. People can't afford to buy new cars that would be more environmentally friendly and safer in any accident situations. But here, too, we play world champions. If we had lowered the charges, we would renew the car park and ensure that families of children could drive their dear children around in safe, safe cars that also contaminated less and were more environmentally friendly for Norway. Now let me not hear that the Progress Party opens all the locks and does not think about the Norwegian economy. Because we do. But every year we've been silenced by the fact that it's the Workers' Party that can run a responsible economic policy. And you use that concept for everything it's worth: – responsible economic policy. But that should in reality mean lower interest rates and lower price increases for the Norwegian economy. My experience is the very opposite. Despite talking about accountability, about the sacred budget balance, we've seen that interest is just rising, that hospital queues just get longer, that crime just gets worse. And the difference between rich and poor that you're so busy talking about, you don't do anything about it. All you do is make sure that people have to pay more taxes and more taxes into the state fund. The Centre argues that they have managed to reverse the worst in the Labour Party budget. But I think it's more real to compare the reality we have today, before we have adopted any budget, with the reality we will have after the budget has been adopted. The reality is that there will be more taxes, there will be more taxes, and there will be disappearing little extra bets in the areas you're talking about that you're so concerned about taking care of. For the second consecutive year, the Labour Party and Centre have agreed to increase taxes and charges for business and for most people. And when they comment on the budget agreement, they claim that this is a good budget for the country, it is a responsible budget, it is a budget for more well-being and lower interest rates. But with all due respect, it's not. The center parties are talking about block independence. Depending on what? It is starting to become more and more obvious to me that now it is also completely independent of the content of the policy. First, in this period, we had two years of tax cuts. That was when the centre parties negotiated with the Progress Party and the Right. Now we've had two years of tax and tax cuts. This has been done after cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre. But there's no demonstration of block independence. It's a demonstration of political schizophrenia. Do the central parties really have such an unprincipled relationship with taxes and taxes? In their comments on the suspension, they mention the need for predictability in the framework conditions for business. And what are they doing? Yes, they change the rules, tighten the tax – and, in addition, give retroactive effect! In other words, the framework conditions that were thought to apply this year are suddenly no longer applicable, because someone needed to balance the budget. It's going to be noticed on the electricity bills for people that you're now going to increase the electricity charge. It will be noted that those with lower incomes are hit twice as hard as those with higher incomes. The whole line of reasoning is that this budget has a good distribution profile. From the new year, the VAT rate is set at a further 1 percentage point. That means that everything we do and everything we buy is going to be more expensive. Who's hit by that? They're not the ones who have a lot of money from before, because they can afford it. But it's just those lower incomes that will get even less to go with because you choose to set the VAT rate. On repeated occasions in the last months and years, central labour party politicians have said that alcohol taxes should be reduced. Now they're not going to. It's dangerous near a breach of promises! Business is hit hard. Now you have to introduce a differentiated electricity charge. So that means that companies don't have to pay a fee on the flow they use for production, but they have to pay a fee on the flow they use for administration. So a new bureaucracy is needed to check what the company actually uses power for. It is dangerous to get the title ‘watt police’ when you are going to use the resources of companies to control what you are using, to be sure that you will be exempted according to what these parties have now agreed. And then you come up with proposals to increase the so-called dividend tax. Several small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in District Norway, have reacted strongly to this. These are enterprises that have for a number of years saved capital in the enterprise to ensure that the same enterprise can withstand a decline and can maintain jobs in bad times. So now they're going to be punished with 11 pst tax. extra, because they have chosen to save the capital of the company instead of the bank. The same companies that do not have negotiable shares must be satisfied with their potential investors 7 pst. better returns than, for example: Orkla, Hydro and the other major companies in Norway. It is not a small-scale business-friendly policy. It's making companies stop their business and move to the rest of the world. This reduces depreciation rates with retroactive effect. These are not foreseeable framework conditions. This also means that the tax base is increased for all enterprises. Profitability assessments are distorted and initial investment is hindered. And then you're not going to introduce the general cyclical charge, which is good, but you're replacing it with 10 pst. business cycle tax on so-called ‘business buildings’. Then I have some questions for the partners. Road cover shall build a new school for a municipality in Norway. So the municipality has to rent the school building of Road Deck. For Road Deck as a company, this building is considered to be a commercial building, but for the municipality this is a regular school building. Will Road Cover pay a fee on this built, or shall they not? It is not clear from this agreement. In the case of an entrepreneur who builds a car park, where half of the places are to go to the house, 30 pst. to office premises and 20 pst. to business, to what extent shall the parking space be affected by this charge? And how is it to be applied? What about building projects that go over several years – construction that has started but will not be completed before two to three years? How is it to be charged – since it has been notified here that this is a fee that will only apply for one year? Here's a lot of tax food for lawyers and Equation Offices and more bureaucracy. While it is said that this levy will apply for a year, it is said that the investment levy should be removed from 2002 onwards. That means that those who have a reason for it can save 17 pst. the costs of waiting for the type of investment until 2002. But for some companies it's not possible to wait. We are getting more and more enquiries from companies that see that they do not do this extra cost, and that see only one option, and that is shutting down the business. It's the same small and medium-sized enterprises in District Norway that have become the spokesperson for many, many years, that are affected by this. And then this is not a budget for more well-being and fairer distribution, because the richest in Norway are going to continue to be, and those who are poor are getting more expenditure. It is not that this budget takes from the rich and gives to the poor, who you try to pretend to be. You might take a little bit from the rich, but at least you don't give it to those who need it, and then it's not a budget for fair distribution. In any case, I believe that the difference between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties is a choice between more taxes and even more taxes. I should probably praise the center that the sharing model doesn't get tangled up any more this year. But I'm not worried about the split model disappearing in 2002, or the investment tax disappears in 2002, or that the cyclical tax will only apply for one year and then disappear, and that we seem to get a new tax system, we just don't know what it is yet. The reason why I don't worry about it is because you don't know what's going to happen instead. We thought for a moment that the Workers' Party and the Centre agreed on a new tax system – even what it would look like. But just a few days after the budget agreement was concluded, it could be seen that the Centre's fiscal spokespersons had a completely different view of a future tax system than the Workers' Party had. And then one has been able to formulate such a small commitment that the uncertainty about what our future tax system is going to end with is greater than ever. But the worst thing is not that I get worried about this. The worst thing is that business is walking on needles and worrying. For there is no predictability, and there is so much uncertainty that no one dares to bet in the long term. It would be thought that the Labour Party and the Centre had created a budget for a poor country with large government debt and significant budget deficits. But it's not like that. Even in countries in Europe with major economic difficulties, the sharp opposite trend of what is seen in Norway is seen. It can be seen that they are cutting taxes and taxes to increase competitiveness and attract businesses and capital. But in Norway, we obviously have to do everything differently. The VAT reform is now being adopted, with some changes brought to the centre. But the situation is really exactly the same. There's going to be distortions of competition, there's going to be an increase in costs, and it's getting remarkable results because you haven't really thought about how to halve the food tax. The point of progress fully agrees that it makes sense to reduce the food tax. But then you should at least make sure that it was about groceries in the store. Instead, you get these precious results that we've seen enough examples of lately, where it's going to be lower VAT if you take the food out on the street and eat it than if you sit down in the restaurant and eat it. And as if that's not enough, you have to pay full VAT on the water you drain out of the spring, but you have to pay half of the VAT on the water you buy in a bottle at the store. Obviously, the consequences of a reform that is to be speeded up without thorough pre-treatment of reality have not been taken into account here. So the chairman of the finance committee, Dag Terje Andersen, said that the municipal economic structure of the Progress Party would weaken the economic situation of the municipalities. It's wrong. We've gotten the Central Statistical Office to figure out the consequences of our arrangement. There it becomes clear that with our arrangement, the local economy will be strengthened by billions of dollars compared to what the government has put up to, because we believe in the effect of lowering the fees so that they affect the prices, because we think that lower taxes will affect the wage costs. Instead, we are now in an evil spiral, where the solution year after year is to collect only more taxes and more taxes. It is not a responsible, comprehensive arrangement that is good for the country. It's a scheme that keeps the state getting richer, while the most basic welfare tasks that we as the population actually expect to be solved on behalf of all of us are getting worse and worse. It shouldn't be like that. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has made in the voting, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e387	Siv Jensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e392	First, the representative Jensen described a Norway that I don't know all about, to put it that way. There is probably some crisis maximisation and expression of the situation in spite of all a welfare society, with its shortcomings, with which it is difficult to identify. She also said that during the two years that the central government agreed with the Right and the Advance Party, there were significant tax reductions. But that's wrong. The fees went up, they. When the Progress Party voted in favour of the budget in Norway, taxes on alcohol went up, except for one year. With regard to the tax on petrol, it went up, with regard to the diesel tax, it went up — yes, even the snuff tax went up sharply when the Progress Party was involved in creating a budget for Norway. It is okay that the Progress Party suggested primarily lower charges, but the reality was that the fee went up. It's interesting to hear the representative Jensen talk about other parties. But what could be interesting to hear a little about are the things that she doesn't say anything about in her own party's budget proposal. For when you have so much money for all the good purposes of the Progress Party, why is it that you have to cut labour market measures, for the weakest in the labour market? Why is it that aid must be drastically cut? Where is it that half of the support for the school leisure system, which thousands of parents around the country depend on? And why is it that you have to capsize over $3 billion on the health pay system, a system that we know that the least-earned people need the most? Why is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e401	It is well possible that Dag Terje Andersen and I have a different view of how the welfare society in Norway is. But I think it's wrong, when the Norwegian economy goes as well as it does, to continue to increase taxes and taxes both for business and for most people. I think it is wrong, and it would have been quite possible to do something else. And here's the Progress Party's alternative state budget. Yes, we have suggested some cuts, and why do we have them? Why in all days should we continue to have a labour market seat that conveys work to healthy, working people, an establishment that has also proved that it is not able to do the job it seems to be doing? What we have done, therefore, is to reduce the level of employment down to a labour market seat that is just to focus on those who are disadvantaged in the labour market, and that must be good. The regular employment service can then be run by private agencies and between enterprises and individuals in the labour market. It must be excellent to reduce bureaucracy in this way, but the Labour Party will not. It's not like we're cutting into the school leisure system. We're doing just like the government, transferring this through the municipal framework to the municipalities and letting the municipalities control what is the task as it is to be solved today. The exact same thing you do. Our proposal for a sick pay scheme and a number of other measures are necessary to improve the functioning of the labour market. There are just measures that make us work instead of being in a hospital queue, and that we are at work instead of being at home, which can help us get more out of every penny, and can make the labour market work better. The Labour Party has not proposed a single measure to improve the functioning of the labour market. Therefore, it is not true when the representative Andersen tries to criticise this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e412	In the Christian People's Party, we are committed to taking other political parties seriously, but then I argued that the submissions presented are realistic, and that a serious one. On the basis that the Progress Party says they want to be involved and take political and economic responsibility for the development of our society, I have gone through their option to see how they invite to any cooperation. Sorry: the exact opposite is the case. The entire draft budget for the Progress Party is based on another economic idea. Not only that, but it's not a gradual transition they're thinking of. They're going to break across the board, with a lot of tightening up – as the leader of the committee was in. In addition to what he said, I can also refer to the agricultural agreement with a reduction of over NOK 6 billion. My question to the representative, Siv Jensen, is this realistic budgeting? And is this a signal of the will to take responsibility with the other party for the development of our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e419	Yes, I think this is very realistic budgeting. But why should the Progress Party become like all the other parties before it is supposed to be in a way that we should be allowed to take responsibility? The whole point is that the Progress Party wants to pursue a different economic policy. Because we think it's possible to reduce taxes and charges, because we think it's possible to invest our wealth in our own country and because we think it's possible to take some leverage, we're doing things differently than the other parties. Had we been like all the others – if all were quite alike – the whole purpose of being an opposition party or a party that wanted to take government responsibility would have been gone! Realistic budgeting is that the economic proposals are linked. It's not necessarily that our proposals, because they're different from the Christian People's Party, are suddenly unrealistic. It is not the case that the Workers’ Party and the Centre have a monopoly on using the expression ‘accountable budgeting’. I just want to remind you that in our alternative state budget, we are also transferring SEK 170 billion to the oil fund. We're saving, too! But we think it's possible to use some of the huge wealth this country has to build the basis for more well-being by investing and by speeding up our hospitals, so that people, instead of being in a hospital queue, could get out of the difficult situation and be in work. And it is not the case that any aid and subsidy scheme that exists today must continue forever and ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e426	Since I am not a member of the same party as Carl I. Hagen and the representative Siv Jensen, I take the opportunity to be critical of parts of the Progress Party's policy. [[Laughter]] When you listen to the representative Jensen, you get the impression that there's a magic agent: it's pouring more money into the economy. The same alleged conjurer believed the voters in the municipality of Us too. Another Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party was appointed rapporteur in 1999 on the promise of free sewing for all older people. The councillor now suggests increasing excesses for the elderly — not in the south, but for the users of home care. After the sweet itch comes the sour wean. The representative Jensen also opens up the money bag in his election budget and wants to spend much more oil money. This gives a strong boost to demand in the Norwegian economy. And it's well known that this will lead to increased interest rates to keep inflation in check. I respect the right of the Progress Party to believe that right-wing policy is a good policy, and I can only say that the Right and the Advance Party are fundamentally in disagreement on this point. I know of course the argument that lower charges will lead to reduced prices until next year, so the representative Jensen will not repeat it. I would like to admit that it could be thought that there would not have been inflationary pressures and increased interest rates as early as next year with the alternative budget of the Progress Party. However, there is little doubt that if the Progress Party had dared to allow the Central Statistical Bureau to count on the effects over two to three years, the response would be increased inflation and higher interest rates. What I want the representative Jensen to answer to is: how much higher interest would most people expect in 2002 if the budget of the Progress Party had been adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e438	First: To the representative Burnde's attempt to stab the knife into a difficult situation, I have not at least recorded that there is some political disagreement in the Progress Party. So to try to present the budget of rapporteur Terje Søviknes as if you had been a loser. Tomorrow, Søviknes – the Advance Party and the Right in the municipality of Os – is presenting its draft budget, which is not the same as the councillor’s. It may well be that the representative Burnde will have a little surprise there, because not only has the Right Party and the Advance Party in the municipality of Os driven back many of the remarkable proposals promoted by the councillor, but also clear to implement the promises they have made, namely that the older citizens of the municipality who want to do so should be able to travel abroad on treatment trips. It is not that we open the wallet without considering the consequences it will have for the Norwegian economy. Of course, if action is taken without considering the relationship between supply and demand, it can quickly go wrong. But in our alternative approach, we have placed great emphasis on the supply side of the economy, on how to take action, reform, measures in the economy in the short and long term to make it work better. But it is not that it must always be the state to implement, govern, control, own in order for everything to work and go well. You can do this by at least having little confidence that business and ordinary people are able to manage their own money better than the government is doing on our behalf.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e450	I am not so sure that the Progress Party needs the help of Børge Burnde to stab the knife in a difficult situation, as Siv Jensen said. It will be interesting to see the draft budget that Terje Søviknes will present in the municipality of Os tomorrow. It is to hope that the party leadership in the Progress Party will be able to secure the rapporteur in Us a great place in the next period, so perhaps he will not be with us and take responsibility in the last half of the period, for the sale of holdings that finance south-easts, for cuts in areas that will cause the population of Us to suffer in the long term. It is not difficult to meet the electoral commitments of one year and two years, but it is going to be worse in the long term with the policies set up in the municipality of Us, which the Progress Party also stands for in its alternative state budget. More is promised to the vast majority. You promise to spend more oil money. Tax relief is promised, especially to those who have the most from the past. They promise four-field motorways in Sweden, while promising to cut $4 billion in u-help for the poorest countries. You promise to cut billions of dollars in the health insurance scheme, while giving large tax credits to those who have the most of them. You add up to a dramatic redistribution of municipalities, a dramatic redistribution. The grants to the smallest municipalities are cut and at the same time introduce a metropolitan supplement to go to the largest municipalities. You cut the North Norway premium. You cut the transfers to Post, which will lead to an even worse postal offer in District Norway in particular. You cut the agricultural transfers by $4 billion. The proposal is for transferable quotas in the fishing industry – just to mention some examples of what is in the alternative budget of the Progress Party, which will give us a totally different society from what we have today. It is not difficult to promise tax relief to anyone and to promise to spend more oil money for one year when, on the other hand, there is as much redistribution as the Advance Party adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e459	The representative of Enoxsen must decide which powder to use. It is not that we both promise more to everyone and at the same time make significant cuts and cuts. Either the criticism from the representative Enoch must be that we promise everything to everyone and thus have no cuts and cuts, otherwise the criticism must be that we have cuts and cuts that Odd Roger Enoxen disagrees with. The profile of the Progress Party's alternative budget is precisely that we have chosen some areas of activity that we believe need to be lifted, which have not been adequately cared for and cared for by politicians in recent years, and which have resulted in a bad situation, unfortunately. If the representative of Enoxsen had been equally concerned with District Norway as the Progress Party is, he had ensured through the budget work that more money was allocated to road construction, so that the companies in the districts were helped to reduce transport costs, so that they got their goods faster to the markets and had their costs reduced. I have not registered that was an important task for the centre of budgetary negotiations. Many of the tax proposals that have been pushed through by the central parties in this budgetary agreement result in the fact that the companies in the district of Norway are being hit. Then it's not up to believers to try to imagine the population that you're so very district friendly, when you do exactly the opposite. It's not like something's going to be right just because you repeat it many times enough. It is the act that counts, and we want to implement a completely different policy than what we now see in the agreement between the centre and the Workers' Party, which in reality leads to everyone getting a little bit worse, and the state getting a lot richer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e466	One of my favorite quotes sounds like this, and it's from Peter N. Myhre, who said in 1989: ‘I find that in five to ten years’ time no one is talking about the greenhouse effect or the holes in the ozone layer. The left side, especially in Norwegian policy, has always tried to find things that lie outside the world of reality. Since the late 1970s, these have been combined, the homophiles, the nuclear weapons and now the greenhouse effect/ozonholes.» This curious statement should have one perhaps believed had been put dead and powerless since it is now about ten years later. Then we notice that in the financial situation today, the Progress Party is still denying that the greenhouse effect can be man-made. You write: ‘These members, like a number of researchers, are skeptical about this and note that there is a great deal of disagreement among researchers about the extent to which they may be relevant’ – i.e. the human-made climate emissions – ‘have a bearing on the climate’. It is sad to note that the Progress Party still does not understand the large part of the world. The collapse in The Hague is a major setback for the whole world, in fact. But what is recorded in the policy of the Progress Party is that it is still said that this does not matter. It is now the case that climate change also affects the Progress Party, as well as the voters of the Progress Party, including truck owners and truck drivers and others, who have pressed for the Progress Party, among others. in the case of any relief likely to affect the climate. So you're going to go for lower fuel charges, you're going for more road construction, no public transport appropriations, just to mention something. The question is then to the Progress Party: Is it so that the Progress Party still stubbornly denies the link between climate problems, storms and floods and the man-made climate emissions? Is it so that you still believe in a few scientists from the American oil industry at Climate Coalition, or what they call it, who have been paid by a lobby organization to prevent you from reaching an agreement in The Hague? Or is it actually that the Progress Party at this point may see the need to nuance its position a little bit, and that the curious statement from Peder N. Myhre from 1989, perhaps for once to be put dead and powerless? Because as I understand it, I guess Peder N. Myhre is one of the few that are still not raised out of the Oslo Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e485	The president assumes that Peter is the correct first name.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e488	That's a good option, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e493	It was a very curious line, which could be tempting to give a curative answer. I think it is important to discuss climate and environmental issues, that we are also willing to recognise that this is a global issue that needs to be resolved globally. If you get involved in the Norwegian debate on, for example. building or not building gas power plants, one deliberately tries to pretend that this should only be an isolated phenomenon or an isolated problem for Norway, knowing that if we had taken advantage of our relatively environmentally friendly forms of production, we could have helped to reduce emissions from polluting power plants in other countries in Europe. So we continue to have a debate, as if these are emissions that are only going in and out of Norway. I think that is wrong. Nor is it true that when you want a more car-friendly policy in this country, it is because you want to put the environment over control. On the contrary, our proposals, especially on car charges, will help us get a more environmentally friendly car park that emits less than today's car park does. In fact, it should be in line with SV's intentions to facilitate the most environmentally friendly behaviour. But we do not believe that it is possible to drive the car back. When you look at the significant share of today's traffic that happens precisely by means of a car, the means we use to reduce emissions should be both that the cars were more environmentally friendly, and that we got less queues and cork problems, which are also very polluting, by having roads that could take this off and make traffic slip better. I have not registered that SV is willing to spend money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e502	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e505	The budget negotiations in the fall were difficult, but they led. Although the government's proposal was far from our point of view, we chose to take responsibility for giving the country a budget. The result we are seeing today. The big mover is a fact. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Left, has made changes in the budgetary agreement with the Government, which amount to nearly NOK 22 billion, whatever the leader of the Finance Committee claims. So this shows that the center part is strong. At the same time, the budget for this year has been given a clear centre profile. Before I bring up the conciliation itself, it is necessary to specify which one of the starting points of the Christian People's Party had. With this, I am thinking in particular of the Stoltenberg government's budget presented with a tax and tax allowance of NOK 12 billion. This increase was directly related to business. The cyclical tax and the dividend tax together showed a total of 9.3 billion kroner and 1.7 billion kroner in the value accruals, i.e. an annual impact. Not to mention the removal of the share discount and the contractions in the split model. We are against this, not to help the rich, but to secure the jobs. The proposal for a tax increase would lead to a sharp deterioration in the business environment. Given that we need a value-creating business, we couldn't accept this. The tax incentives proposed by the Stoltenberg Government were very anti-business. Yes, it may have been good for internal use before the Labour Party, but they had to know that they could not get support from Stortinget. In order to secure jobs and innovation, we had to get a completely different device on the tax side. At the same time, we had to raise other areas such as health, voluntary Norway, culture, culture, culture, and districts. The challenges were therefore greater than we had in mind in the past. We haven't gotten a pass on all of our requirements. We also have to defend changes that we really didn't want. But we are, in spite of that, overestimated that it was better to get multiples for some important changes than to demonstrate the distance between us and the workers' party government in such a way that it would lead our country into a crisis. The Christian People's Party would like to be in the government position again, but we prefer to see such government changes happen by choice rather than by randomly selected crisis situations. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the negotiated budget takes care of the objectives of economic policy rather than the Government's proposal. The budget agreement has been thoroughly worked out, and the balance is so-called neutral. This means that we're not pursuing a policy of expansion. This is very important for others. interest rate developments. In view of everyone with housing loans and student loans, this is something we must follow closely. However, it may be worth noting that it is necessary to assess the use of some extra money in sectors with free capacity. In this way, we can free up resources and make better use of the resources we have. The budget agreement provides a better situation for enterprises and jobs and a stronger distribution profile. On the basis of the submitted budget of the Workers' Party Government, with a large tax and tax levy, I am satisfied with what the Christian People's Party, together with the Cent Party and the Left, has achieved. The Labour Party will probably highlight what's equal between us. But for us, it's also important to focus on what matters – in spite of the agreement. This applies not least in areas such as voluntary sector, culture, business, environment and districts. When it comes to the Right and the Advance Party, they will also try to get us to stick to the Workers' Party to get better into the light. The comments from the right side of the equation indicate that. But what really happened? For the first time, the Right birth helper was a Stoltenberg government, so they disclaimed all responsibility. Their alternative budget is proof that they will not take responsibility or propose constructive solutions. The budget they have submitted is pure right-wing policy in form, but with a way of financing it all, which shows that they are not interested in getting into a situation where it could be relevant to take a roof and get multiples for a budget. They've cut the sickle bean, so it's Mons, or nearly $6 billion, without taking care of the presented coming in the middle of a tariff period. The Christian People's Party also wants to do something with the sick pay, but now it's most likely and wisest to wait for the follow-up of the Sandman selection. In addition, Right cuts $2.5 billion in transfers to the poorest in the world – to give it to the richest in Norway. At least it's not solidarity. I only mention these two entries in the Right's budget to illustrate how far they are from us and others. The lynchcuts for a collaboration with the Workers' Party, and the aid for cooperation with the Christian People's Party. The Progress Party's alternative budget goes even further in most cases, and they shut themselves out of cooperation. In addition, the cork Right, the Advance Party or the Workers' Party hide that they want to cooperate in government with the Christian People's Party. The conclusion is therefore clear: in today's situation, Bondevik and the Christian People's Party are freed by everyone, because we have solutions that embrace both the Labour Party on one side and the Right and the Advance Party on the other, a place that has made many people demand that we choose sides. The term "block-independent" has been used by many people. But the truth is that the Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party and the Left, embraces the broadest, and is with that position the natural government alternative in today's political image. The Christian People's Party wants to be a party that takes care of our workplaces and that facilitates new ones. Therefore, we had to demand major changes and drive back the most anti-business proposals that the Government came up with. For the first time, the investment levy shall be removed from 1 January 2002. It gives jobs and districts $6 billion in fees. Removal of the investment fee of 7 pst. will be important for the workplace. The investment fees are fragmented, frames randomly and have large collection costs. This is also an important step in the direction of a simpler Norway. Secondly, the economic cost should also be removed. This would have had a direct impact on the competitiveness of employment in private and voluntary Norway. Quite rightly, we have introduced a business cycle fee of 10 pst. in industry, which is targeted at reducing the pressure in an industry with a high labour shortage. This fee is not so different from the one we proposed a few years ago. We also opposed the changes proposed in the 2001 split model. The stock discount and the 80 pst rule we're holding. So we're preventing a tax tightening for the vast majority of small businesses in Norway. Furthermore, the removal of taxes on wealth on economic assets is not currently being implemented. The government's follow-up to the decision from in ours was too bad. We'll get the property tax back to later. Taxes on dividends are reduced from 14 pst. to 11 pst. and get a base deduction of NOK 10000. This will be replaced from 2002 onwards with a system that does not tax savings in enterprises rather than other forms of saving. The electricity charge is increased by 1 cent from our side. Households will be affected by this, but not worse than one with an increment measure and an increase in the focus on the environment. It is also worth noting that through the agreement, we gained a positive impact not to increase the electricity charge to the process industry. We set up the levy better, so that it is stimulated for energy savings in clean administrative buildings in industry. Administrative buildings are thus treated in the same way as households, while value-creating pre-industrial activities still receive a tax advantage. In this way, we have helped to achieve important environmental policy objectives. Furthermore, we have had an impact on a thorough review of the tax system, where today's sharing model is to be removed. I believe that, through a debate here on the Stortinget on concrete solutions, we can achieve a good tax reform. These changes are due to be delayed with the 2002 state budget. The Christian People's Party, together with the Cent Party and the Left, has also been given a VAT reform with a completely different profile from that of the Government. We're getting half the VAT on food, down to 12 pst., which is a good countermeasure and gets a lot to say for the food budget to most people. Reduced food tax is primarily an advantage for low-income households and families with children. If this turns out to be an increase in demand for Norwegian-produced food, it will of course also be positive for our agricultural industry. A reduction in VAT on foodstuffs can also have positive consequences for border trade. The proposal on VAT on transport is very poor environmental policy and would have increased public transport costs. On the contrary, the Christian People's Party will give public transport a boost through increased licensing as well as exemption from VAT. The government’s proposal for a government budget was a strong down-priority of the voluntary sector. When the Government does not give priority to important social inclusion and untidy work, it testifies to a simplified belief that the public will solve all tasks. In addition, there is a lack of understanding of the modern Norwegian community. The Christian People's Party has increased the promise to different types of organisations, as well as to children's and youth organisations and environmental organisations as well as to other stakeholder organisations. The Christian People's Party has also had an impact on measures that stimulate cultural activities throughout the country. I have also noticed that Minister of Culture Ellen Horn hopes that our proposals for improvements will be implemented in the negotiations, which they at least almost completely got. I hope that the whole cultural sector remembers these improvements. In the Bondevik government budget agreement with the Labour Party last year, there was a strong cut in the cultural sector. This year we were able to do the opposite, simply a reinforcement. A nation that does not give priority to culture and the voluntary sector will soon become a poor nation. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to pursue an environmental policy for sustainable development based on the precautionary principle. We also believe that the foreman must pay. It's worth acting environmentally friendly. In order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it is necessary to focus on both energy savings, alternative renewable energy sources, new technologies and better public transport. The transport sector is the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. The Christian People's Party has been closed in strengthening efforts to get more people to travel collectively. The Bondevik government has given priority to the 2.5 years we have spent in government, especially family policy, with a strong commitment to greater freedom of choice for families with children and an offensive child-care effort through the nursery service, which today's government adopted. We also focus on health policies with many major action plans, including: within psychiatry, cancer care and the purchase of new hospital equipment. What was the lucky thing for us was school and research. For this reason, it was important for us to give priority to this area in budgetary negotiations. The Christian People's Party's priorities are as follows: power ceilings for research and higher education skills in the school quality lift for the youth school The government has provided the worst budget for higher education and basic research for a very long time, especially for universities. The Centre Party holds the promise of strengthening research efforts and the quality of higher education. With the budget agreement, there is room for better provision for students, strengthening basic research and creating more recruitment options for young researchers. We also strengthen the Research Fund and the commitment to industrial research. So we take the first step on the road to get Norway up from the bottom to the average level of OECD countries in research efforts over five years. The government's systematic cut-off proposal and the lack of pay compensation for private schools, public schools and private colleges would have led to a poorer and less lacking educational system. Therefore, the Christian People's Party prioritises to drive back such cuts. The Bondevik government adopted a Youth Action Package to ensure educational development and adapt training. Next year's permits will be increased by 25 million. kr, in such a way that several bowls are secured. So the Christian People's Party, together with the Central Party and the Left, has chosen to be constructive in the budgetary negotiations, which we have been at several times before. We could have demonstrated against the Labour Party and their way of taking power from us in March. The Labour Party demonstrated itself for two years after they voluntarily gave up power. We did not go on a voluntary basis, on the contrary. But we still have a responsibility to get a budget adopted. On the other hand, we have no responsibility for this government, something that was given to the Right when they took part in the change of government in ours. The right-hand side is now depriving itself of this responsibility. They are really the party that has failed. First, they help the Workers' Party of Power, so they don't do anything to make them work with which to live. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to be responsible, both in position and opposition. That's why we went into negotiations, so we went a long way, so we were also faced with important changes. But the Christian People's Party takes responsibility. The center has also shown that they take responsibility. As we in the autumn displayed a willingness to discharge the budget, so we will move forward towards the decision-making process, including our willingness to take government responsibility, because, in fact, it is and will be the centre of the government option that is most realistic towards the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e578	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e581	Both in posts, in press releases and in press releases on the state budget, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have placed great emphasis on their power, and that they have taken responsibility for the treatment of the state budget by the Stortinget. I don't think so many people are surprised. Most people will probably find it quite natural and have difficulty seeing that taking responsibility should be something special for political work here in Stortinget. In that context, I want to find it natural to remember that power has just a Siamese twin called responsibility. It means taking part in power, so also take part in the responsibility that comes with it. I don't think there are as many people actually are surprised at that. For the Workers' Party, this is at least natural, and it also becomes natural for us to use the power and take responsibility for a fairer distribution, greater commitment to welfare arrangements and greater security for income and the economy of the individual. Now, when the centre party uses the power to assume partial responsibility for supporting the Workers' Party's named bet area, it's naturally based on the values of the Christian People's Party and Center. The second thing we have highlighted in recent times, including here in the debate, is that it has moved so much in the government's draft budget. Can the representative of Svarstad Haugland confirm that in the draft budget of the Workers' Party, when the expenditure side is involved, it has moved to SEK 1.5 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e589	The question that Kaldhol asked me, if I could confirm that it had moved on to approx. One and a half billion kroner on the expenditure side, I can of course answer yes. But we heard quite a lot of times that now one has moved so much on the revenue side of the budget, that now it got to not move so much on the expenditure side. I have a feeling that the Labour Party in this room today has a little bit of difficulty swallowing that one in fact has moved almost $22 billion, and then one comes back and kind of tries to mitigate the effects of these 22 billion. But I think everyone who reads the budget and sees what happened will see what we've got, and then I have to honestly admit that I think it's very good that we've managed to move so many dollars. We have focused on actions that are important. Some measures we have added to small amounts – but you are as important to those who get the money. I will mention the cultural sector, the voluntary sector – many organisations would have been pinched and some of them would have been cut off if the Labour Party had adopted its draft budget. We got a strong signal on that. Not all of these amounts are equal, but they are still very important for voluntary Norway. I would also like to mention the environmental sector, where we have made changes – we would like to think of major changes. We could also think of several changes, but still there are important individual changes in order to get to a better environment. When it comes to schooling, education and research, as I mentioned in my post, the principals at the universities of Norway today say that this is the worst budget they've ever been presented to themselves. The director of the University of Bergen also said that about the budget. Now, at least they've got a much better budget to manage, and I'm glad that we've managed to get multiples for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e596	I am not going to use this line to specify that the Statistical Central Bureau has actually calculated that the overall arrangement of the Advance Party, not just the municipal structure, would give the municipalities NOK 4.5 billion more to route than what has been the result of the negotiations, although it may seem necessary to remind someone that an account actually has both an income and an expense page. What I'm going to ask about also has something to do with the municipalities. The VAT compensation scheme allows municipalities to purchase services from private individuals. It's an important system, at least in my opinion, if we're going to get a competitive outsourcing of some municipal services to enable municipalities to save money. And it's not just for municipalities to be able to save money, because it does the municipalities through such a scheme, but it's also in order to be able to provide better and more services to their citizens. The point is that in the past the Christian People's Party has been to expand this system. It now applies in very limited areas, such as laundry of textiles and in the case of construction, but there are very many areas where it does not apply, and it is more topical than ever when VAT is to be increased and when the VAT base is also to be extended. So there will be a lot more services. When the case was last raised, in connection with a Document No. Eight proposals from Erna Solberg from the Right, the Christian People's Party chose not to participate in the debate, but they therefore voted against such an extension, which they had previously been in favour of. Now the Christian People's Party is in opposition again, and my question is: What does the Christian People's Party mean today – they stand at their former position, or do they have the position they had in their time in government? Could the Christian People's Party intend to support the proposal to extend the scheme, possibly making this scheme general?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e607	Now I had the impression that Per Erik Monsen used the line for me to grab the previous line round. I'm not going to interfere in the Statistical Central Bureau's calculations regarding the Progress Party's alternative budget, but I want to say that I believe that in the long term the consequences would be quite tragic for many of us if their policies were to be implemented – if it hadn't been so negative for the first year, one could in the long run have changes that I think many of us would be negative for the development. When it comes to the question I received from the representative Monsen, I would like to point out one of the points of the agreement between the centre party and the government, where we are asking the Government of the revised national budget in 2001 to come back with a closer assessment of the effects of VAT reform on the relationship between services performed by its own members and the purchase of services. We have also asked them specifically to look at the voluntary organisations, which have to be evaluated in that context. It's because we see that there may be unfortunate relationships with the problem that the Monsen pointed to. Therefore, we have got this point so that we can look at these effects in the revised national budget. As Per Erik Monsen knows, VAT reform must be introduced from 1 July, and we have the time and possibly the chance to make certain changes if one looks at such unfortunate circumstances that we want to rectify.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e614	If it's the case that Svarstad Haugland still believes that the government of Bondevik had to leave, there's a lot of evidence to suggest that it went off by a mere misunderstanding. Of course, there was nothing wrong with it being able to continue by taking into account the view of the majority of the population, but it did not choose to do so and thus went off – at most voluntarily. The budget currently under consideration has the highest tax increases in human memory, suggesting that the majority of the population believe that Norway can be a different tax policy country. The centre has accepted these record increases, but has wanted to distribute the increases differently from what the workers' party government wanted. It is therefore not so bad for business as after the Workers' Party's proposal, but still worse than in the current year. In return, the individual has received a greater burden than the Workers' Party provided, and this is obviously disappointing. But there is light in the dark, and this light appeared in VG 23 November, where Reply City Haugland – as it says in the title – ‘promises you treasures’, when Reply City Haugland promises tax relief to ordinary people. There's a lot of questions going on. One is: what credibility will such a promise have, considering that it was the center that brought greater stress on individuals next year, and considering the fact that an uncovered bill of DKK 10 billion is now being pushed into 2002? The second question is: Is Answerstad Haugland so sure that the Workers' Party is the natural partner to bring the tax down? I would like to remind you that Reply City Haugland has been a guest in the programme ‘Breaking promises’. I hope she does not aim to be a permanent guest in that program.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e624	To the last greeting from Jan Petersen: I believe that if everyone were to defend some of the things that were said in election campaigns, which they have not been able to accomplish, but still stand for and believe, Jan Petersen and others here in the hall would be able to participate in both the “Break promises” and other programs. That's the situation, and that's probably how the situation is too. It is true that the centre has accepted large tax reductions, but we have managed to drive back as much as possible. At least we've managed to get a profile of what makes business not doll. That was the most important thing for us. I've been looking at the right in their alternative budget, and I have to honestly say that they're not particularly tempted: $6 billion to the sickness fund, which one knows you can't get in next year. I think Right also knows that, but it says there, black on white. $2.5 billion from the world's poorest shall be spent on the right in the kingdom of Norway. $2.5 billion is an incredible amount of money, because they can reach you through the aid budget. And they'll explain why: they think that the money doesn't go where they're going. But then we'll probably see where the money is going, so we'll get a good approach to our assistance. At least Norway can't afford to cut the aid, then we almost lose our soul. So strong will I take in. VG has a heading that says I promise tax laws. It gets VG to do it on its own. What I've said, and I promise to work for, is that we'll get a new tax model, a tax reform, next year. I also hope that the Right constructive debate will go in and join in. We want to get rid of today's divisional model, and then we have to get an approximation of taxes on labour and taxes on capital. I believe that the distribution effect of such a model will lead to a fairer distribution. In fact, some of the capitalists can afford to pay something more into the common fund. But taxes on work should be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e637	The President would point out that even in a financial debate it is not possible to negotiate for VAT supplements at the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e640	After hearing the introduction, you can wonder if there are areas in which the Christian People's Party has not had an impact on its policy. 22 billion kr represents the large removal yacht. It is important to remember that the large loss of income will not be seen until 2002. Then we will have a loss of income of approx. 10 billion dollars, and that's when it's going to be problematic to balance a budget. The result in the education sector of this removal seal is reasonably clear. There's a stake in private institutions, private schools and private colleges. That's where it's been put, it's the ones that have become the budget winners in the education sector. This occurs at the same time as the public education institutions, primary and secondary schools have, overall, received a reduction in the earmarked appropriations. So when you see primary and secondary schools together, there's a reduction in the appropriations for these, while private primary and secondary schools and colleges have gained a fairly strong growth. For example, it's 10 pst. growth in private schools in relation to the budget of the Workers' Party, i.e. a weakening of the public education system. Is this the center's policy? Is this what is good Christian People's Party policy: weakening the public education system? For approx. Six months ago, we dealt with a research report where we had ambitious goals. There was a research report submitted by a Christian People's Party Council. In many ways it was a good research report, and it got better after we dealt with it in Stortinget. And we had ambitious goals: we're going up to the average OECD level. The Christian People's Party agreed. There is some increase in the allocation of the university sector, but nothing specific to the research sector. Does Valgerd Reply City Haugland feel that we are now moving towards this goal? And are we going to do this in five years, which was the ambitions when we dealt with the research report?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e656	Like the other replicator today from SV, the representative Rikvam is concerned about the growth in expenditure that we get with the 2000 budget. It's nice to listen to worried statements from SV when it comes to the growth of the budget. When looking at the impact of SV's alternative budget, I'm not particularly sure when it comes to how they thought it would turn out, cork in one way or another, for the Norwegian economy. And when the representative owes the Christian People's Party not to bet on the school sector in this budget deal, he's totally wrong. Obviously, we've added something to the private schools, both to the public schools and to the high schools. Why in all the world have we done this? Well, of course it's because it's where the Labour Party has cut most. We had to add the most to it to fix the failures that the Labour Party has done. Because we want to have an offensive bet on the school, and then we include both the private public schools, the private colleges and our private schools. We had to fix the failed Workers' Party, so we had to add to those budget lines. In addition, we have invested more in research. Half a billion more dollars will be added to the Research Fund. The Center Party might have thought of adding even more to the Research Fund, but at least we're willing to build it up, so that we can get up to a better level when it comes to research, too, in Norway. In addition, we have shifted the budget so that we have almost half a billion more to the school sector overall than the Labour Party has proposed. One might say this: we've got more than SV with its alternative budget, because there won't be any multiples for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e665	When the central parties were in government, they were very concerned that they were an independent center option, that they could cooperate with both the right and left sides of Norwegian policy. Over the last three years, they have gained experience in what it means to cooperate with different parties. I have to say that I'm getting a little curious, because it's like one of the partners is better suited for the Christian People's Party than the others? I perceive in the representative of Svarstad Haugland's post a tiny kick to the Right. But leave it alone, and tell me which budget mate Christian People's Party is most satisfied with. If Valgerd Reply City Haugland doesn't want to answer that, maybe she can tell me what budget she thinks has given the best welfare for most people. Is that the budget on which they have cooperated with the Right and the Progress Party, or is it perhaps the budget on which they have worked with the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e670	I have to say, this was a troubling question. Yes, we have a government seat for two and a half years, and we had alternating pluralities with different parties. I am aware that I have given a kick to the Right in my post, but I would like to stress that when it comes to bet on the voluntary sector, when it comes to some value issues, when it comes to bet on business – bet on these areas that I have mentioned – is actually the right party that met us the most. And if you look at their alternative budget, they have strengths both in relation to the voluntary sector, the organizations, in relation to the private spheres and in relation to business, to which I can say yes. But then they had a terrible discovery. The labor party also had additions that I could say yes to, but they also had a discovery that we didn't like, so we made so much changes. Of course, the best budget is what we put forward ourselves, and we have done that three times – once we had to change a working party budget, and twice we put our own budget. Of course, these are the best budgets with the best distribution from our point of view. The Center Party and the Christian People's Party have easier to control in a minority government because we can find alternating multiples with the right and left sides of Norwegian politics. What happened to the Labour Party when they presented their budget this year? They had a place to go, and what we could have done if we had wanted to, was create a crisis. We could have said that we didn't want to go into this, we don't have anything to negotiate with the Labour Party, they're themselves going to try to figure out multiple numbers with the Right, that get them into government. But that wasn't the way for the Workers' Party to go. They went to us, we took responsibility, and we got a budget settlement. But we have also experienced good budgetary conciliation with the Right and the Progress Party. I don't want to hide that in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e682	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e685	Lack of predictability is what we hear most often as criticism of politicians from working business. There is a competitive, increasingly international – not to say global – economy, and all countries are currently participating in a competition to attract jobs. Norway is not part of it, rather on the contrary: many people experience it quite differently. It is no wonder that this happens when you hear the analyses that the representatives of the Government Party give us from this pulpit. They say that companies that earn well are companies that have to be taxed even more heavily. You actually get the idea that companies that earn so much that they almost reach an international level, that is, in line with their competitors, have to be punished with higher taxes. The tax reform that a broad majority agreed to defend at the beginning of the 1990s and that representatives of the Workers' Party should then be assured of on the basis of long-termity, predictability, is a reform which almost no longer defends, and which is constantly undermined by new and surprising advances. The last one was about dividend taxation, a move that the government has actually made through almost unchanged, even with the settlement parties. An attempt is being made to launch this as if it were an attempt to close a gap in the tax law in Norway, but the interesting thing is that Norway is actually among the countries with the highest share tax in Europe, yes, we are the country with the second highest share tax. We're just being beaten by the Swedes, and the Swedes are going down in several areas, so we can take gold there if we want. And it's clear that that's what the majority now wants. Even the majority of the Board of Governors of Norway warns against this proposal, in very strong order of the Bank of Norway. This majority also includes former finance minister from the Workers' Party, Sigbjørn Johnsen, now a member of the Governing Board. The Board of Governors of the Bank of Norway points out, inter alia: that this would weaken the equity base of Norwegian enterprises, and nobody can actually earn it. Instead of listening to boasts from those who are not part of Norwegian business, i.e. politicians most, it may be interesting to hear what descriptions those who are actually in the investor environment have of investing in Norway. I will probably wake myself up to bring out the names of the leaders that I understand that the leader of the Workers' Party thinks is both late and what is worse. I'm going to bring forward someone who has spoken in today's newspaper, and who actually represents a semi-stated company – one of the companies that we talked a lot about in this room a few years ago – namely, the manager of what is now called the START fund, which is therefore an investment company based on 50 pst. State capital via SND and 50 pst. private capital. In today’s Evening Post, just a representative of this part of the investor environment expresses the following: ‘Foreign investors are very sceptical about investing in Norway.’ In addition, it says: ‘Foreign investors do not need to open their wallet for companies that do not have the possibility to move out of Norway.’ And there is a reason why: One is afraid to establish itself in Norway because of the unforeseeableness of the tax system and the danger of being locked up with large tax bills in a country where one cannot build on a safe and predictable basis. It's actually quite interesting to see that many of the protests we now get about the tax rules proposed by the majority come from representatives of companies that we have set up to invest with state resources. One of the many letters of protest we have received against the government's tax proposal came from the company Norsk Vekst A/S, a company like this big business in the early 1990s set up by state funds to supplement private capital on the investment side. What they are now complaining about is, in fact, the framework conditions – just as the Right has always said: it is the framework conditions that make it difficult to invest in Norway, not the lack of state capital. I used to be in a line of analysis on the basis of the government's budgetary documents, namely that the main pressure factor in the Norwegian economy is the lack of capacity. We can do something about lack of capacity in two ways. You can slim down, streamline, rationalise, modernise – you can choose what expression you want – the public sector in Norway, which is large, very large. The public sector is not exposed to competition in general and is therefore not under pressure to increase the productivity of the private sector. That is why we are responsible for creating such a market-like framework for the public sector as well. The government's proposals do not contain any such proposals. The problem is thus identified – ‘looks at it’, as it is called in political jargon – and does nothing more about it. The second main factor lies in the lack of labour. Also here the government departs from the necessary, but, I admit, unpopular measures. It is not difficult to point out that it will be unpopular to limit a very favourable AFP scheme. In that area, the Right was probably among the very foresight that when the scheme was more or less imposed on the Stortinget, it said it was unsustainable, that it would eventually get an expansion that would make it impossible to carry it financially. We got it right. Not that, but because the scheme is now expensive, one has to do something with both that and the fact that thousands of annual works disappear each year because of sick leave or because of disability. There are many who represent the labour force, around and are totally dissatisfied, many who could be in part-time today, at least, being part of Norwegian working life. And we need them. I will not use time here to touch on the theme of increasing labour force in Norway by more simplified and liberalised labour migration. There the agreement contains a little glimpse of the hope that the Workers' Party will begin to soften its bastant resistance, but as usual it is little concrete, and it is too late. It comes later than it does in any comparable country. Structural reforms are therefore lacking. That is one of the reasons why, unfortunately, we cannot use more oil revenue — or more money at all — in the economy today to get more done. The agreement is a little less bad for businesses, but worse for consumers. The economic cycle tax is not adopted, but is moved to other areas that, for the bottom line of the enterprises, mean about the same. The greatest gain in industry is given to the only industry that does not have international competition at all, namely agriculture. The peasant team should be congratulated on this year's absolute lobby price. This is an old bonding requirement – understandable, from the industry’s point of view, but it only exposes a necessary conversion to the price that the industry must be subject to in all circumstances. What's sad about the arrangement is that consumers take the noise anyway. More VAT will be levied next year than this year, no matter how you turn it around. And on top of it all comes house taxes, electricity taxes, etc., which have no reasonable, fair distribution effect, but which affects everyone. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party has spent a lot of time accusing Right that we have not presented an alternative budget that is a cooperative approach to other parties. You can accuse us too much, but what's been presented is now once our arrangement, it's not an arrangement that's negotiated with others. Unlike the center, we have our own setup. I can therefore hardly attack back, other than talking about the conciliation itself, which I now assume is center policy. That's a good idea. Nor is it so easy to get an overview of where the centre is at all times: here I am moving towards a tax – profit tax – with good arguments from former Minister of Finance Restad in letters to the Finance Committee of Storting as late as 1998. And now the center goes into it for what they last went towards. We are moving towards increased taxes on housing in our arrangement. In a statement by the representative Bondevik, who was as late as a couple of weeks before the budget came, he said that he did not expect so much of the budget, but that at least one thing they did not have to do, and that was to increase the housing tax. So we're going to go against it. The Christian People's Party does the opposite -- they increase the housing tax, which they warned against increasing. I therefore hope for some understanding that it is not always as easy to deal with expectations of what the Christian People's Party is going to do. It's true that we've cut development aid, an amount that means that next year's development aid will be below NOK 10 billion, not above NOK 12 billion. I think it is to live with, in particular given that we are also equipping our proposal with a scheme to allow free imports from the poorest developing countries to the countries to which they can sell, including Norway. However, when we are also accused of promoting a sick pay proposal, I am getting a bit more in the mood, because it is, after all, a part of what is also the Christian People's Party's programme. Not only does it benefit to go into its programme, but it also has to be proposed in Stortinget. The right has done what the Christian People's Party has called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e729	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e732	When one hears the representative Foss talk about the level of taxation in Norway, one would think that the Norwegian level of taxation is completely different from the countries around us – it is produced like this. But that's not it. If we look at the share of total gross national income in taxes, we're not particularly high. In fact, we are below the countries around us, as far as the EU average, which is 41.9 p.m. In Norway it is 41.8 pst., while in Sweden it is 52 pst., in Denmark it is 50 pst. etc. If we look at the corporate tax, we have the same ratio. There is no particularly high level of taxation in Norway on enterprises. We are all aware that the employer’s fee in Sweden, for example: is significantly higher than in Norway — yes, in fact, if we were to have as high taxes as they do in Sweden, we had to significantly increase the level of taxation in Norway. It would then be a bit strange to hear the representative Foss present it as if Norwegian companies have reason to travel from Norway, if they could travel to a country that has, for example, dividends tax higher than that currently adopted in this country. In particular, it is nice to hear this at the same time as we hear where the Right will cut: the Health Pay Scheme, the School Leisure Scheme, labour market measures. They will cut off from those who have the most difficult access to the labour market – not from Aetat, as the representative Jensen answered when I asked for labour market measures. No, the measures for those with the most difficulty in relation to the labour market are going to cut to the right. And let me ask the representative Foss: is it not unreasonable that e.g. a female industrial worker with average sickness absence shall pay NOK 4300 per year, if the Right Order is implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e737	With regard to the comparison of the level of taxation in Norway with the level of taxation in other countries, it has always been common in previous budgetary documents that the Government has based the comparison on mainland Norway’s gross domestic product and has not included the whole oil sector. It makes us incomparable with other countries, which have no equivalent. This is the first time such a comparison is not made in the budget documents. I understand that, because if one had included such a statistic, which was in previous documents, it would have shown that we are getting very high in terms of the tax level, if the comparison is based on mainland Norway's GDP. I have not recommended any companies to leave the country. I have neither competence nor willingness to do so. What I did was quote from what company representatives themselves say about being in Norway compared to other countries. Representatives of those investing in the IT industry say that one of the reasons for reaching this level, for example: increasingly moving to Stockholm and Copenhagen, they have better option taxation with the eyes of businesses than Norway has. It's what this vast majority of people, knowingly and willfully, have come in for, so it's no surprise that you want to keep it like this. In the mid-1990s, Internet companies actually flourished in Norway – now they flourish in Stockholm. To put it this way: I don't like the Swedes! I think we should keep the advantage of having something in Norway that grew, which was part of the new economy. We cut into labour market measures. Yes, including: because we believe it can be achieved more by dropping private actors into the industry, more than the majority of the population will. In fact, we also believe that the Public Employment Service must concentrate on the most difficult ‘distributable’ and not take general measures, as it has done for too long without good and demonstrable results. Our health pay scheme, just to answer briefly, does not mean that women – or men – are to be burdened with excesses of sick leave due to the illness of their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e746	The President will ask the representative Foss whether he intends to present the proposals for which the Right is the co-sponsor or is on his own.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e749	The ones we are alone in, and the ones we are co-sponsors of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e754	Per-Kristian Foss has then drawn up the proposals he mentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e757	The Progress Party and the Right agree that there is a need for tightening up the health pay system and, above all, to make it more profitable to work. Then, of course, it is particularly important, among other things. the introduction of working days so that short-term absences can be reduced. But in the arrangement of the Progress Party, we protect chronic sick and absenteeism as a result of sick children, and we respect collective agreements. Therefore, it was with some wonder that I studied the Right's proposal for a health pay scheme, because there has therefore been ignored the fact that there have been significant collective agreements – i.e. agreements between employers and employees, which I thought were respected by the Right. Then it is, I think, strange to see that the Right Medical Pay Scheme has chosen to ignore the fact that collective agreements have been concluded where there is also an agreement on sick pay. Why does the Right choose to ignore it in its sickness pay scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e762	We do that because – in order to achieve equal treatment for all workers – you need to have a law that intersects with collective agreements. If you do not want to achieve that some industries, enterprises, will agree on better arrangements that will allow you, for example, to: risking what we don't want, that servants get better arrangements than workers, to take an example. So either one of these things have to intersect. We may have arrangements in Norway of the kind they have in Sweden, that the law provides a refund of up to 80 pst., but tariff agreements allow for up to 90 pst., but not higher. So in Sweden, they're intersecting in a different way. The background for this is that the Swedes in their time moved down to 65 pst. Reimbursement in relation to salary, but has then moved up again. So there is also a system where the law regulates the validity of tariff agreements in this area in order to achieve equal treatment between workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e767	It is not surprising to hear that the representative Foss is dissatisfied with the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre. The representative Petersen was now somewhat more nuanced in his line to Valgerd Svarstad Haugland. But to the extent that there's been some line at the Right -- if we're now talking about the three years that have gone by since 1997 -- it seems that that line has gone to speak negatively about the center and the central party policy. What's amazing is that Right's dream is to work together with these parties. The representative Foss chooses to paint black, entirely in line with the tone Børge Burnde made in his chronicle in the World Times a few days ago, with the title «The Tax Increase of Times!». The article does not mention anything positive with a single sentence that it has moved for NOK 22 billion, and that the center through the conciliation helped to strengthen the businesses, among other things. by reimbursing the business cycle fee and removing the investment levy, both proposed by the Labour Party Government. It's actually only a little over two years since Per-Kristian Foss stated that he felt safer on economic policy if the Workers' Party rules, than if the Bondevik government rules. Then he was correctly put in place by Jan Petersen. Today, he makes the negative announcement that foreign investors are refusing to invest in Norway, but he does not mention the statements in one word, such as: comes from Per Terje Vold in PIL that the process industry is now looking forward to investments of DKK 14 billion in Norway. With regard to tax policy, we must be allowed to claim that the centre's device is more targeted than the Right. Those who have a backlog of Community expenditure are tax-adjusted and have to provide something more, while those with a low carrying capacity, both private and business, are protected. My question to Per-Kristian Foss is: Has he read Lars Roar Langslet's biography of Jon Lyng? There's a good recipe for cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e781	I've also read that biography, and as most of what Lars Roar Langslet has written, it's very well formulated and good. Well, we've got a lot of center without the Center Party. It's just to look around in Mr. Rise's own home country, Oslo. Then he'll see that it's essentially going pretty well. But it assumes that we can agree on the policy. I understand that you're sorry that we haven't drawn out the positive aspects of the deal. I tried to formulate it nuanced. I said it's a little less bad for the companies, but worse for the consumers. And if it's black paint, I'd like to have it recycled. I believe it is quite comprehensive and quite correct. It is true that the process industry did not pay an electricity tax for which the Left in particular had applied and for which the Workers' Party was included in its draft budget for some incomprehensible reason. I'm very happy about that. But it's not that you can say that things have improved in Norway because you get worse next year. Here one compares to the fact that the government's draft budget should be the reality, that is, what businesses have to pay, and everything that is made of changes to the deterioration in the situation there is presented as a major advance. It's mildly said to turn it a little bit on your head. That's when I think it makes sense to get in the real world to realize that next year, together with the taxpayers, Norwegian companies will pay NOK 11.8 billion more in taxes as a result of, among other things. The Christian People's Party's contribution to the settlement. I'm not happy about that, and it must be both fair and fair to express from a pulpit like this. It's not black-painting, it's actually describing the situation. We have tried to contribute to being with the Christian People's Party where possible. On any occasion where we can achieve a quarter of a win, half a win – I don't want to go any further – we should be able to join the Christian People's Party if proposals could provide some meaningful examples from its active time as a politician. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e794	The President will ask for the speaking time to be respected!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e797	Right will tighten the sick pay scheme. People have to pay property here, too. The party believes this is absolutely necessary to improve access to labour. Yes, but as far as we know, the vast majority of Norwegian workers put the job as far as they can. So an introduction of economic sanctions will hardly mobilise more labour; rather, the Right's proposal would annoy all those who are in their daily work, and create an angry mood because it signals distrust. Of course, a reduction in sick pay may, in some cases for private economic reasons, cause people to meet at work even if they feel unwell, and there are people who, for various reasons, are not fit for work. The questions of the representative Per-Kristian Foss are as follows: is it by increasing the pressure on such workers Right will better access to labour? Is there any realistic reason to believe that the introduction of the characteristics of the sickness scheme will be an incentive for the Norwegian economy? Shouldn't Right bet on positive motivation, for example. a good working environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e804	There are limits to – I get to use the expression, steal it from the representative Rise – black paint when describing the Norwegian health pay scheme with the modest restrictions proposed by the Right as financial penalties. So, it's a much better health pay scheme than in Sweden, not to mention the one Sweden had until a few years ago. We have Europe's best health pay system, and then we propose this system – certain peculiarities, but limited. Representative Dale asks the question: Will this not increase the pressure on – he used the term – such workers? I guess it's based on the idea that sick leave in Norway is particularly high because we have a high professional frequency, i.e. many people are involved in work. It's been a myth for a long time, but the Sandman Committee's report and the facts that are being presented actually reverses it. For it shows that it is not only the new employee groups that have arrived in recent years, which have a high level of absence, it is consistently for those who have been in the labour market too much, much longer than that, so it is in fact consistent that the absence in Norway is reasonably high. And that's probably the case with any system in a welfare state that what's free has a tendency to be a certain over-consumption of. So we actually believe that pros and pros will limit the tendency to over-cons. Experience from Sweden also points in the same direction. When Sweden had 65 pst at its lowest. reimbursement, drastically reducing sick leave. So, of course, something has gone up afterwards, but it's exactly related to what I'm saying now, that you improved the system and now you're up to 80 pst. Again — that is, worse than we have proposed, but much better than it was in Sweden in the past. So there's a relationship between the amount of benefits and the tendency to use the schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e813	Arne Garborg wrote in his time a glittering review of Hanna Winsnes' cookbook. Garborg wrote: ‘... you take... take...’, but no one says ‘where to take it from’. This criticism cannot affect the financial situation of the Right. When you make your tasty main right, with tax reliefs like the usual ingredient, you just say ‘where to take it from’. There are cuts in the sick pay system, which will hit those who are most ill in their working life, cuts in the means of assistance, affects the poorest in the world's society, cuts in the school leisure system, who are likely to hit those children most in need of school leisure arrangements most in their development, and cuts in labour market measures, which are the tailor-made and targeted instrument to get them to work that needs the most help to get into work. So the right-hand side says, "where to take it from." Now I'm sure Per-Kristian Foss also remembers who Hanna Winsnes had as the primary target group for his cookbook. It was the large households, but she also recommended that the food that was to go to the service should be heated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e825	I have a sense of history, also of the history of cookbooks, but I am currently more orientated in some more up-to-date books than Hanna Winsnes, otherwise excellent as a historical writing, but as just inspiration to today's kitchen, I have in a way put it a little aside from the poor possibilities of «have». When it comes to where we're getting the inspiration, I could calm the representative of the Workers' Party by saying that it's not lacking in inspiration at the moment for a conservative party to pursue a policy of sensible tax relief – from a series of social-democratic governments. We can just go over the fridge and see what the Swedes do. It could be an inspiration for the tax reform centre and the Workers' Party secretly plans to do next year, as the social democrats in Germany, i.e. set the marginal tax rate on income down to 42 pst. I guess it would have been called a purely right deviation here at home. So inspiration is enough if you just want to pick it up around you, but we record that in this area Norway – and the Labour Party – is a different country. So with the world's perhaps strongest state economy at least, we're going to say that we're going to take more and more into the taxes and taxes of the inhabitants. So other countries that may have a weaker basis for government economics are heading towards saying that people should be able to keep a little more, have a little more at their disposal, after paying taxes and taxes. The school leisure system is a repeater, and I have responded to a few of the other areas in the past. In fact, the main challenge for Norway as a educational nation is not that we have too much free time at school. Our problem is that we don't have enough teaching time. All available statistics show that Norwegian children and Norwegian youth have less teaching time than in comparable countries. It's really disastrous in the real world. So our plan is actually to increase the teaching time, and then we cut something into the school leisure system, and there's a thought -- a teaching thought -- behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e834	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e837	The centre party entered into this year's budget negotiations with five priority issues. We wanted to introduce halves of food tax through the conversion of the VAT system. We wanted a fairer distribution through the conversion of the tax system, among other things. by taxing dividends on shares. We wanted to strengthen education, health care and care for the elderly through increased funding for municipalities and higher education. We wanted a stronger commitment to the transport sector through increased road appropriations and collective action. Fifthly, we also wanted to strengthen culture and the voluntary sector. In all of these areas, we have had an impact. This, of course, does not mean that we are satisfied with all parts of the budget, but given that the starting point for reaching a negotiated outcome was not the best, I am very pleased that we have achieved an impact on our demands in these areas, and that in central parts of the government budget, we have had a positive impact on important improvements. All government budgets in recent years have been marked by the fact that we are in a long period of growth, with increased employment, strong growth in investment and strong growth in particular in private consumption – a trend that is strongly opposed to what the yes side predicted before the 1994 referendum. Then the slogan was investment refugees, job losses, increasing unemployment – that was simply not how bad it would be if we did not say yes to EU membership. Now, contrary to these predictions, we have several years in a row adopted the state budget, which has had as one of its main aims the avoidance of strong activity growth in the Norwegian economy. A tight fiscal policy has tried to avoid excessive cost increases and high interest rates, with job losses as a result. This policy, in conjunction with the workers' moderating line, has produced results. The Norwegian economy is in a special position. We have maintained our competitiveness, and we have strengthened the basis for continuing the development of the welfare society. This, of course, does not mean that the situation is good in all areas. This tight fiscal policy over several years has also led to significant cuts in budgets in important areas. Despite a significant annual real growth in the income of the municipal sector, most experience that it needs to be cut in key areas of operation. Many schools don't have enough money for school books and educational material. Many of our older people don't get the care and care that it should be natural to give in one of the richest countries in the world. Employees in both the public and private sectors are experiencing increasing pressures in their working situation. In the care sector, fewer are required to carry out more and more work. The health sector is struggling with manpower and with large deficits in most hospitals, deficits to be covered despite the fact that at the same time we put hundreds of billions of dollars in the oil fund. The road network wears more than we maintain. In the course of next year, the maintenance fee will be more than NOK 9 billion. Railways are becoming worse and worse. Ports and traffic controllers are not adapted to the challenges of the future and require large allocations in the years to come. In my part of the country it is now proposed that the roads should not be broken until there is more than 20 cm of snow. In fact, we're talking about county roads, but we have some county roads in the state state. A breaker car driver I spoke to told me that when he started in the business 39 years ago, the message was that it would be broken when the snow covered a toothpick on high edge, that's 7 cm. In Norway today, it is now proposed to wait until there is more than 20 cm of snow on the road before taking out the car. Did anyone talk about road safety? That's how I could have continued to describe the area by area. This is a serious development, a serious development that must be countered by clear priorities. Unfortunately – one might say – it is not possible both to increase private consumption and to solve all these problems at the same time. Both the Community sector and private consumption cannot be strengthened at the same time. This splits the center and the right side of the layer. The right-hand side promises tax relief for all, especially for those with the highest income. At the same time, you cut billions in the sick pay system, which will hit those who already have the least. The Right Party and the Advance Party weaken the ability of the municipalities to solve their tasks. They weaken efforts to strengthen or ensure development in District Norway. Our problem is not that we need money to solve the problems I have pointed out. The problem is that we cannot spend unlimited amount of money without risk of interest and cost increase and then job losses. And I say unlimited, because when I say that, I would nevertheless point out that in some areas it should be possible to spend a lot more money than what we have committed in this budget. ECON submitted a report after the submission of the State budget showing that there is actually room for 18 p.m. increase of activity. It equals DKK 2.5 billion more for maintenance, for racial protection, for tunnel construction and for other necessary work in the road sector. So you could have increased production in the road sector by 18 pst. without creating an increase in pressure of importance in the Norwegian economy. In my view, this is one of the challenges facing us in the future: to be able to use the budget in a targeted way towards those areas where capacity is available and where there are necessary tasks to be resolved. In the Central Party, we have chosen to focus on some important issues in the negotiations under this year's budget. Firstly, it concerns the reform of VAT, where we have demanded that the VAT should be halved. We've had an impact on that. It is a good distribution policy that benefits the families of children first and foremost. Secondly, there is no doubt that this measure will also help to reduce border trade, all of which are now engaged in. Two thirds of cross-border trade in Sweden is food trade. Some have also suspected that we are concerned about the conditions of agriculture. Of course we are! There is a majority in this House who want more competition in that sector as well, more competition between countries as well. And it is true that the vast majority of European countries have a lower rate of VAT on food than the VAT rate on other products. We have also opposed the introduction of VAT on travel life and on passenger transport, and we have opposed the government's proposal for a short-term cyclical tax. That charge, in terms of VAT on travel and electricity taxes on industry, would have seriously affected competitive business. This would have led to job losses in a part of the business life that I had not believed the Workers' Party would have affected – industry and the district industry. Secondly, we want to work for a fairer distribution, primarily through the tax system. The Centre Party and the other Centre Parties have, in the same way as the LO, been engaged in bringing about an approximation between taxation of labourless income and taxation of labour income. Through the agreement on a new tax reform, we have taken a first step in that direction. This tax settlement also facilitates the removal of the sharing model, a tax model that punishes those who work in their own enterprise and taxes those who work in their own enterprise harder than those who do not. In fact, I thought that it was a wish of most people that you should facilitate working in your own company, not just live on the returns from it. Thirdly, we have been committed to strengthening the income of municipalities. The transfers to the municipalities are increased by 1 1⁄4 billion kroner through the budgetary agreement entered into. This means more to school, more to school leisure, more to health and more to care for the elderly. In fact, it is not the case, as the chairman of the Finance Committee stated in reply with Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, that it has been the last two or three years that the situation in the municipalities has been dramatically worsened. I will, as I also said when I was a municipal minister, take my share of the responsibility that the municipalities have come into an increasingly difficult situation. However, the fact is that all measures implemented in the municipal sector are measures adopted in this House. This applies primarily to the 6-year reform and the ageing effort, both of which were entirely necessary areas of activity, but where municipalities have had to take on a large part of the financial responsibility in addition to a number of other areas, which have increased costs and thus become more and more difficult to operate in the local government sector. I think that's something all local politicians and all the inhabitants of Norwegian municipalities experience these days. Finally, a few words about the cyclical tax proposed to replace the cyclical tax proposed by the Government. It's a 10 pst fee. which is to be imposed on investments in non-residential buildings. Over the years, there has been strong growth in this sector, and there is still strong growth and high demand for labour. The largest investments are made in the service sector, in particular in Oslo and in the other major cities. This cyclical tax, now agreed, is a more targeted measure than the Government itself proposed. It will help to dampen growth in some areas where we see that there is now a rise in prices due to high activity. It'll give room for e.g. increased housing construction. Of course, I am not a stranger to the fact that such a charge may have unintended and undesirable effects. In the setting it is e.g. Please note that the investment required by the EEA in the fishing industry shall not be subject to fees. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to carefully assess the mechanism of this charge before it is implemented. It is primarily intended to be an activity-absorbing measure, not an income-bearing measure. It may therefore be useful to look at other areas which should also be treated with the same ease as EEA-related investments in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e878	It's going to be line change. The President will take note of the fact that the scheduled time for the morning meeting will end during the change of line. The President will suggest that we still run through the line change – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e883	Who it is who has won the most in the budget negotiations is really immaterial to most people. I think people are more concerned with results and that welfare offers and community solutions are there when you need them. I am not sorry that the Workers' Party and the Centre have agreed to give more money to the municipalities than the government proposed. But there is no doubt that the economic situation of the municipalities could be even better. We now heard that the representative, Mr Enoxen himself, was very concerned about economic development and all the shortcomings he pointed out in the public sector. But the representative, Enoxsen, has had the opportunity to do something about it. Only nine months ago, Enoxsen was the municipal minister, and he could have been given priorities that had further improved the economic situation of municipalities. Either he didn't fight hard enough in the government, or then he lost that fight – or could it simply be that he thought the municipalities were okay enough? The worrying debt situation in municipalities has not occurred overnight. It has developed negatively, especially since 1999. The increase is now estimated to be approx. 30 billion kroner. When the Centerpartiet now proposed to create a debt arrangement for the municipalities – that is, not when Enoxsen himself was the municipal minister – we were called down by municipal politicians who strongly advised us not to honor municipalities that had run ‘less rationally’, and that those who had done their job, that is, to adapt the activity to the economy, should not get anything special left for it. The feedback from Kommune-Norge is that it is more important to pursue a general economic policy that facilitates a lower level of interest rates and gives municipalities greater freedom of action than to create a debt regime. My question is: Does the representative Enoch agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e897	The municipalities were given increased freedom of action and increased transfers even during the period I was a municipal minister – and throughout the period when the centre was responsible for government – like most other years. However, the problem is that the increase in activity in the local government sector has been greater in almost all years than the increase in transfers, for example: in the form of an underfunded 6-year reform, which the Centre Party pointed out in 1996, when it was adopted, was underfunded. Of course, the large shares of the debt increase are related to the fact that over the past three years we have carried out a historic older reform with investments up to DKK 30 billion, where the state will finance a large part of the investment, but over many years in the future. Of course, it has increased the loan debt in the period during which these investments have been made. It is not our intention to introduce municipalities that have driven unreasonablely and have increased debt in areas where it should not have increased. But in fact, I think that a run-down debt will be one of the best ways we can improve the situation of com-munities in the future. Instead of disbursing all the funds we have now allocated to oil funds, we could have used a part to facilitate the expenditure of the local government sector and the debt situation of the local government sector by using the income system, just as we do with the transfers. This would have resulted in a relatively large share of their debt being surrendered to those who have little debt. Those who have a lot of debt would have a relatively small share of the debt. That would be fair. So you would use the same criteria as the rest of the income system. I think it's going to show that the way to do it, is going to connect from far more in this house than those who have joined so far, only the matter gets a little more mature.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e905	Fair distribution is a payword that is widely used both by the centre parties and by the Workers' Party. We also find it in the agreement, and my question really relates to it. I understand that the centre party has previously been involved in the injustice of the property tax system. They have led this as a taboo, and they also passed it on and adopted a change in the system in Stortinget. We know that in today's system there are very big differences between houses in the same area and in the same municipality, and there are also very big differences between municipalities, actually up to several hundred percent. After all, it gives significant results in the tax payable. Sees the Center Party that that record increase of 15 pst. for which the centre parties have obviously been perpetrated in the negotiations, will this injustice which the centre party has previously been very concerned with, and will make greater differences in what some have called rent to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e914	In 1996, a settlement was concluded between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party on a new housing tax system. That tax system, when implemented, will provide tax relief for the vast majority of people, and this will mean that those who have a standard dwelling will not receive housing tax. That system had more or less completed the central government when the government had to go in March. It would have been presented during the spring, and the new tax system would then have been introduced in a way that would have given tax relief to most people. Now housing prices have increased significantly, and it has been common practice for almost every year to adjust the rates of housing tax in line with the price rise. It is true that this year some adjustments are made more than usual, with an increase of a total of 15 pst. But I expect the government to follow up the work done by the central government, and that it will present the new tax system as soon as possible, so that we can put in place a new tax system that will involve a more objective and fairer taxation of homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e919	Norway's Bondelag is one of the largest budget winners of the year. During the whole fall they've had meetings with the parties here in the house to argue for half the food tax. They were given an opinion poll that showed that a large proportion of the population answered yes to the question of whether they wanted half the food tax. The question was, of course, designed so that one in no way had to believe anything about the containment. In this way, the Norwegian League made its case the people's case, but now the fasitism has come. Norway’s Bondelag has had a positive impact on its position, while the families of young children across the country have been told that now it is those who have to pay the bill. The State budget contains the highest tax increases in human memory, with a general increase in VAT, an increase in housing tax, an increase in electricity tax, the coordination of child benefits and dependants’ contributions — in sum, a normal family with two children will receive an additional expenditure of about EUR 10 billion. NOK 1505. The advantage of half of the food tax, reduced kindergarten rates and reduced petrol charges is then deducted. Then the argument from the Center Party about the situation of small children's families becomes somewhat empty, because that's what the family is left with, which is crucial. When the revenue does not extend, I expect the representative of Enoxen to agree that it is no good to eat more to save VAT. In the state budget, there are exact bills in the 10 billion class. The question that many families with children now have to ask is whether the Centre Party intends to charge them for the next year too, because the experience of a working party/centre party-cooperation tells us just this: the taxes and charges go up. Can the representative Odd Roger Enoxsen tell us what to do to ensure that not the next time they come together will continue the same policy they are now pursuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e928	The fact is that reduced food tax is a good policy for distribution and benefits the families of young children and families. Those with the lowest income and the highest cost of just food will have the most savings in relative terms. Therefore, the good distribution policy of food tax is reduced. Unlike the Right, we have not chosen to cut the sick pay scheme, cut that will affect many of the same groups that the Right now expresses that they are busy with. Unlike the Right, we have not been in favour of tightening up the municipal sector every year, which will reduce the ability of municipalities to provide services to their citizens in a way that will actually also hit those who have at least before, hardest. Gro Brekken, who until six months ago was one of the top managers of the NHO, and who is now Secretary General of the Redd Barna, said on TV a week and a half ago that one of the best ways to take care of the children who have the worst in this country is to give more money to the municipalities. In this way, municipalities do not have to take increased proportions of class tours, of the school leisure system or of all activities carried out by the municipalities in the evening and which the children who have the least are cut off from being in simply because they are unable to pay the costs. It stands in stark contrast to what the NHO has done, just as the Right has done: cut transfers to municipalities, more responsibility and higher costs dropped on the individual. It hits those who have the worst, those who have the least in the past. Such a policy does not want us to conduct. That's why we've accepted and agreed to a tax regime that will tax those who have the most, more, and provide tax relief for those who have the lowest income. In sum, the budget agreement that has now been concluded makes it easier for the vast majority of the groups in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e937	The line changes that concern the local economy and priorities are really very easy. There is every reason to congratulate the Centre Party, they have succeeded in getting through a case that you have not managed to get through when you put yourself in government, i.e. lower food tax. The reality is that lower food prices have been prioritised in the run-up to local economy, but later on, as both have been prioritised. You don't. Norwegian municipalities will also have a very difficult situation until the next year, for example. because the centre party did not believe that this was important enough in the negotiations that have now been carried out. If you look at the amount of VAT allegedly to be justified on the basis of two things: border trade and the conditions of young children’s parents, is there any reason to believe that it was the one you had chosen? Let's do it first. If you had asked Norwegian parents, you have $6.5 billion at your disposal, for example. have more child-care, lower childcare rates, safer school roads, perhaps a hot meal at school and upgrade general childcare in Norway, or will you have a reduced food tax that you will have to pay yourself at a higher general VAT rate and which there is not a single guarantee to benefit the consumer? That is my first question to the representative, Mr Enoksen: how can we ensure that the reduction in the food tax actually benefits the consumer, and that this is not a reform that Rimi-Hagen will be most satisfied with, or for that matter that the Norwegian farmer can take a little better payment? That is the reality. The reason why the Central Party wants this so much is that the agricultural negotiations have failed to arrive at what the Central Party would have liked, that the farmer was better paid, and now there is an opportunity to reduce VAT. Infant parents in general would choose different from reduced VAT. Furthermore, there is no reason to believe that border trade will fall dramatically in the light of the relatively modest cost reductions that this will entail. This means a reduction in the food price of – estimates the Ministry of Finance – 7.5 pst. Nor is it right, as the representative of Enoxsen says, that this is a good policy for distribution, but let me just ask the question: what are the mechanisms of the Central Party that are supposed to ensure that this reduction actually benefits the consumer in its entirety?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e946	In fact, the Centre Party has prioritised both parts, we have prioritised both the distribution policy to the individual through the tax scheme and through the VAT scheme, and the municipal sector by strengthening the municipal economy by DKK 1 1/4 billion in addition to what the Government had put into its budget proposal. In fact, it is better able to solve the tasks of the community sector in education, in the care sector, in the school leisure system, in cultural services in a completely different way than if the community sector had not received the money it is talking about. So to the question of how to make sure that a reduced food tax results in reduced prices. From 1 July 2001, the food tax shall be reduced from 24 pst. to 12 pst. There is certainly no point that is easier to control that actually results in a corresponding price reduction than such a reduction in charges that strikes overnight. In fact, if you do not believe that such a reduction or a change in taxes will result in a change in prices, you will not believe that the tax instruments work in any other area either. It's easy to check, and it has to be a job both for consumers and for the systems that we have actually set up to carry out precisely that type of checks, to make sure that the price reduction actually comes. In fact, we have a far-reaching chain-reduction in this country, but it must actually be possible for consumers to check whether a price reduction actually occurs on 1 July next year. And don't do that, yeah, it's easy: Go to the competitor who has made sure that the prices are reduced in line with the tax reduction that has now been adopted, and make your purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e953	The centre party is subject to the indebtedness of the local government sector and there may be grounds for doing so. Therefore, the Government will also assess this in the context of the municipal economic proposition for spring. But it's amazing that this concern has become so much greater now, after this party left the government building. It is precisely in the years when the central parties put in government that the debt of the local government sector has increased significantly, even though the representative of Enoxsen now wants to discharge that responsibility. It was when the Central Party and the representative, Enoksen, sat in the driver's seat with both hands on the steering wheel of the Ministry of Local Affairs, that we got the big increase in debt in the municipalities. And it was after two years of budgetary cooperation between the centre parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, with little commitment to the municipalities, that the municipalities had to increase their borrowings so much. Does not all the experience say that it is when the Workers' Party and the Centre cooperate, we get to the best budgets for the municipalities and therefore the greatest well-being? The centre party has suggested large debt cancellations for the municipalities, and now Enoxsen says that everyone should have debt cancellations regardless of the economy, including the rich power municipalities. Will this not, in turn, lead us to contribute to a strong increase in activity and, consequently, to an increased pressure on the economy, which will again lead to higher interest rates, which is the worst thing that can happen when the debt is high?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e960	Of course, indebtedness will give municipalities an improved economy, and, of course, indebtedness will lead to increased activity in municipalities, in exactly the same way as indebtedness to the Gardermoban in ours. That was when the government of Stoltenberg introduced a new principle of debt restructuring and argued that it would not have a press impact in the Norwegian economy. But the fact is that if the Gardermoban had had to serve that loan of NOK 6.7 billion that was refurbished in ours, you would have to get income in another way, for example. by increasing ticket prices, and by shifting the cost to the individual consumer and thereby absorbing purchasing power. Thus, the reasoning can be developed in a broad and broad way in several areas. It is relatively uninteresting in this context, because what is the whole point of rescheduling the debt is that it will be a way of reducing the costs of municipalities that will enter the municipal sector for at least 15 years in the future, because the annual debt burden will be reduced, or reduced interest and deduction costs each year. I absolutely do not disclaim the responsibility for increasing the burden of debt in the local government sector. On the contrary, I said in my main post that I should take my share of the responsibility for the increased debt of the local government sector. Similarly, most of the others in this room have to take their share of the responsibility. We have been involved in the reform of the elderly and the way in which this reform has been funded. We have been aware of a number of decisions that have brought increased costs to municipalities, through new measures, through new regulations, through new reporting requirements and for operation in different areas. And it'll actually be like this year too. This year, the liabilities of the local government sector will increase by about 10 %. 9 billion kroner, even though the Labour Party boasts that a historically good settlement has been made for the municipal sector. Then I would like to point out one thing that has contributed to the discovery of the large debt increase in the local government sector, and that is the consultation system that was introduced while I was the local government minister, which has reached agreement between the local government sector and the state on how development has actually been. That plan has not been before, and the cost increases have been covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27.ana.ud2443e969	So the line change is over. The morning meeting is also late. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 6:00 p.m.
