ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e27	The representatives Anne Enger Lahnstein, Einar Johansen and Ane Sofie Tömrås, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Julie Christiansen For the Nordic region: Bears Olsen For the Province of Rogaland: Olaf Gedrem For South Tribute County: No Balstad
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e59	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e64	I allow myself to propose Per Ove width.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e69	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected President of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e77	The representative Mr. Børge Brende will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e80	On behalf of the representative Erna Solberg and myself, I would like to propose to instruct the Equations Offices to set the Equations Tariff on housing for a maximum of 30 pst. of technical value or observable market price to increase the fairness of the housing tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e86	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we proceed to the consideration of today's map, the President will refer to the meeting in Stortinget last Friday, where it was decided to waive the deadline for the release of the financial position. At the same time, it was decided that the Stortinget should set a new deadline in a later meeting. In the light of contacts with the Financial Committee, the President will now propose that the deadline for the release of the financial position be set at 23 November, i.e. tomorrow. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. According to the plan, the financial position shall be available in the hearings of the representatives early Friday morning. The financial debate will be closed as scheduled on 27 and 28 November, i.e. next Monday and Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e115	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and the Councils of State Otto Gregussen and Hanne Harlem will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e124	My question goes to the Prime Minister. When the Workers' Party and the Centres merge, there will be tax increases, and we are now facing the greatest increase in time. This also applies to housing taxes. In the current year the tariffs increased by 10 pst. The government of Stoltenberg proposed a further 10 pst. next year, and the center parties were able to push up 5 pst. Could not This is far and wide. It affects young families with mortgages, housing loans, student loans and child care expenditure. But it also affects older people with low pensions who want to live in the home they've lived for all these years. My question to the Prime Minister is, When will this end?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e133	Adjusting the housing rates is somewhat different governments from different batches have done all year round. I remember that especially the Willoch government did it, I think every year, and the Right has also supported similar adjustments earlier. Thus, adjusting the rates for determining the housing tax in line with – or perhaps at the lower end of – the price and cost growth is quite normal, and there is also something on the Right that has been voting for a long number of times. So I'm a little surprised by this violent indignation that the Workers' Party and the Centre's doing something that also the Right has done many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e138	The Prime Minister is well aware that the Right believes that the benefit tax should be removed. The Prime Minister also knows that it will now be over 25 pst. tariff increase of only two years. And it turns out to be very random. We saw at Evening News yesterday that a dwelling on Nordstrand to 8 million. kr has an equation tariff of NOK 300000. An apartment in Trägstad that went for approx. 300000 kroner, also has a fare of 300000 kroner. The odds are enormous. What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that these burdens are at least fairly evenly distributed? Now this is completely out of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e143	Firstly, tariffs also apply to types of taxes other than value added tax. And I didn't realize that the representative Petersen somehow thought that adjusting fares is something that the Right has been driving for a long number of years. It is absolutely right that we have too bad a tariff system. That is why a former Labour Party government has put forward proposals for guidelines for a fairer tariff system, and that is what we are now following up. We want a more uniform and fair tariff system for housing taxation. It can cause us to remove some of the obvious injustices and differences that exist today. It should be of interest to all parties, regardless of what they may think of the level of both property taxes, property taxes and property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e150	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e153	I recorded that the Prime Minister said that adjusting these rates is just adjusting them as price and cost developments otherwise develop. But last year, during the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, 10 psts were increased. So now you're going to increase by another 15 pst. Does the Prime Minister think it is to adjust in line with wage and price developments? Or does the Prime Minister think that it is actually about increasing the burden on everyone when it comes to making the housing a strong tax item? It may not be right to claim that this is only a small adjustment when all forecasts show that this means a significant tax tightening.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e158	There is probably an adjustment that is at the lower end of what has been the price increase in the housing market. And I didn't say anything about salary growth, but I said something about cost growth. The second is that the proposal for a tariff system that we have put forward in the past, and which we are now working on following up and putting into practice, should provide significant deductions, so that we get a much fairer tax system both in relation to the more equal treatment of similar types of housing and in relation to the protection of those who do not have the most expensive dwellings. It will give us greater justice. Despite — or even with — the proposed tariff changes, we want to have a housing tax system and a property tax level in Norway that is significantly below almost absolute levels in all other developed countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e168	Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e171	First, I would like to say to the Prime Minister that the Right on several occasions has prevented increases in the tariff base. What makes the sharp increase to next year, at 15 p.m., extra evil, is that when the Financial Committee gave up a new tariff base, which the Government has not been able to implement, it was said that the tariff base is so arbitrary that both safety valves have to be made and not – at least it meant significant parts of the Financial Committee – to increase the tariff base before creating a fairer system. So now, for the last two years, the central parties and the Workers' Party have increased their tariff base by 25 pst, and similar dwellings are subject to different rates within the same housing area. Does the Prime Minister not understand that this is perceived as unreasonable? This tax base is also the basis for the output of property taxes, property taxes and taxes on the benefit of living in owner-occupied dwellings, which are imposed regardless of the situation of the assets. You can be loaned over a pipe and still get a benefit tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e176	It is certainly true that it has been a few years since the right last vote for the adjustment of the housing charges, but it has also been very many years since the right last seat in the government position and was responsible for the state budget in this country. The second is that it is absolutely right that there are problems with the tariff base. That's why we've been working for a conversion and a change in what's going to make it significantly more fair. The third is that even with the proposed tariff changes, we want housing and property taxes in Norway that are clearly below the housing and property taxes in almost all other industrialised countries. The fourth is that the Government proposed 10 pst. Now, through the equation, where we have reduced other taxes, we have found it necessary to compensate some of it through another 5 pst. on the basis of tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e181	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e184	I have a question for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg about labour immigration. After many years of poor bargaining because we had a huge unemployment rate, we have now found ourselves in a situation where the workers are somewhat stronger. There may sometimes be more jobs to choose from, and some companies say that they would like to weaken the position of employees. To date, the Labour Party has opposed the demand for an increase in labour force immigration. The former labour manager would have 40,000 employees, nearly 60,000 people, per year. years to this country. The right has put forward proposals for free labour immigration, and in the budget agreement the Labour Party is now also promoting increased labour force immigration. Can the Prime Minister tell us how many new competitors in the labour market can ordinary workers in Norway expect to get in the years of working party government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e189	The Labour Party has not responded to any general free labour immigration. What the Workers' Party has done is follow up what we said in ours, and as my government proposed, namely decorations of the provisions relating to how we regulate labour migration. What my government went into for in ours, was three things. One was the decoration of the specialist provision. There is an advantage not only to the health service but also to parts of the IT industry and other activities requiring specialists. We went in for the decoration of seasonal work and for some special decoration in relation to, among other things. the ability of Russians to work in the fishing industry in Finnmark. I think that is an advantage for Norway and an advantage for the value creation in Norway. Then we have said, both in our own national budget and in the budget agreement with the central parties, that we are open to considering further decorations of those provisions as long as it does not undermine the general working and pay conditions in Norway, and as long as it serves important purposes in Norway, such as: the need for more skilled labour. We're going to come back to concreteizing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e194	I found that I did not receive an answer to the question about the number. Former Director of Labour has talked about 40 000. If you also allow, as in the government's and middle-parties' cards, that the employees have a family, you can at least add 50 pst., and then the Director of Labour has talked about 60,000 people – to be provided housing, and children are to be provided with school. Does the Government intend to assess the long-term consequences of a significant increase? Is it so to understand that the Government does not consider this budget agreement to mean anything new, after the central parties have given this point great weight and here expects a change in government policy? Can we get an explanation from the Prime Minister: How many are the Government prepared to accept, and how will it weaken the position of ordinary workers in this country when there is competition with new workers from other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e199	I do not feel that there is anything significant new in the budget agreement we entered into, because we made decorations in ours, and we announced that we would have a review to look at further decorations. There is no general freedom of immigration, but it is about looking at the rules and seeing how they can be adapted so that we can solve more problems in Norway. It's e.g. so that in the case of the project Progress Party and the Workers' Party, IT Fornebu, there is consensus among all the actors that we need more opening for IT specialists to Norway to succeed, so I have the impression that the Progress Party fully agrees with us. There is also a need for health professionals. We have free immigration from the whole EEA area, and it also concerns, among other things. to better facilitate immigration from areas where we are already open to labour immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e204	There will be follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e207	It is now that we start getting daily reports on enterprises assessing relocation from Norway due to labour shortages — both specialists and unskilled and skilled workers. In that perspective, the Right has promoted a Document No. Eight proposals to amend the legislation to facilitate the labour market. The important element here is not just the question of what type of labour and how many to come, but a drastically simplified procedure for obtaining a work permit. Because today, one of the main problems is that the Directorate for Foreign Affairs – UDI – is not working. The fact that some employers experience that it takes eight months from finding that they need labour, until they are actually treated for any work permit, and that they need to do so through 13 different stages of public bureaucracy, is one of the main reasons why the Right has wanted to reflect and change the principles of the law. Would the Prime Minister not also consider whether we could have a drastic change in the legislation? Today, we are in a situation where the UDI proceedings make us feel bad – at least it makes me feel bad, and I hope it makes the Prime Minister feel bad too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e212	On the issue of labour immigration – i.e. not asylum and refugee policy, but labour immigration – there are two extremes. One is those who are in favour of complete freedom of immigration — no restrictions on immigration at all — and the other is those who are against all immigration. I reject both positions. I think both positions are wrong, both to say no to all labour immigration and to say yes to all labour immigration. What is our common task is to find legislation and practice of the legislation that makes us have fair rules and fair practices in relation to labour immigration. And there we have, not least in the light of the great shortage of labour within important occupational groups in Norway, been in favour of embellishment. It was my government that proposed decoration and announced review in relation to further decoration. Now we're going to go through it in a responsible and good way, and then we're going to look at the proposals and promote them in turn and orderly for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e218	Lodve Solholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e221	I noticed that the Prime Minister did not answer the questions from Carl I. Hagen, but I can give you a number. Velferdsalliansen's figures show that there are 140,000 job-seekers in Norway today. Most of them are probably members of LO, I'm sure. And then the question is: wouldn't it be better to try to make sure that these 140 000 jobseekers in Norway will get a job through qualification and empowerment instead of perhaps now opening up to a gigantic labour immigration where jobseekers from abroad will compete on the labour market with Norwegian workers who are in line to search for work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e226	I fully agree that it is a very good thing to try to qualify those who are unemployed today. And it is clear that in a Norway where there is a shortage of labour in most industries across large parts of the country, it is a great paradox that we still have many tens of thousands of unemployed. What they lack is competence, qualifications and, for example: Norwegian. One of the reasons why we have repeatedly rejected the proposals of the Progress Party to cut labour market measures is that labour market measures are precisely the bridge we need to help the unemployed into the ordinary labour market. But I see no contrast between investing in active labour market policies in relation to those who are currently unemployed, and being open to looking at changes and adjustments to the regulations related to current labour migration regulations. As far as I know, the Progress Party has also been concerned about the lack of IT personnel and has been positive about opening up adjustments to the provisions related to, for example. IT personnel for Norwegian IT companies. So there it's possible to mean two things at the same time, also for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e235	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e238	The left and the other parties in the centre assume that in the years to come, we need free hands in care professionals, education and important special professions, including: IT – as the Prime Minister has mentioned. We also assume that we will be able to set some sort of Norwegian record in positive terms, namely to get employers to take on the disability that is now being unretired. Given this reality description, we further assume that labour is still needed from abroad. Is this a description of reality shared by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e243	I mean, it's a combination, yeah. We need to mobilise more labour in Norway, not least those who have reduced working capacity today and those who are unemployed. For this reason, we are investing in both reintroduction, increased subsidies to enterprises that absorb exposed labour, and labour market measures. I have today recalled that it was my government that proposed changes in three areas: seasonal work, specialisation and in relation to the fishing industry in Finland, and we have announced that we will go through the legislation to look at further decorations. But then one must try to avoid falling into one of the ditches, either to be in order to eliminate all regulations or to reject all labour immigration. We need to find a balance point, and there we are working on further proposals to follow up on the things we have already proposed for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e252	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e255	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. In recent times, disagreements between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party – as well as the other central parties – have been revealed on an ideological matter, namely the view of the place of voluntary organisations in society. We know that hundreds of thousands of people in Norway are engaged in idealistic work in areas such as humanitarian and social work, Christian work, child and youth work, environmental work, family organisations, etc. And then, in the proposal for the state budget, we experienced a fairly continuous cut in the support just to these organizations. The centre has now been corrected in the budget. We're not going to have a financial debate today, but I'm asking a more fundamental question: does this reflect the Workers' Party's view of the voluntary sector's place in Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e262	The Labour Party is a strong and warm and committed member of the voluntary sector and non-governmental organisations, and we have supported non-governmental organisations through a long political life for many years. We ourselves are a movement based on non-governmental organisations – such as AOF, Norwegian Public Aid and many others – but we have, of course, also supported non-governmental organisations across a broad spectrum. In my speech to the national meeting, I placed great emphasis on the importance of non-governmental organisations in the Norwegian community, in the construction of democracy, in relation to humanitarian tasks, health services and in many other areas. So we're strong followers of the volunteer organizations. I think we should be careful to construct disagreements between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party in the view that we need voluntary organisations, and I refer to my excellent speech to the national meeting, where I place great emphasis on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e269	It is excellent with speeches and declarations of strong support, but I am more concerned with practice – which has thus gone the wrong way. Unfortunately, we sometimes get the impression that someone in the Workers' Party is looking at non-governmental organisations in the face of a conflict between community and privatisation. Does not one also see that voluntary organisations represent a kind of enlarged Community concept, namely that people join forces and make an effort that is also crucial for the welfare society? Now Stoltenberg showed his own speech at the national meeting. I get quotes from the Labour Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland, who was involved in the treatment of people with drug problems, among others. said the following: ‘It is not useful to leave this to non-governmental organisations alone who are engaged in their special therapy or treatment method often in competition with others.’ This leaves a completely different impression of the view of non-governmental organisations than can be measured by the Prime Minister. So my simple question is, does the Prime Minister agree with party leader Jagland in his statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e281	I don't think there can be any doubt that we can't leave the drug prevention work to voluntary organisations alone. But that doesn't mean that non-governmental organisations don't have an important role to play, and there's obviously Thorbjørn Jagland and I are completely in line. Once again, I feel that there are now constructs of contradictions that do not exist. We have a lot of documentation and have been involved in supporting non-governmental organisations for many years and believe that they are doing an important job. I also paid great attention to my national meeting speech that is on our websites, which is available to anyone who wants to read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e289	There will be follow-up questions – Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e292	Since Stoltenberg here expresses that he and his party are so strong and warm followers of the voluntary sector, it was nice for him that he got the help of the conciliators to put realities behind this also in the budget. Of course, it would have been tempting to ask the Prime Minister how he would have characterized a government that had implemented such major changes in the budget as has now happened, if he had been in opposition. But I'm not going to ask you that. In the continuation of what Mr Bondevik says, I would like to ask about changes and improvements in the budget in important areas. We have now seen, after the conciliation took place, that central workers' parties and commentators have generally stated that there are consistent improvements in the draft budget presented by Stoltenberg. I've actually barely seen anyone who's expressed the opposite. I would simply like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees that there is a significantly better budget that has now been tailor-made by the conciliators than he himself put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e299	The President would like to stress that, as regards the budgetary procedure, it will take place as previously referred to in the Stortinge today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e302	Of course, I do not agree with that. The question mark today began with questions relating to an area where many people feel that there has been a deterioration, namely the accumulation of housing charges in addition to what the Government proposed. So if Sponheim hasn't come to realize that someone thinks that the changes have gone in the wrong direction, Sponheim hasn't followed enough, because the question mark just started pointing to an area where it was thought that the deal had gone in the wrong direction, with increased rates for housing and increased tax on housing. Moreover, the changes in the expenditure side of the budget are small. That's $1.5 billion that's added on. But the SEK 1.5 billion is fully covered, mainly through cuts in other areas of the budget and something, $300 million. kr, through further increases in income. So on the cost side, there are unusually small changes. This has been a major change on the income side, but it has to be seen in the context of two factors: firstly, the implementation of a VAT reform and, secondly, the shifting of problems to 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e309	Let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e312	It is a question to the Minister for Fisheries, who said in October that new breeding concessions should be auctioned out. The biggest player is going to get the growth in the industry, and the treasury is going to get the billions. Coast-Norway said no, to say it mildly, and the bulk of the population has twice said no to that principle. The National Assembly of the Labour Party also said no. Today's news in the newspapers is that the Council of State also says no. But now there's going to be a fee to the treasury based on the applicant's wallet. The size has to be determined in that way, and it's going to be a little bit of an EEA circus, I'm going to assume. Then it's going to be possible to sell it freely to those who pay the most, in the next round. So the sales gain is going to be in the country's pocket for the first time and to the individual breeder who receives a concession for the next round. Nothing to the coastal communities, in spite of what many have demanded in the process we have had. The question then is: is it correctly stated that there is no element of the capital injection into the breeding municipalities in the new model of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e319	In what has been said both from the National Labour Party meeting and in other clarifications, it is clear that the question of whether part of the remuneration for the breeding concessions is due to the municipalities needs to be further investigated. Of course we're set to do that. We will then discuss whether part of the concession fee is due to them, and whether it is reasonable and reasonable for industrial development to introduce a land tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e324	In the opinion of the Centre Party, much of the benefit of the community in the new farming industry must be ensured. We think it's important, not least to give compensation to those who give off the land. There are 2000 locations in the farming industry today. We hope for a time-lapse in 15 years. Then local goodwill is needed, and the goodwill is closely linked with bringing values back to the community. The best way to pick the values back is to have local owners who make sure that new businesses are created. Another way is an annual area charge, but it may also be that the sales gain of concessions can go into local food reserves. So there are many possibilities. The worst solution for the community is that the industry is listed on the stock market, that the operation is distinguished from ownership. Is there no other local gain in addition to the tax from the rumors of what the Council of State has provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e329	In general, all activities in the breeding industry generate relatively high levels of activity in other parts of the business of the municipality in question. Normally between five and ten employees are needed in further processing per year. person engaged in breeding. I agree that it is right that large parts of what happens from value creation are going to happen on the coast and remain in the communities, and I would most definitely claim that this is what is happening today, and that has always happened in the Norwegian farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e334	There will be follow-up questions – Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e337	The Government and the Fisheries Minister’s proposal to auction farming concessions weighed protests all around the coast. It is very good that a number here at Stortinget and later the Labour Party's national meeting also rejected it. But like Mr Morten Lund, I have also been surprised at how the Minister for Fisheries was referred to yesterday from a meeting in Florø. I just want to confirm that what was in the agreement on the capital increase in Statkorn, and what else has been said, is that one should have a thorough treatment first in the department, and that the Stortinget should then determine what this arrangement should be. It looked as if someone had already gone in and decided what it would be like, for example. that one should have the hall of concessions according to what people could afford to pay. This is not fair, and I would like a confirmation that the Storting is able to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e343	I can confirm that it would be perfectly normal for you to come back to Stortinget with your own proposition on this, because that, among other things, is. changes to the Fish Breeding Act § 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e348	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e351	The arrangements made by the Minister of Fisheries in respect of concession auctions, including, where appropriate, subsequent concession payments, will clearly favour the major actors and actually block the possibility of small businesses and individual individuals in the district to create their own business through farming. In spite of all these people who have originally built this industry, Norway has become so important. By adding Statekorn Holding to the equity they received last week, it has also been ensured that the company becomes a competitor of the already existing business in Norway. What will the Minister for Fisheries do in this matter? Will he now ensure that individual people in the districts are given the opportunity to create their own business through the possibility of starting their own farms?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e356	It is very important for me to facilitate that we get both new and old actors as owners of the new concessions that are coming. I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to be able to get a valuation of these concessions that make this possible. I'm sure we'll be able to implement it in such a way that we don't get an unfair competition about these between companies with very large resources and companies that don't have enough resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e361	Admits Gabrielsen to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e364	After all, the Council of State also took note of the auction, and it is gratifying. Last week, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party contributed SEK 1.2 billion and created a breeding elephant that is now to be found in the glass magazine of the marine farm – to say the word – above the coast and buy up a lot of concessions in order to achieve the goal that the Ministry has set on the recommendation of the financial brokers of Aker Brugge, namely that 60,000 tonnes should be the production volume of Statkorn. 30000 tonnes are to be produced on the southern hemisphere in Chile. How many concessions do Statkorn have to buy, or how many companies do they have to infuse? How many concessions do companies have to have in order to realise the vision that these advisors have had for the company and that the Ministry and the Government have taken? How many concessions will 60,000 tonnes mean they're going up the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e371	As Minister of Fisheries, I am responsible for the organisation of nutrition development also in the aquaculture industry. In my work, I would like to stress that all companies should be treated equally, including Statkorn. What Statkorn himself had to do with internal assessments, I believe is a matter for the government of Statkorn and for the general meeting, which is the Minister of Agriculture. There is no mention in any way of any special treatment being given to State cereals. I have also understood that the company itself has stated that it will mainly invest its capital in building up a fairly large activity outside Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e376	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e379	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. The Labour Party Government presented a proposal for the State budget which included more proposals for changes to the tax and tax system than we have experienced in the past. The Labour Party has now conducted budgetary negotiations with the centre. The result is that it has moved in excess of billions over a long, long period of time in budgetary negotiations in Stortinget. Despite such extensive changes in a government budget from one year to another, School-Norway and Education-Norway will be on-site resting from last year to this year. Despite the fact that it has moved more than ever before, environmental policy will be in reverse next year, and there will be exactly as many poor children in Norway next year as it is this year. The Prime Minister has been concerned to say that Norway is the country of opportunity. When will the countries of opportunity get to grips with the most important problems first?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e390	It is not true that nothing is done in terms of education and in relation to, for example: poverty among children. As far as education is concerned, we are following up on what has been a requirement for a very long time, that of raising the teacher's salary, and that is for 2001 we are giving money for it. It also means that we get a better deal with the organization of the school day, so that we can get more education out of the money we put into school. It's an important boost for the school what we do in the school sector, both in terms of teacher's pay and in relation to other bets, among other things. IT training at school. When it comes to distribution policy, we do a lot of things. First, we take something more from those who have the most, through increased taxation of those who have dividends. But we also do things in relation to those that have the least. For the second year in a row, we get some relief for the lowest income. In addition, we're doing a cap on housing construction. We build substantially more rental properties and significantly more student homes, and we extend the Husbank's loan framework and expand the arrangement with start-up loans for the weakest people on the housing market. This is true of some of the most difficult in Norway — a rise in housing policy. It also helps poor children. Then we do things in relation to labour market measures, social assistance and social security schemes, which mean that more people can live on their own income and increase the subsidies and aid to enterprises that take in the labour force that are at risk or have problems getting into the labour market. All these are measures that help those with the most difficulty in Norway and therefore contribute to a fairer distribution. So this is a budget for fairer distribution, and we've secured that through the conciliation with the center parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e401	I am disappointed with the Prime Minister's level of ambition. In fact, school Norway from the north to the south is in such a wretched constitution that no adults would find themselves working in what is everyday in Norwegian school. It is also such that the weather is against normal, both west, east and south. This means that there are difficult challenges in environmental policy to shift towards more public transport and less private car investment, and the government's budget goes the opposite way. Now you've got an interesting deal between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, and I saw yesterday that the Prime Minister would also like to think about having Bondevik in government. So maybe we can talk about a kind of a new center, and that the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties make this up. But that also means that the visions for the future become more unclear, and that the Workers' Party's own ambitions and own profile are more blurred. When will the Prime Minister set clear targets for long-term change in Norway and not just wander around the centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e411	We have set very good and clear targets for changing Norway in the short term, in the medium term and in the long term. We did so in the program we adopted at the National Labour Party meeting a few days ago, and I did so in the speech I gave at the National Labour Party meeting. But if we're going to do something in the long term, we also have to be able to do something in the short term. And the state budget we now agree on, for 2001, means important steps towards the long-term goals we have of more well-being, more justice and a safer society to live in for the people of our country. We do a lot in the field of school, not least in relation to the fact that it's the municipalities that own and run the schools. That is why we have a historical investment of more money for the municipalities – 5 billion kroner. It's not least important for the schools as well. We have our own efforts in relation to information technology at school, and we have a boost in relation to the teacher's salaries financed in the 2001 budget, which is an advantage for teachers, but also an advantage for the content of the school. So it's true that we've opened up cooperation with the central parties in government. It's been two years since the Workers' Party called for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e420	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e423	After all, it is good for the Centre Party to listen to the Prime Minister's description of how the budget, in cooperation with the Centre, has been given a better distribution profile. When it comes to schools and measures for children and young people, it is right that the Government had already taken some measures. And then it's also a fact that the center didn't get the labor party as far as we wanted. But we're very satisfied with the $1,250 million. kr extra that the municipalities now receive, which means that they may not be able to set aside their own means of living pensions and can instead use the funds themselves to improve the relationship with their disadvantaged. In addition, the Prime Minister has now promised to review the local government’s debt situation. Is he in agreement with Redd Barna, who on television pointed to the difficult situation of many children as a result of different local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e430	It's the way it's starting to look like a budget debate. We're going to have it for the week. And like all other budget debates, it reminds me a little bit of Norway Championships in granting the most money for all the good purposes that everyone is following. In that exercise, we're all pretty good. It is not demanding to be too more money for good purposes. The challenge is to find space within the responsible framework of a State budget, i.e.: either to be willing to say no to other good purposes in order to find more for the very best purposes, e.g. school, and/or being willing to do something on the income side through taxes and taxes. What's impressive about the relationship between the center and the Workers' Party is not only that we've found money for the good purposes, but it's that we've found it within a responsible framework where we also take the burden of saying no in some areas, and actually take the burden of tightening up a little in the private sector. The important thing about the agreement is that we have agreed to keep the frameworks proposed by the Government, and are willing to tighten something up in the private sector to find more money, among other things. to schools, municipalities and all other good purposes. That is what is impressive, and I have therefore congratulated the negotiators and stood by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e437	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e440	My question goes to the Minister of Justice: The evening post recently had a notice of a protective pedophile attacker who became a girlfriend with a mother of two minor children. In spite of that, the mother was not informed by criminal custody in freedom, although this person was thus under acquittal for assault on minor children. My question does not go directly to this matter – I want it to be at the bottom – and ask a little more generally. When a person receives a protective sentence, it is because the court believes that this person is a threat and a danger to society. Does the Minister of Justice think that it is entirely right that secure convicted zones outside the prisons under the control of criminal justice in freedom, when we know that it increases the possibility of the pedophile attacker to commit new crimes?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e449	The Security Institute is, as Simonsen's representative says, an institute to ensure that you can stay locked up for a period of time, not as punishment, but to protect society. But surety judgments are also given for a period – typically five or ten years. This means that when the period of protection is over, he should normally return to society. Then it is a much better solution to prepare for the release of society by a gradual transition than to have people locked up completely until that day they are released and thus completely free. And the progressive transition from full confinement to freedom means I have good reasons for it. But then, of course, it is important that the progressive transition takes care of safety considerations. It must be subject to any assessment of a step from full containment and into freedom. This is why, for example: when it is known that a person convicted of sexual assault is in close contact with children, for example, in the context of a guarantee of freedom, that they are trying to obtain alert procedures. Because it must be the security issue that lies ahead, but it must be weighed against the fact that people are going back into society, and that we need to have a gradual transition, so that we have a reasonable transition to freedom and contribute to the best possible future situation in freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e456	In practice, we know that it is absolutely impossible for criminal justice to have full control of those sentencing sentences that are thus out in society. They go out and in from the cabins, and they have every opportunity to commit new abuses, and they're good at hiding their abuses. I therefore do not feel secure about the answer given by the Minister of Justice. My supplementary question is: when society is not willing to take the necessary steps to secure children against pedophiles attackers, will she at least ensure that parents can do what is possible to secure their children by setting up schemes so that they can know at any time whether there are pedophile attackers who are zones of protective convictions in the community? It can be done through Internet solutions, information phones or other means, but the central thing is that parents must have an opportunity to know that there is a person who is dangerous to their child, near where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e461	As I answered in Storting's Question Time a few weeks ago, we are working on a circular on the issue of police access to alert about presumptuous or potentially dangerous people, including pedophiles. I don't think it's a solution without saying that in general, there are people in the community who have been convicted in the past. But I believe that to some extent, if there are special reasons for that and that is to prevent criminal acts, it should be possible to alert e.g.. school and kindergarten. And in situations that we've also had, where previous convictions have taken work as a diary in a family, there's every reason to warn the family. But I think we need to find an intermediate solution between full alerts – where we can get situations like in England, where people commit suicide, where misinformation comes out, etc. – and not having any kind of warning at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e466	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e469	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. In our discussion, we are discussing a matter of how to get a rapid deployment of violent and criminal asylum seekers who have a baseless asylum application. There was full agreement in Stortinget that we should use the urgent paragraph that exists, and we got assurances from the Ministry of Justice that we have the necessary legal basis. Now, six months later, practice shows that most asylum recipients, humanitarian organisations and very many police districts feel quite helpless about organised crime, which often affects the other asylum seekers primarily. Does the Minister of Justice think that we have sufficient resources to apprehend criminals living in receptions of asylum, get the asylum application rejected where it is groundless and sent them out of the country quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e477	So far our assessment has been that it's not the legal basis that's essentially the problem here. Among other things, we have the system that both police and asylum recipients have notified UDI immediately at the moment when there are issues of notification, intention or prosecution of criminal acts in relation to asylum seekers, with the aim of hastening the matter and putting it in line to decide quickly whether to stay in Norway or not. It is also intensified after Stortingen treatment that both asylum recipients and police districts have to report to the UDI. So I don't think that's the legal basis there's anything wrong with it, the problem is that there's still too long proceedings in the UDI in relation to what's desirable, and the municipal minister, among other things. working hard to get them down. But the challenge is, as I am sure the representative of Krohn Devold is well aware, that we have had a very large increase in the number of asylum seekers over the past one-two years, which makes it difficult for UDI to keep the procedure down. In addition, I would like to point out that in the spontaneous Question Time last Wednesday, and that was in agreement with me, we would like to go through this once more to see if it is possible to make changes to the legal basis as well as to see if there is even more we can do, because I agree with the representative Krohn Devold in the problem description, namely that it is unsustainable that people apply to Norway under the cover of asylum seekers in order to commit organised crime. That's the description the police districts give. And even though there may not be many, there are plenty of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e484	The problem is that, in the case of criminal asylum seekers, police districts say clearly, by 20 November at the latest: ‘We have no jurisdiction, neither in the penal code nor in the foreign law, to keep them under police custody.’ There is a direct conflict with the information the Committee received in our course when we dealt with this matter. If this is not the case, can the Minister of Justice assure that every police district will receive a circular or a clear message on how this law is to be enforced? One thing the committee said quite clearly is that it is even more important that asylum recipients get the heavy criminal elements taken out than it actually is in society. In asylum recipients, there are many families with children who have experienced a tough life situation where they come from and who may thus be at risk of having violent, threatening people in the neighbouring room, who are back at the reception 12 hours after the police have taken care of them. Can the Minister of Justice assure that such guidelines will now be given?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e494	What I referred to in the introduction was that the police – and this is evident from the prosecution instructions – have instructions to report to the UDI about the sentencing and appeals, so that the UDI can deal with the matter quickly. I have not said that there is access to the custody of asylum seekers to a greater extent than by others. And it's clear that detaining asylum seekers on a thinner basis than what we're detaining others from, I see great fundamental concerns. So if there's a question of detaining people without one having the necessary legal basis to prison, I don't think there's a reason for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e499	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Hernæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e502	This began well with the Minister of Justice saying that it is not the legal basis that is missing, and it builds up under the overall committee said in the vote that was taken in Stortinget on 13 June this year, stressing that the opportunity to take rapid decisions when the applications are ‘clearly groundless’ is to be used, and that the time of proceedings is to be reduced. Then my question becomes in the light of the events we have been referred to in the last few days: does not the Council of State hear what the Storting says about these matters, or will she not listen to it? We said that when there are obviously groundless applications, the legal frameworks you have are to be used, and the procedure is to be reduced. With regard to the matters we have been referred to in the last few days, for example. Norsk Folkehelp's headline in the newspaper on Monday, well, there's nothing to suggest that you use the funds you have, and that the processing time goes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e507	When Stortinget said that clearly groundless matters should be dealt with under the rapid paragraph, it was in accordance with the legislation that the Ministry of Justice described as the applicable legislation. I hope there is no doubt that the Ministry of Justice and the UDI will use the funds they have. But as I also said in my first answer, our problem is that the processing time is long, although we have the warrants, so I maintain that it is not the homes that are the problem, but that we have too many cases in total in relation to the processing capacity, so that the proceedings take a long time. Of course, I am willing to go back and – in consultation with the municipal minister – once again check that the institutions and regulations that have been adopted are actually followed, but I see it as a different theme than the issue of prisoning asylum seekers on a non-legal basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e514	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e517	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Earlier this year, the Storting House dealt with a number of legislative changes to protect people in the police and judicial system from threats and abuses, so that the rule of law would be safe, and in that context it also looked at the issue of anonymous witnesses. In the debate on this subject, several representatives travelled, inter alia: I am on behalf of the Left, the question of witness protection. Later, such an initiative on behalf of all the Nordic Council centre parties has been raised against the Nordic governments, because we see organized crime often force people to flee, and that they are often helpless, as the situation is today. My question to the Council of State is: can she undertake to give us a proper witness protection programme in Norway in a timely manner, or in a Nordic context where necessary, so that the witnesses can count on security when they are exposed to organized criminals? We know them in a number of areas, both drugs and violence. So the question is urgent in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e526	In the proposition to which the representative Dørum refers, it was also said that we should work on it. The representative of Dørum raised the issue of Nordic cooperation, and at that time I replied – as I would like to repeat – that it was a sensible initiative, as I also understand that the representative of Dørum has repeated in connection with the Nordic Council. I appreciate that, I think that is a good initiative. I would like to make a commitment that we will follow it up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e531	That, I think, was a constructive response to secure the rule of law and protect witnesses. Then I ask an additional question: can we count on a change in the law and rules to make it easy for the people who need it, to change the number of the person? Unfortunately, in this country it is easier to change your name than to change your personal number – and one is found on your personal number.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e538	I have to answer roughly the same way again. I fully agree with the representative Dørum that it is important to get there quickly, and to be honest, it has already been too long for the Norwegian authorities to get this sorted out. I'm busy getting this to quickly, but I can't promise how fast we get it to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e547	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e550	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. In a press release from the Ministry of Fisheries on 4 October, state councilman Gregussen says that it is absolutely essential that food eaten in Norway and in 170 countries that buy Norwegian marine products is safe and of good quality. Gregussen suggests that safe and good seafood is a prerequisite for triggering the great potential for value creation in Norwegian aquaculture. But then I read in the «Fiskaren» that outbreaks of salmonella in Norwegian fish meal are not uncommon – i.e. in the feed industry. More shocking is the fact that Norwegian fishmeal producers have agreed to keep salmonella outbreaks secret. My question is, does the Council of State know about this? Will the Council of State intervene with regard to the unculture which is an attempt at secrecy, and will the Council of State also find guidelines that effectively stop the use and sale of fishmeal that is at risk of salmonella infection?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e557	The specific cases referred to show with all possible clarity that it is necessary to take proper responsibility both for those supplying raw material for fish feed production and for those producing fish feed. I believe that we have to trust that the normal rules for trading conditions between the contracting parties are such that we ensure that the products supplied maintain the quality required. It's after what I understand, not uncommon that you have this kind of problem. It must be handled by each factory and, of course, it is not permitted to send in normal-market products that do not meet quality objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e562	I thank you for your answer. Now I didn't feel like the Council of State said anything about what I'm most responding to, that it's trying to keep it secret by the industry. According to Knut Roger Sivertsen of the Directorate of Fisheries, the use of fish cutting as raw material in the flour industry leads to an increased risk of salmonella. Fishmeal is not only used for fish feed and animal feed; it is also used for human food in tablet form as a health food and as a flavouring in soups. Had this case been about salmonella infection in chicken, action had been taken immediately. What concrete action has the Council of State planned to take against feed producers to prevent salmonella outbreaks and will the Council of State respond to attempted secrecy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e569	As I said, the fact that products of the right quality are delivered is a matter both between the contractors and in relation to the Norwegian authorities. Norwegian authorities must continue to exercise active control, through internal control, etc. is carried out in such a way that such things do not occur. In the case of products used for human consumption, there is clearly a completely different control and additional control and for these products strict requirements are also imposed on manufacturers. But these are things that happen. There are things you have to deal with on a case-by-case basis, and it is going to be as far as I know, also done, at great expense to the manufacturers who are experiencing this problem. I also want to add that it is important that we take care of all the raw material from fish. It is also important that we make use of by-products from fish, such as fish. waste for fish feed. In general, this is fully possible and very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e578	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e583	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President finds it necessary to inform him, on the basis of Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The last 3 terms have determined that only one supplementary question will be raised after the main question has been answered. This is considered necessary for the completion of the current map within the scheduled time of the morning meeting. There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The President would remind his colleagues that in the previous Question Time the changes were of such a nature that the Storting had to be interrupted in its negotiations. The President therefore requests that all actors contribute to the smooth running of this Questionnaire. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 8, from the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Administration, who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Administration, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Church, Education and Research, the question is moved and answered before question 32, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 9, from the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson to the Minister for Health, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State to answer question 36, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. The question will be raised by the representative of Are Næss. Question 23, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 24, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Defence, the question is moved and answered in response to question 5 to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 25, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Question 27, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him. Question 29, from the representative Gunnar Kvassheim, and questions 30 and 31, from the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e612	‘A Misioner from Bergen is imprisoned in Nepal. He is charged with ‘mission activity’. The charge is an attack on freedom of faith and freedom of expression. Nepal has signed the Central Conventions on Human Rights. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to release the Misioner?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e619	The Norwegian Embassy in Nepal has assisted the Norwegian military officer from the time he was arrested by the Nepalese authorities at the end of October. He/she is now in custody and is intended for ‘illegal abuse’. Our embassy in Kathmandu is in regular contact with the munitions. A representative from the embassy visited him last Sunday with the embassy's permanent lawyer. They had further conversations with the central people on site. The embassy will contact the prison authorities with a view to the transfer of the munitions to Kathmandu. The embassy can then make a more appropriate contribution to the full exercise of its interests. I can assure the representative of Apelthun Seele that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is following this matter very closely. State Secretary Møgedal travels to Nepal at the end of this week, and she intends to deal with the matter with Nepalese authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e635	I thank you for your answer. I'm very pleased with that answer. Nepal has, as you know, signed the Central Conventions on Human Rights. Part of Norwegian aid has just been devoted to promoting human rights and democratisation. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in contact with Nepalese government powers, link such means of assistance to human rights violations, possibly to the handling of the Norwegian citizen, as Norway has done in the case of detection of corruption? Does the Foreign Minister see this as a golden opportunity to address violations of human rights and demands for respect for human rights in Nepal? The last five to six years have been critical when it comes to human rights in Nepal. There have been increased tortures and increased use of extrajudicial executions. What can and will the U.D. do to improve human rights in general in Nepal? There were a lot of questions, but there was also only one ratio.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e646	The most important thing now is to get something done for the munitions. Secondly, I would like to say that there is a dialogue with Nepal, and it has been for a long time, about human rights. They are part of the political dialogue we have with the country. Nepal is a major cooperation country for us, we have assistance for the country. Obviously, these two things are closely related. The size has pointed out that there is a growing need to work for good governance, democracy and human rights. That's why it's an important part of the dialogue we have with the authorities in Kathmandu. But the most important thing now is to get something concrete done for this moustache.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e658	I allow myself to address the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The internal audit of the Defence Manager has been brought to light by the fact that the press has referred to critical reports it has prepared. According to the media, the internal audit is now to be closed. In the defence there is a need for an independent body to evaluate all levels on a free basis. It may now appear that this department will be removed because it has come up with criticisms of effectiveness and achievement in defence. Is the planned closure in line with the wishes of the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e667	I'm of course for an independent audit firm in Defense. The Financial Regulation assumes that the internal audit shall have the necessary integrity. There is reason to stress that it is the Riksaudition that has the audit responsibility for the national accounts and that is the Supervisory Body of the Storting. The constitutional responsibility for the defence lies with me as the Council of State. The Ministry of Defence, as the Government Office, is responsible for the overall management and control of the activities of its agencies. As part of the State Executive, the Ministry of Defence supervises the activities of its departments. The Ministry has set up a controller unit to carry out overall control of its operations. The Head of Defence shall be responsible as Head of Department for the effective and appropriate management systems and procedures of the Defence Military Organisation. It is the line managers under the Defence Manager who have the daily responsibility for the establishment, implementation and follow-up of the financial management. The tasks of the internal audit are to verify the adequacy of the established management and control system and its proper functioning. For large and complex activities such as the Defence Military Organisation, the Financial Regulation provides for the establishment of an internal audit that is part of the follow-up tool of the Head of Unit, i.e. the Chief of Defence. The integrity of the internal audit is achieved by not requiring it to carry out control tasks under its responsibilities. I refer to the mention of the need for change at the Defence Command in St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001. Any changes to the Defence Internal Audit will be decided as part of this work. This autumn, the Ministry of Defence started an investigation into the future organisation of the department and command apparatus under the Ministry. The definition of a final audit structure for the defence must be seen in the context of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e682	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The employees’ organisations have pointed out that the internal audit of the head of defence, with its right of establishment under the head of defence, has the integrity and independence necessary for such a unit. They have also pointed out the need for such a location in order to provide reports of adverse conditions at all levels of the organisation. Will the State Council take into account the comments of employees’ organisations? Recent attention has been focused on the use of consultants in public enterprises, and it has been indicated that such use needs to be reduced. The internal audit function of the upper level of defence shall, if the present proposal is implemented, be provided by external consultants. Is this development in line with the wishes of the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e691	Of course, we will focus on the views of the employees in this process. I don't think the head of defense can be said to be known as a man who will avoid criticism, he's on the contrary very used to criticism, and he likes to have a system under him that can as effectively as possible enable him to verify that what's political and military decisions in the management are followed up in the Defence Organisation. That's what the Internal Audit is doing today. One might get the impression that one believes the internal audit is the Storting's control tool. It's far from it, it's the defense chief's own body, and I have a slightly relaxed relationship with how he prioritises there, provided he lives up to political decisions at large and government level. But all of the input that comes from both employees and from others, we're going to include it. And attracting external consultants is not foreign to public agencies, of course it can also be relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e699	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘In the context of the development of the Eastern Region it is set at 62 million. crowns of the cultural memory project. As of today, 366 cultural memories, mainly capture, iron and coal pits, have been uncovered at 15 pst. of the 226 km2 field. Do the Council of State agree that the cultural memories of the area in question are mainly recorded and preserved for the future, so that the funds can be used in special areas and otherwise transferred for other purposes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e708	The short version is: no, not entirely. I'll explain. Per. In September 2000, it was discovered approximately. 1 100 cultural memories, and 46 pst. of the total area has been recorded in connection with the planned development of the Eastern Region. The scope of registrations under the Culture Memory Act is determined by the competent authority, in this case Hedmark County. The Culture Memory Act obliges the respondent, the Defender, to pay for the costs of the surveys. In order to clarify the professional framework and the total cost, there has been close cooperation between the professional authority and the action holder, the Defence Building Service. The Riksantikvaren, the University’s Cultural History Museums – The Old Saks Collection and the Planning Authority, Åmom kommune, have also been represented in this work. At this stage, the action holder has sought to make its contribution to keeping costs within the proper framework. The work consists of both records and excavations. The budget for the registration part is approximately Nineteen million. kr, while the budget for archaeological excavations, carried out by the University’s Cultural History Museums – Old Saxony Collection, amounts to 43 million. SEK 62 million in total. kr. Work is expected to be carried out over the period 1999-2004 and per year. Today is $9 million. kr consumed. It is necessary to ensure that cultural historical knowledge is not lost, and the development of the region area needs to be adapted to other natural and social considerations. Therefore, for the successful implementation of the regional field project, it is important that archaeological studies continue in accordance with agreed progress. It is my opinion that the cultural memory surveys in the region field do not differ significantly from other projects it is natural to compare with. I therefore find it appropriate to stick to the framework of the investigations agreed between the respondent, the Defence Building Service, and the responsible professional authority in Hedmark County.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e723	Thanks for the answer. Almost agreeing is also good! I would like to join in what the Council of State says about the need to ensure that cultural historical knowledge is not lost, and that the development of the region must be adapted to other natural and social considerations. Now my question was about registration, and that is what the Council of State initially answers. But then he also takes up the question of the archaeological excavations, and it's not entirely from the answer to how far you've come there, and what costs have been incurred. It would be desirable if the Council of State could say something about both speed and cost so far. Otherwise, I understand the answer in that direction that there are things that indicate that you won't need all of them in total 62 million. kr that is set aside for the project. I guess that's how I had to understand the wording of the Council of State – I guess it wasn't a formulation, but an assumption – that there might be some money to save on the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e734	As for the details of how far you have come to dig, I have to get back to it to the questioner. Otherwise, I would say in general that there might be some means here to save, but to advance it now, it's too early. That's where I have to point out my answer. I understand the representative's impatience in using this money for something else, if there is something to use after we have completed the setup in accordance with Stortinget's intention. But it's impossible to say something concrete about now so early in the phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e747	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The Defence Command/The Army has decided that mobilising equipment, weapons, ammunition and uniforms shall no longer be delivered to the mobilising order of the Army. [[FO/HST]] Does the State Council see any concern about this ‘arming’ of the country’s reserve officers, even if it is possible for some to avoid this through the agreement concluded between NROF and FO/HST?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e756	First, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this withdrawal of weapons and equipment only affects the mobilization order in the Army. Per. Today there are about 12,000 weapons out there among this mobilization order. The background to the action has been, in essence, the need to gain better control, including in terms of safety, over the weapons that are out of the Army's mobilization order. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are also a number of orders that are no longer available in the mobilization defence, but that still hold their mobilization equipment. I therefore do not agree with Mr Bredvold when he refers to the system in place as a ‘armament’ of the country’s reserve officer. I can assure the representative of Bredvold that I also see this group of officers as important for our mobilization defence. However, the withdrawn equipment will now be stored in the mobilising warehouses and the mobilising order still made available to the Army departments will be delivered by its department in the event of mobilization. As regards any concerns with the scheme in place, I would like to point out that the mobilization order in the Army, as for other forces, is provided for in a department. They shall not wander around individually on the terrain. Such a department will hardly be able to solve its intended mission in a mobilization situation if the command is not able to meet precisely at the department. The most important thing, therefore, is to ensure that the mobilisation order can also be met by its designated department. This is done, inter alia: by initiating mobilisation so early that it also allows a transfer between and within the parts of the country. This means that the army's fighting force can hardly be measured from single soldiers with handguns, but must be seen in the light of the fighting power of the respective departments after the show. In this context and in the light of the situation, I consider the action taken by the professional military authorities to be inconceivable. It is quite the opposite. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the measure does not include orders and soldiers belonging to the Home Office departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e769	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe that both the Council of State and the others who see the Defence as a very important part of the Norwegian – and international – society want to contribute to Norway's highest level of defence. But in this directive on the surrender of both weapons and equipment, I think unfortunately there will be a reduction in the motivation of many of our reserve officers. A lot of people think of it as a reduction of the defense, and that the preparedness is thus weakened. But the most important thing is, as I see it, that professional pride, cohesion, etc. may disappear. Does the Council of State see that the motivation of those who entered the Defence for taking responsibility, providing a little more and thus helping to defend the honours of the country, the King and the flag, can in the long run be lost, with the consequences of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e783	No, I don't really see that father. Knowing that my weapon is properly stored in the department I am going to serve in in a situation of mobilization must be essential. The professional pride that must consist of having the stock exchange so to speak in the cabinet at home, where it is not supposed to be used, I don't see the whole point of it. It has to be satisfying that the weapon is there when you need it, and it's in the set unit when the unit works together.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e793	I would like to ask the Minister for Defence the following question: ‘The size has decided to add the infanteribatalion of NATO’s call-out force to the Heistadmoen, and large sums of money have been invested in upgrading the camp. The Secretary-General of the Army has proposed that quota 0801 to Telemark battalion be moved from Heistandmoen to Skjold. Is the proposed transfer to Skold an advance on the treatment of Defence Study 2000 and the Defence Policy Selection, or is it only a temporary derogation that applies in 2001?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e802	The quota IV for Kosovo consists of the Telemark Battalion, which will be in the operational area in the autumn of 2001. The same harvest and the following spring, a new quota must be trained in Norway in order to take over as quota VI in the autumn of 2002. The Order of the Telemark Battalion is therefore in service in Kosovo in the autumn of 2001 at the same time as they are to be able to theoretically train a new quota on the Heistandmoen. As a solution to this problem, it has been assessed to order and add about. 140 orders which may carry out the training on Heistandmoen under quota VI. The consequence of assigning the required number of professional officers to Heistandmoen will be that the other training departments of the Army will be drained for professional officers and competences and that these officers will have to be replaced by engaged officers. The army lacks operational means to add 140 orders to the Heistandmoen next year. As an alternative, the Inspector-General of the Army has chosen to train quota VI in North Norway. North Norway offers several advantages. In North Norway, there is sufficient capacity to train quota VI as a continuous education. Infrastructural, material and competent conditions are well suited. The army in North Norway has a long experience and a high quality training standard, and is therefore fully capable of solving this task. Costlyly, the solution is good, because the Army has neither the means of operation nor the command to maintain production on the Heistandmoen when so many are in Kosovo. Training of forces to Kosovo from North Norway is nothing new. Today's quota III in Kosovo has been trained in Inner Troms. Professional management shall have the necessary powers to decide on the volume of training and the temporary place of training in order to establish satisfactory solutions, cost and quality. I do not see that the General Inspector General of the Army has forged changes to the future structure of the defence. These changes will beassessed on a several broader basis in the context of the long-termproposition. Providing the training assignment to North Norway for quota VI is a consequence of the deployment of the Telemark Battalion to Kosovo in the autumn of 2001. The Telemark Battalion at Heistandmoen will discharge our international obligations as an international exclamation force, the IRF, among others. during the period during which quota VI terminates training in Norway and is deployed to Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e815	There were many quota numbers here. The question must well be why the order from Heistandmoen is sent to Kosovo in order to conduct peacekeeping activities in the field of training for peace-building activities, such as quota I to Kosovo. Of course, my main question is about the future of Heistandmoen. I see this as a sign that, by referring to staff shortages, one is trying to advance treatment, based on the decision taken by the Stortinget in 1992/93 to add the Telemark Battalion to Heistandmoen. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of Defence to confirm that Heistandmoen is still in the assessment when the new structure is to be laid before the Defence. This is because the story goes on, and I have heard that the Heistandmo is zeroed out into the working groups that are now working, and that is contrary to the decision of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e822	When it comes to why we're now in this situation, I'm referring to the answer. So that's nothing new. It has happened before, according to an appropriateness consideration. But I repeat: this is not a pre-emption of the Great Government's forthcoming long-term proposal on Defence, and of course Heistandmoen is part of the assessment basis in future structure. It is true that the head of defence has reset the Heistandmoen, giving it a red spot on the map, but everything that has been given a red spot on the map is assessed and quality assured and reviewed on an independent basis in the ministry’s work. So here I can comfort the representative that nothing is decided in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e829	Then we go to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e835	This question, from Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment, is answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e838	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions that will be answered by the Minister for Defence: ‘In Hedmark and Uppland, 17 070 ovine animals are killed during the grazing season of the year. This is a quantity of meat equivalent to the annual consumption of 70,000 people. Does the Council of State consider 17 070 killed sheep to be an acceptable loss figure for the possession of predators in these two counties, or what figure does the Council of State seem to accept?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e847	Therefore, the compensation settlement for forest game damage to sheep has not yet been completed and the exact number of sheep being replaced as predatory game this year is not yet known. According to information provided by the Directorate of Nature Management, the sheep owners of Hedmark and Uppland have applied for compensation for 16,998 animals. This is around the same level as in 1998 and 1999. I can also add that 65-70 pst. the requested number of animals has been replaced as predatory game killed in the two counties in the last few years. Of course, I am in no way satisfied that a large number of sheep are injured or killed annually in those areas where we have populations of large predators. I also understand the strain the sheep owners are subjected to in this context. At the same time, it is not acceptable to eradicate predators in Norway in order to reduce the loss of sheep on the outback. This has been clearly confirmed by the bulk of the population in the treatment of wild game in 1997. The government has therefore undertaken a major effort to ensure both viable populations of the large predators and active agriculture exploiting herds. A stronger and more efficient management is being pursued, involving both the killing of predators and measures in the sheep population that can reduce predatory damage. In the revision of the State budget for 2000, the Government provided a briefing on the development of losses and the evaluation of preventive measures in the management of wild game. It was announced that in the future, the Ministry of the Environment will invest even more strongly in measures that distinguish bumps and predators in time and space. Jerven is responsible for a significant proportion of the forest game damage on a national basis and there is a core area for the species in the area to which the representative of Bredvold refers. The Ministry of the Environment aims to make changes in the management of the nitrogen industry in order to reduce losses and conflicts in relation to sheep farming and domestic farming. An evaluation of the management of winter 2000-2001 is being carried out, and among the issues to be evaluated, is the core area for yews in South Norway. Gaupe and bear also take some sheep both in the Hedmark/Oppland area and on a national basis. Fortunately, for wolves, the extent of damage has been limited in recent years thanks to extensive prevention measures. In summary, I can assure the representative of Bredvold that the Ministry of the Environment will continue to work to reduce the predatory damage to sheep within the framework of the predatory game management that Stortinget itself has laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e864	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was an answer I expected to get, unfortunately I almost have to say, that is an orientation without having to make a specific number. Does not the Council of State not see that it would be unfair to impose the burden on a more or less specific profession of predatory animal management, which otherwise wears out? If the authorities want such a large group of predators, with these buffalo losses, it is said straight away that the industry unfortunately has no future because of the growth potential of predators. Those who run a buffalo know that predators and buffalo can't live together without the losing party being buffed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e871	The representative repeated the request for a number. What are the acceptable losses, are there 17,000 sheep, is it half, or is it 10,000 sheep? I don't think he's had expectations about, even though the Environment Minister had been here, that there was such a number. Of course, it has to be driven down as far as possible, and it is not possible from this pulpit to present any figures in such a connection. It falls to my discretion on its own unreasonableness. However, I have a feeling that the representative is fundamentally in disagreement with the policy of the Storting itself in this area, and that is all right. But the government must therefore deal with the Storting's own way of dealing with this issue, and it requires us to try to develop a regime where we both have our big predators and can run effective agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e878	We go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e884	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Norway Tourist Council recently published a survey showing alarmingly little knowledge of Norway in many of the main foreign markets of travel. It underpins the central government’s strategy to focus more on long-term profiling and branding of Norway as a tourist destination. Has the Council taken note of the results of the investigation and does it agree that it demonstrates that travel life needs to be taken seriously and given increased attention from this Government as well?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e893	I have noticed with interest that the Norwegian Tourist Council together with 20 Norwegian travel businesses recently carried out the largest survey of Norway's reputation as a holiday country. The survey includes extensive interviews with 1 200 potential Norwegian tourists in some of our main foreign markets. The main conclusion is that Norway is perceived by many as an attractive holiday destination, but that it is a large group who believe Norway is not attractive because it is perceived as cold and boring. The main problem facing Norway as a destination is that about 64 pst. by the people who asked know little or nothing about our country. This includes, among other things: contributed to the recent loss of market shares by Norway internationally. While the first half of the 1990s saw a positive trend in the number of hotel guest days and tourists visiting Norway, growth slowed down in the last half of the 1990s and stagnated completely in 1999. The figures so far this year confirm this stagnation. I agree with the representative of Kongshaug that travel life needs to be taken seriously. This is fully in line with the recommendations of the Business Committee’s consideration of St.melding. No 15 for 1999-2000, the profitable and competitive tourism industries, in June this year. Here, a national IT portal for the tourism industry and increased focus on the branding of Norway as a travel destination were highlighted as important areas of action in international marketing. We have therefore chosen in the 2001 State Budget to prioritise the further development of a national Internet portal for travel, developed and operated by the Norwegian Tourism Council. I have been informed by the Tourist Council that this work is very challenging and resource-intensive, and that a first version of the portal may therefore be somewhat delayed compared to the original plans of the Norwegian Tourist Council. I am in close contact with the Tourist Council, and we prioritise the continuation of this important development work for Norwegian travel life in 2001. In addition to this, we also suggest that, in the future, the government grant for international travel promotion will focus more on profiling and branding Norway as a destination. The labelling shall contribute to the creation of interest in and attention to Norway and, when the interest is created, the Internet portal shall be the tool for providing concrete information and opportunities for the sale of travel life products and destinations. The initiative on the development of the IT portal and the profiling and branding of Norway clearly show that the Government gave the tourism industry a high priority, as it was a large majority in Stortinget when this case was discussed last.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e904	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. My question was justified in the investigation mentioned by the Council of State, and it was carried out as late as September this year. The conclusion was, as the Council of State said, that Norway is perceived as cold and boring, and this can be serious enough. But the most disturbing result of the survey is, as the Council of State was also concerned about, the low level of foreign knowledge in our country. Not even the Danes have a particular knowledge of Norway as a destination. When as many as 46 pst. by the Danes know little or nothing about Norway, and 48 pst. by the Americans and – the worst – 84 pst. of the British know little or nothing about the good neighbour they have in Norway, it is worrying about the development of travel life. My follow-up question is: could the Council of State discuss with the Travel Life Organisations an additional promise to respond to the lack of knowledge that exists in our neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e913	We would like to discuss a joint promise with the travel organisations. At the same time, it is also appropriate to stress that there are quite a number of agencies responsible for profiling Norway. We can talk about both the Export Council, our companies that are out, and our embassies, who are doing an excellent job. But precisely when we have such an investigation as this on the table, we should see that coordinating the forces might now be very urgent, so that there are no different strategies for the different agencies, but rather coordinate much more also this profile, in line with what the Tourist Council is now putting up with, among other things. in the case of the branding of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e921	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The Maritime Directorate will now, after the ‘Sleipner’ accident, impose more stringent requirements for the training of speedboat drivers. A particularly important item here is simulator training. The mound in Ålesund is far ahead when it comes to simulator training. They have requested three departments to offer a quick boat simulator but received no. Will the Council of State take the initiative to establish such an offer as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e930	On 26 November it is one year since the speedboat «Sleipner» sank at the Ryvarden lighthouse north of Haugesund. The Ministry of Justice established, as known on 1 December last year, a commission of inquiry to investigate the accident. The accident Commission report, published on 8 November of this year, made a thorough effort to confirm reasons and propose solutions so that accidents such as the one with the «Sleipner» will not occur again. The government is now discussing the follow-up to the "Sleipner" report. The recommendations of the Commission cover a wide range of areas affecting several governments, and the Directorate for Maritime Affairs has also addressed the areas of responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The recommendations will be carefully assessed by all departments, which will also assess the measures necessary for follow-up. In the case of quick boat simulator training, a proposal has been submitted by the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs to consult on the change of qualification requirements, the issue of certificates and the licensing rights on Norwegian ships. Among other things, this includes: mandatory simulator training as part of an approved quick boating course for navigators. This proposal is in line with the Commission of Inquiry's view that simulator training is part of compulsory training for fast boat navigators. The University of Ålesund has the focal point function of the Norwegian Higher Education Network and research institutions in the field of maritime operations in coastal and offshore supply activities. In the development of today’s university simulators, they also have innovative low-price solutions for visual simulation. I think that is very positive. Per. Today there is one civil fast boat simulator in Norway. This is Ship Manoeuvring Simulator Center, SMS, in Trondheim. In addition, there is also a corresponding equipment at Haakonsverk station of the Maritime Defence Agency. An assessment of the need for any new simulators is now under preparation in the departments concerned. But I want to say that I know for myself that the job is done at the University of Ålesund, and I know that these are demands made by the commission of inquiry, which are also included in the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs' own report.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e945	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and especially with regard to the last remark, I would like to thank you for a positive response. To the council of state was well this to go as far as one could wait. There are two things in particular that make this matter topical, and that are the background to the question I am asking today. One is that, according to the Directorate for Maritime Affairs, simulator training is now mandatory both in the case of initial training and in the case of refresher training of fast boat drivers. The second is the special environment that we have in Ålesund, and, as the Council of State itself had in mind, this is that there is a hub in the area of maritime operations in coastal and offshore/supply. Where capacity is involved, it is clear that the new requirements currently imposed will lead to a need for greater capacity when a simulator is owed on the speedboat side of Norway. I have two small questions for follow-up: what time can we wait for this to be clarified? And then I hope the Council of State agrees with me that Ålesund will have a very special place when it comes to the possible location of a new offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e954	I can't give a clear answer as to when we can come back, because this is about follow-up in several areas, like the follow-up to the Research Commission, and it's about several departments. In addition, the representative is aware that the Maritime Directorate has also delivered its specific follow-up programmes. It is true that the Maritime Director underlines very strongly the need for simulator training, because it provides a complete training, where one has to take responsibility not only for the purely technical things, but also for unforeseen things that can happen when one is in a difficult situation. It does make this enough one of the important areas to discuss, and in this way I just have to say that so far I am in favour of the question that the representative has raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e959	Questions 8 and 9 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e965	I have this question for the Minister of Culture: ‘In the processing of the voluntary service, Stortinget agreed that 10 pst. the means of sport and culture are intended for local work among children and young people. These funds shall be in addition to the ordinary appropriations of the municipalities and the Storting. While sport gets its own, voluntary cultural, children's and youth organisations don't get their 10 pst. through Freefonds. Nevertheless, in an interview in NRK P2, the Ministry of State believes that the Government is following up the Storting decision. Do the Council of State agree with this assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e974	For the sake of order: the decision of the Grand Duchy concerning the voluntary notification was based on the allocation model of the grant scheme for voluntary activities for children and young people and not on the size of the grant scheme. Proposals for the allocation model were promoted in St.prp. No 61 for 1999-2000, and no comments were made on the proposal during the course of the Grand Duchy. It has also been my aim that the culturally-based scheme for children and young people should be at the same level as the sport-based scheme, i.e. in the order of magnitude, I suppose, 80 million. kr per. years. Why the rate of disparity in the structure of the schemes has been explained by the government at that time in the Ministry of Culture's budget proposal for 2000. It appeared that when Norsk Tipping AS took over the Norwegian Penglottery, Flax, at the turn of the year 1998-99, a proceeds increase in the pooling of the games corresponding to 1/3 of Penglottery's Flax surplus, while the merger was implemented neutrally for cultural and research purposes, i.e. the Ministry of Culture’s budget was not provided with any additional money as a result. The current government further indicated that the launch of the game ‘game on the playing card’ would provide an economic basis for such a new grant scheme for voluntary local activities for children and young people on the cultural side. It was stated that the establishment and construction of the new grant scheme must take place gradually over a few years and that the Ministry will return to the follow-up to the call for voluntary action on the cultural side in the 2001 budget. In the light of the Government's proposals in St.prp. No 61 for 1999-2000, cf. Opinion of the Committee on Budgets. In the period 1999-2000, Stortinget granted a total of 20 million. SEK for the establishment of the scheme in 2000, of which SEK 7.6 million. kr on the Ministry of Culture's budget and 12.4 million. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs' budget. According to forecasts from Norsk Tipping, there is no real growth in the 2000 gambling surplus, so the Ministry of Culture's 2001 budget proposal has not been added to the surplus. However, in the draft budget, the government has proposed to escalate the scheme to a total of 30 million. kr. As a result of the budgetary compromise between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, the scheme is proposed to go up to 70 million further. 2001 kr. In this way, equality between the two schemes is far on the way. Nor is there any doubt that the Government has followed up the Storting decision in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e991	I thank you for your answer. It was clarifying what has been going on so far. I want to insist that the Storting decided that 10 pst. the revenue from the gaming culture envisaged shall be allocated to local activity. That's what Stortinget did because the Stortinget joined the mission of the department as it appeared in the message. I understand that non-governmental organisations in culture have felt cheated when they have to go round to get out the 10 pst. to Frifond, which has been agreed on subsequently. I was worried when I heard the interview with the State Secretary, where he said the department uses much more than 10 pst. to children and young people. It was supposed to be just missing, but it's about not mixing the cards here. Thus, the size had an intention that these funds should be added to the ordinary appropriations of the Storting and the municipalities in connection with the voluntary service. I therefore have the following questions to the Council of State: Does she understand that Storting's decision on 10 p.m. of the surplus for culture to go directly to Freefonds for distribution? And will she make sure that this is followed up later?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1003	As I said earlier, it has been my aim that the cultural subsidy scheme should rise to the same level as the sport-based grant scheme. Whether the escalation occurs at the level of the games, to which there is considerable uncertainty, or whether it is financed in the ordinary way, is subordinated. The main thing must be that the money is coming. The government will come back with this in the budget for 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1013	‘After 40 years of scheduled flights to Røros, Braathen will leave the route from 2 January 2001. It will have a very negative impact on industry throughout the mountain region, and not least on the tourism industry. This is the lifeblood of the entire Røros district. This is what this is about. For Røros, it is essential that long-term solutions are now found that ensure a good flight offer. At the same time as Braathens are struggling heavily, the domestic air passenger charge is greatly increased. What initiatives will the Council of State take to ensure Røros a good flight offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1020	Like all other routes not already covered by a tendering contract, the route is open to all EEA carriers wishing to fly it. In other words, other companies are free to start scheduled flights to/from Røros if they so wish. In the case of continued commercial scheduled service at Røros, I suggest that the airline's discount scheme for the arrival of Røros Airport will be continued. On the basis of the fact that Røros will remain without an air route offer if no one else takes over when Braathens leaves his route on 2 January 2001, I will make further assessments of the overall transport standard for the Røros area, with and without an air route. In the light of these assessments, the Government will make its recommendation on whether or not to purchase air route services by the State. If such purchases are to be made, it will be necessary to make public regular EEA offers, similar to those used, inter alia, to: most of the short-haul routes in Norway. Tenders require that no one will fly commercially. As a tendering process will take some time to complete, in this case I will consider temporary solutions so that there will be an air offer to/from Røros after 2 January 2001. A government purchase of services solution would require appropriations in addition to the amount proposed by the Government in the 2001 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1027	There were many assessments here. First, consider how to deal with a situation where Røros is left unsolicited in the longer term, and then the Council of State will consider whether to do something in the short term. Has not the Ministry and the Council of State done anything more than make an assessment? I had hoped that the council here today would have been able to give a clear answer, that it is totally unacceptable that the mountain region should stay standing without a flight offer like Braathens. I hope that the Council of State against Stortinget can now clarify a little further what his political position is in this matter. Does the Government and the Council of State think it is right to have a flight offer on Røros? Does the Council of State think that it is just an assessment? And finally, what does the Council of State think about the strange passenger charges? Except 40 pst. of what you pay for an airline ticket to Røros, goes straight into the state treasury. Shouldn't the special airline passenger fee be abolished? Then several route offers had become profitable, and several had taken flights.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1036	As I said in my main response, I would like to add that there will be an air route offer to/from Røros after 2 January 2001. However, it is necessary to make assessments, including: with regard to the obligations and rights existing in relation to the EEA Agreement, in order to establish whether there are any persons who wish to fly the route commercially before entering into State instruments. With regard to the air passenger charge, this is a long-standing fee for which ESA is required to find other arrangements. I have also seen in the Right Alternative Budget that there is a level of charges that is slightly lower. At the same time, there is no VAT reform, and thus air traffic would not be significantly relieved by the government's draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1043	President, a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1050	The obvious misunderstanding will probably require the representative to include the Council of State at a different ratio.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1056	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘The health politicians in More and Romesdal, as Braathen’s announcements from Molde and Kristiansund, will make it almost impossible for patients to get to the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. Additional charges and other costs are strongly involved in these cuts. Whenever they see the serious impact of this, both in the health sector and in other areas, what initiatives will the Council of State take to counteract these unfortunate developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1065	I have gone through the new timetables presented by Braathens to Molde and Kristiansund. The Molde-Trondheim route is maintained with three daily departures, all of which become direct and thus provide shorter travel time than before. This route must be said to be a good offer to Trondheim. Travelers from Kristiansund should also have the opportunity to use it. I also note that Kristiansund has a good quick boat offer for Trondheim. As mentioned in the answer to question 11 from the representative Burnde, it is free of access for other carriers to the flight routes concerned. Other airlines can thus also enter the route Kristiansund-Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1072	I thank you for your answer. There will be a lot to answer in a minute, even in relation to the previous question – if I am allowed to do so – because it is a little bit different. This having a flight offer, especially between Kristiansund and Trondheim, is important. Quickboot is a replacement, but not a good replacement. It is said that other companies will be able to enter this box, but then with smaller planes and only with one departure daily. That's not good enough! What I want to achieve is this with the framework conditions for routes in District Norway, which I represent. They are, as I said earlier today, not good enough. The Minister of Transport should have looked a little closer to what Right has proposed – and I am forced to comment briefly. He says that the passenger fee has existed for a long time, but there is no reason to keep it. It's imposed on us, but it didn't apply to the level. Right will reduce the levy this year, and we also have proposals for her to wind up in two years. Can the Council of State agree that this will benefit Utang-Noreg?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1081	I fully agree that the air route offers are very important, not least in District Norway – be it in More and Romesdal or in other districts. When it comes to the question of this special route, I will continue to wait, among other things. the commercial interest that has been shown and that we have seen some press review of. As far as passenger charges are concerned, I have recorded in what has been presented for the time being by Højre's alternative budget proposal that such a charge of 116 kroner should be organised, as opposed to the Government's proposal of 128 kroner. At the same time, it is proposed to postpone VAT reform. For the airlines, there is a proposal for a zero rate on the part of the Government, which will make savings for the airlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1090	President! Governments repeated the same error for the second time. Can I correct that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1097	The President believes that this is probably a political correction, and we get to take it at a different rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1110	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘They notified the closures of Braathen’s routes have caused confusion in the areas concerned. Will the Council of State take an initiative to look at the possibilities for smaller private companies to provide a profitable grid, for example in the form of a «milk route» Gardermoen-Tynset-Leirin-Vigra-Gardermoen?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1119	As mentioned in my answer to question 11 from the representative Burnde, it is free for all airlines from all over the EEA to start routes on those routes that are not already covered by a tender contract. Thus, apart from the fact that the Tynset airport is for non-public use and that the Leirin-Gardermoen route is covered by tender, it is already free for everyone to start up the outlined route solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1124	Thanks for the answer. The Council of State has studied the Höre alternative state budget, so I think he knows that we support the Government's proposal regarding VAT reform, and that we have proposed to wind up all airline passenger charges in two years. In the context of the Council of State responses — which in themselves are not uninteresting — it is interesting whether he can agree to use the air passenger charges in a process to see if it is possible to obtain profitable flights within the areas concerned. If you're talking about Tynset or you're talking about Røros, you're not interested in the mountain region. These airports, mainly Røros, are perceived as airports for an entire region. And then the next question. Firstly, will the Council consider using air passenger charges in a process to make it more likely that it will be possible to obtain commercially profitable routes? Secondly, will the Council of State take an initiative – that is what I am asking for – to ensure that these tenders come, so that you can actively contribute to the provision of a profitable route?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1133	If I had seen any error in the VAT reform, it would of course be clear in the further treatment of the State budget. As far as air passenger charges are concerned, it is obvious that we have a limitation in relation to the ESA legislation that we have to take into account, regardless of whether we are talking about these mentioned airports or other airports. With regard to the issue of the impact of airport charges, we have said in the proposal for a State budget that the impact could lead to a greater need for the State to purchase services, and that was also what I suggested in my main answer to question 11 from the representative Burnde.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1145	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The Fisheries Directorate has decided to move the Fisheries Director of North Hordland’s office in Knarvik to Bergen. Knarvik is a region centre in Northern Hordland, and the relocation is more remote from most operators in the fisheries and farming industries in Northern Hordland. Does the Council of State think this corresponds to the clear signals given by the Stortinget in the context of the repeal of the laws on guidance services in the fishing industry, of the emphasis on geographical proximity to the fishing environment and the accessibility of the users?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1154	The overall objective of fisheries management is to use scarce resources in a way that provides the best possible service to users. On the basis of this, the external level has been working for a long time to co-locate the different functions. In addition to resource savings with common premises and administration, reasonable computer solutions through fewer data lines, the external sector by creating larger units of multi-employers will bring together a wider range of competences in one location. This will provide a better and more stable service to users. Modern communication with faster and more efficient travel modes and the ability to communicate electronically make users less dependent on having an offer in immediate physical proximity. In the specific case mentioned in the question, it is a question of moving a fisheries law leader to a wider and wider professional environment in the Bergen Centre. The transfer will result in savings in renting office premises and a more reasonable computer solution. The distance between the current location and Bergen is approx. 20 minutes by car. In the light of the above, the benefits, including for users, appear to be obvious, without substantially weakening the availability.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1167	In the view of the Left, it is wrong that one is now in favour of a reduction in the external fishing nets. The idea was that someone would come back to this. The Minister for Fisheries is talking about scarce resources. But we know that in Knarvik it is an active business environment that also has co-location with district veterinarians. The Regional Council of the region considers this to be quite dramatic because it results in a reduced supply of the active fishing environment that is there. It was also said from the majority that a wanted to evaluate experimentation schemes, such as: County/municipalities took over part of these services and saw it in conjunction with other economic developments. Will the Minister for Fisheries look at this in a new light if there is an application for a regional office? I think it's a shame that a person is talking about scarce resources, because this means a reduced supply in a very active environment, where there are also great opportunities for development. And it's also not in line with the Storting signal. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1183	Now it's also a reduced offer of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1186	I believe that we have an autonomous duty to ensure that all our resources used in the public sector are used in the best possible way. I accept that there is an active fishing environment in Knarvik, but it must be reasonably clear that there is also a large and active fishing environment in Bergen, of which the operators in Knarvik are also part, because it is as close as it is. With regard to the possibilities for the county to take over these services, it is, to a large extent, an interesting idea, but quite complicated, because the external fishing conditions need to be able to draw all resources on different tasks. Not least in these days, it is important to be able to dispose of the resources, for example: for resource monitoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1196	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘In 1995, the coastal charge for bow-loaders was increased from 750 kroner to 75 000 kroner per call. The fee has been further increased. As a result, calls from bending cargo ships in Åmøyfjorden outside Stavanger have fallen significantly, even if the bending cargo fleet is more than doubled. The industry in the Stavanger area has lost millions annually, and the port services have lost their call fee. In view of this, will the Council of State consider reintroducing the scheme in force before 1995?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1205	The Ministry of Fisheries manages three different coastal fees: Pilot fee, which covers the costs of the pilot service, general coastal fee, which covers 30 pst. the costs of the fire and tagging services, and the safety charges, which cover the costs of the traffic centres. The introduction of the new loco-coastal charging system from 1 May 1995 removed some of the former exemptions from the charging of unloading fees and general coastal charges from the regulations. This applies, for example, to: exemptions from ships not calling at a Norwegian port or ships engaged on transit voyages which are intended solely for the supply of marine resources or the disembarkation of crews. The removal of the exemption was, among other things: made in the light of the principle of a cost-orientated design of the fees set out in the Losing Act, and that such exemptions from the fees could not be justified on the basis of cost considerations. Changes in the obligation to pay for convoy ships and all other shipping services on the Norwegian coast before and after 1995 have to be seen in the light of the change in the unloading system, which was established this year through new rules for both unloading and unloading. The reform included, inter alia: the imposition of obligations on shipping, not for defence reasons, but for security of life, values and environment, as in the past. In other words, the obligation of unloading derives from the risk a ship represents for those values in Norwegian internal waters. In addition, there is a defined principle in the Losing Act that the distribution of the disbursement costs between the different user groups should be as far as possible in relation to the costs they incur, i.e. a cost liability principle. This has meant that the difference in fees between sailing with and without unloading has now become greater than in the past. Furthermore, new legislation is designed to ensure that ships are either obliged to use a certificate of fairway or to use a certificate of fairway, which is also liable, i.e.: the same vessels that seize the unloading service. Both relationships include: as a result of which the charging of a ship no longer takes account of the cause of a ship's call to the Norwegian port, but focuses on the risk involved and the costs incurred and the obligation to provide the unloading service. This principle applies to all three State coastal charges. As a result, the rates are the same, whether a tanker arrives in Norwegian ports for regular unloading or loading, crew shifts, bunkering, workshop stays or waiting for new assignments. This is because the overall risk situation is the same and the use of official navigation aids is the same. A change towards discounted charges for the calls made by the bending loads in Åmøyfjorden will have consequences for other aspects of the charging system, and will allow for other specific considerations to be taken into account by discount and exemption schemes. This will erode the basic principles on which the applicable charging system is based. In addition, the handling charges are also based on a principle of self-financing, which means that a reduction for one type of call must be compensated for by other types of calls and thus shift costs to other operators in the industry. In St.meld. No 47 for 1998-99, On the evaluation of the unemployment and unemployment benefit system, a number of measures are mentioned that aim to make the unemployment service more cost-effective and the fees more cost-oriented. This may contribute to a reduction in the overall fees charged to the maritime industry, thereby increasing the competitiveness of the industry. I believe that as part of the follow-up work with St. meld nr. 47 Rather, a fundamental assessment of the charging system should be made on a general basis than an examination of individual exemption schemes. The follow-up to this pilot report is a high priority in the Ministry of Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1224	I find it hard to imagine that it costs society 75 000 kroner for a ship to call at a Norwegian port. There can be no doubt that after 1995, the new scheme has led to a number of side effects that could not have been considered. It may not have been the intention of businesses in Stavanger to lose an estimated 25 million. kr per. half-yearly, and that the Port Service would lose significant tax revenue. Moreover, the high charges that lead to ships not calling at Norwegian ports will also lead to a loss of coastal fees. My follow-up question will be whether the Council of State will at least address the problem and reduce charges in general so strongly that more ships are being made to use these services. In fact, even though there is a lower tax rate per person, an increase in income can be achieved. Calls.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1231	I agree with the representative Simonsen that it is important that coastal fees and all other fees are as low as possible. However, the most important thing to achieve this is that we develop a pilot service that is as efficient as possible. In the old system where there were some types of calls that were lower in priority when it came to charges, there was actually a subsidisation of these from the other users. This is unfortunate. The most important thing is that we get to an efficient and cheap unloading system, and that's what the stas council will always be concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1240	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Coastal Directorate has indicated that they wish to move the loading station at Hålsser in the outer Oslofjord to Horten, despite the fact that the pilots believe this is unwise for safety reasons. What is the position of the Council of State on this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1249	As a cost-effective measure, the Coastal Directorate has considered moving the unloading field from Fäder to the waters of Horten. The waters between Hwsser and Horten are open and easy to operate. The assessments have been made as a result of the requirement to reduce the costs of unloading in this area and to make better use of state unemployment. The Coastal Directorate considers that safety will continue to be ensured even if the relocation is carried out. The establishment of the traffic centre in Horten has also made demands from the shipping industry that this new safety measure must have an impact on the total cost of the shipping in Oslofjorden for unloading and safety fees. Initially, the deployment of the central traffic centre and its associated safety fees entail an additional cost for shipping. In this context, it is appropriate to consider whether the deployment of the traffic control centre and its associated safety fee can help to reduce measures in other areas. In this way, it is avoided that the charging burden becomes excessive and that it is paid for overlapping services. However, it is assumed that safety will be established at the same level in the event of any change to the system. The impact of this measure has been estimated by the Coastal Directorate to provide a total savings of about 10 %. Eight million. kr. The shipping will be subject to a fee reduction of approx. Six million. kr, while the savings for the Coastal Works will be approx. Two million. kr. The measure has not yet been implemented because, inter alia, it: requires an additional mark on the fairway. In addition, it is desirable to gain experience with new services from the Horten traffic centre. Therefore, no decision has been taken as to whether the measure should be implemented and, where appropriate, when it should be implemented. My position on the matter is that the various security measures need to be seen in the context of the fire services, pilotage services, traffic centres and electronic navigation aids. In this way, we can find the portfolio of security measures that most cost-effectively satisfy a strict requirement for security.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1262	I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State is focusing on costs, but when this, in my opinion, goes beyond security, I am very concerned. I would like to point out a report by Veritas, on behalf of the Coastal Directorate, on the so-called evaluation of the fairgrounds in Oslofjorden. I allow myself to read the following from this report: ‘Some users ask some questions about the competence of traffic controllers’ in Horten. ‘It is claimed that they have sailed little or that they have been sailing for a long time. Their ability to address a critical situation is therefore limited. Sometimes some strange instructions from the central bank are given. Limitation of competence will primarily result if the unloading field is moved. According to users, not all traffic controllers will be able to provide adequate navigation guidance on the voyage into Bastø.’ I must be allowed to ask the Council of State whether he wants to say something in relation to the economy on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1274	As mentioned in my first response, the measure has not been implemented. There is a need to ‘acquire experience of new services from the Horten traffic centre’. I am in the same way as the representative Width is concerned about security, and can assure that if it provides a basis for concluding that safety is not adequately ensured by changing this boarding block, this will not be done either. But let me say at the same time that I am concerned that we should save costs for the entire unloading service, and I am convinced that it is possible to do this without jeopardising safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1284	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The Directorate for Fisheries has launched a pilot project for pooling quotas for coastal fleet vessels. Why are only boats of Group I invited to attend, while boats without vessel allowances, boats of Group II, are kept outside?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1293	We're going to start a test project with an aggregate quota north of 62oN in 2001. In the first place, we have chosen to limit the aggregate quota model to cod, hay and seine. We want to explore the form of regulation so that vessels can make the most of their resources in the most rational way possible. For example, a vessel from an area where there is a high incidence of seas shall be able to fish with the aggregate quota model. The system can make everyday life easier for many, while also leading to more even deliveries to the country side. However, the system also has its weak side. Different market values may result in one species of fish being overfished in relation to the set quotas based on biological advice, if we do not take measures to prevent this. One measure will be to convert the catch into so-called equivalents. If this measure is sufficient, it is difficult to say something about it before we gain experience from the project. Therefore, it is important that we first try out the model on a relatively small group of vessels. In order to be able to identify positive and negative aspects of the model, we have chosen to implement a project where approx. 175 vessels are involved. These vessels are from Group I, and we will try to spread the participation both in terms of vessel size and geography. The fact that precisely Group I vessels were selected is due to the fact that these vessels are usually the most active. One point of the project is to see how the fish pattern is in practice on the different species, in different parts of the country. As Group II vessels have less quota than Group I vessels, the fishing pattern could be somewhat different for this group. The participation of group I vessels only gives a clearer picture of how the fishing pattern becomes for the most active vessels under the aggregate quota model. However, the fact that only Group I vessels participate in the pilot project does not mean that the model could not be an alternative form of regulation also for Group II in the future. Experience we acquire from the project will be used to assess whether the scheme can be suitable for other groups in recent years. The interest in the project is great. ==References== 800 vessels want to participate, and the Directorate of Fisheries has an extensive job of extracting vessels from the registered vessels, even though the project covers only group I vessels. If the aggregate quota model is the regulation of the coastal fleet in the future, I will not speculate on today. However, I look forward to the project being launched at the turn of the year, and will follow developments closely. I am concerned that fishermen will be able to fish as rationally as possible, and this applies to all groups of vessels. But I am also concerned that our resources should be managed properly, including that set fishing quotas should not be overfished. Adequate resource management is essential in order to achieve better value creation in the fisheries industry in the future – a value creation that will benefit individual fishermen, coastal communities and society as such. It is therefore very important that the aggregate quota model be further investigated before testing on a larger part of the fleet, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1319	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I think there is reason to praise the government that they have seen a good and, I believe, sensible project that can facilitate the problem of by-catching and fishing in different areas of our country and in relation to how fishing is years about others. I also thought there was a good reason for one to stay within Group I in the first place. It's obvious that the project is popular. An application for this project may have been much larger than one, since 800 boats want to be there and there is only 175 in the first place. So I don't envy the directorate when they're going to pick 175, of 800. I just want to confirm – that is to the extent that I believe the Council of State – that if the project is successful and is a way of regulating coastal fishing, Group II will assess by means of any permanent scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1328	I can assure you that if it turns out that this is a successful action and we conclude that there is probably also a reasonable way to regulate the Group II boats, this will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1336	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘During the session of the Nordic Council on Iceland on 6 and 8 November 2000, Iceland informed its Minister for the Environment, Siv Frileifsdóttir that Iceland would start up again in the near future with a strenuous catch within the framework of resilient coughing. Will the Norwegian Government support Iceland's decision, and in the international forums speak Iceland's case?'
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1345	Norway is a strong supporter of the principle of sustainable use of natural resources. The Norwegian whaling is precisely based on a desire to operate a sustainable management of marine resources based on scientific facts and the need for multi-population management. Species and populations requiring protection must be protected. However, it is also essential to exploit, within the necessary limits, stocks that can withstand harvesting. The different species in the ecosystem must be seen in a coherent way. As a top predator in the sea, the marine mammals eat a lot of fish. Sea mammals cannot grow freely in a system otherwise subject to targeted management. On a general basis, I will therefore support an Icelandic decision to conduct sustainable whale harvesting. However, I would point out that Norway — so far — has chosen to work for the sustainable management of whales within the International Whaling Commission, IWC. However, the IWC has evolved into a pure protection organisation, which does not base its decisions on scientific principles. This is contrary to the Treaty legal basis of the Whaling Commission. For us, the results of the IWC Scientific Committee have been of central importance, as opposed to the purely political decisions of the Commission itself. At the same time, Norway has placed great emphasis on committed international cooperation and has therefore chosen to work for solutions within the IWC. That we want to focus on the Norwegian interests in the further work in the whale case must be obvious. That doesn't mean you can't give support to other countries that have similar interests. Finally, I would like to point out that the management of marine mammals must also be seen in a regional perspective. Here I would like to refer to the cooperation that is currently established with Iceland in the North Atlantic Maritime Animal Commission, NAMCO.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1358	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I sturge his foundation for this with the resilient hoarding of marine mammals. I am also pleased that he answered positively my question about stowing Iceland's decision and will try to get political grips, especially in the qualifying commission IWC, for a resilient coughing is sensible and environmentally friendly, and to save fish stocks further. It's also very much in line with Iceland's way of running through Norway. I simply asked the Icelandic Minister for the Environment during the Nordic Council's session if they would support Norway if we were to make decisions in the fall to open the way for exports of the qualifying product, and then the Icelandic Minister for Cooperation, who was Siv Frileifsdóttir, replied that she would. And that is why I look forward to working together between Norway and Iceland in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1370	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Finnmark and Nordland County Council have required to be represented in the consultation round in connection with the negotiations of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. They've been denied. On the other hand, commercial interests, especially the sea fishing fleet, are strongly represented. What is the reason why highly fishing-dependent states are not allowed to take part in the consultation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1379	Following the presentation by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, of its quota recommendations, the Ministry of Fisheries, as it is known, is holding a preparatory meeting prior to the annual fisheries agreement negotiations with other countries. The competent authorities responsible for the management of fisheries and the trade organisations on behalf of the interested parties, who are fishermen and the fishing industry, shall participate. The trade organisations participating in the preparatory meeting are the Norwegian Fisheries Association, the Norwegian Maritime Association and the Norwegian Fisheries Association. Representatives of these organisations also participate in the delegations during the quota negotiations themselves. Thus, it is not provided for any form of geographical representation through municipalities or county municipalities, but rather for a functional representation through business organisations. The background to this is that the fisheries authorities manage national resources responsible for the management and further development of the fishing industry along the entire Norwegian coast. However, I would like to point out that, through the Norwegian Fisheries Team, regional representation is indirectly given in the context of quota negotiations. The layer of fish represents fishermen from all parts of the industry, and is made up of state-owned layers where specific regional considerations are expressed. The involvement of fisheries organisations has been important to ensure the legitimacy of the regulatory decisions that need to be established in the light of the quotas set. This accountability is crucial for cooperation between industry and the authorities. The agreed understanding of the challenges and problems of quota policy distinguishes Norwegian practical fisheries policy from most other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1392	First of all, with the business interests. I see that bit, that it gives legitimacy and makes the stakeholder organisations responsible. At the same time, I have to say that when you look at the composition, you will see that there is a clear overweight towards the interests of the marine fishermen in relation to the coastal fishermen, by the fact that the leader of the Fiskerlag is neutral. In addition to that, the coastal fishermen are represented by one and the sea fishing side by three. I think that might be an unfortunate twist. So to what was the starting point for my question, the states that have asked to be represented. I can see that it may be difficult to let the counties be represented, but there is another possibility. There's a district committee that represents the whole of Northern Norway plus the North Trøndelag, and it's that part of the country that is very dependent on the management of these national resources, yes, it's totally dependent on it. Is the Minister for Fisheries willing to open up the possibility of representing the National Subcommittee?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1403	I am pleased that the representative Myrvoll also realises the need for us to make Norwegian fishing organisations responsible. It actually makes the fisheries management in Norway better than it would have been if they were not represented, as experienced in other countries. Norway's Fiskarlag chooses its trustees. Those representing the Norwegian Fisheries Team represent, in principle, all fishermen in the country. There is no one in this system that is neutral. I agree that in North Norway there is a greater dependence on these resources than in the rest of the country. But I would nevertheless stress that there are very many fishermen from all parts of the country who are participating in these fisheries, and it would be unreasonable if a regional representation could not take all of these into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1415	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Norwegian negotiating position of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission is kept secret. At the same time, it has been reported through the media that in large parts of the 90s, the Norwegian position has been higher than recommended by researchers. Is this correct and what is the reason why the Norwegian negotiating position is not published?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1424	Cod, hyse and soldering in the Barents Sea are known as common populations for Norway and Russia. On that basis, the parties have common interests in ensuring good management of those stocks. However, it is clear that Norway and Russia may also have different views on the nature of the Barents Sea resource management and differing considerations in relation to the prevailing conditions at home. On that basis, Norway and Russia are also counterparties to a negotiating situation during the annual meetings of the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission for the purpose of determining the quotas. Prior to the annual quota negotiations, the Ministry of Fisheries holds a preparatory meeting. This is where the scientific advice of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea on the quota level for the following year and negotiating positions are discussed. The participants in this meeting are representatives of the Ministry of Fisheries, the Directorate of Fisheries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Environment, the Institute of the Marine Research, Fisheries Research, the Norwegian Fisheries Act, the Landsforening of the Fisheries and Maritime Industries, the Norwegian Maritime Association and the Coast Guard. In the light of these discussions, the negotiating mandates shall be drawn up. During the negotiations themselves, trade representatives are also members of the Norwegian delegation. Taking the fishing industry into account in advance of the negotiations and represented in the negotiating delegations, the Norwegian parties are given the opportunity to express their views on the strategies that will be used in the negotiations and on the solutions that must be considered acceptable prior to the conclusion of agreements. The negotiators of the fisheries management are responsible for ensuring Norwegian interests as far as possible. It would, of course, be unfortunate and could have a negative impact on the outcome if the counterparty became aware of negotiating strategies and mandates in advance. The current system of consultation and participation from the fishing industry is thus an attempt to ensure information and influence in the negotiations for the parties concerned, while ensuring the integrity of the negotiating management. With regard to what has been Norwegian negotiating positions in the quota negotiations with Russia, it will also be problematic to deal with what they have had in detail in terms of content, both of strategic considerations in relation to the counterparty, and also of the fact that the negotiating mandates are decided by a number of different state councils for which I cannot express my opinion on behalf of. However, I would like to end by pointing out that in negotiations with Russia this year, an overall objective has been to achieve a cod quota that ensures that the fish pressure is reduced and the spawning stock is built up in order to implement the management strategy adopted by the Commission. The result of the negotiations, which implies an annual cod quota of 395 000 tonnes per year over the following three years. years, will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1441	The Minister's response was a little daunting. Norway participates in a number of international negotiations, on the environment, the WTO, etc., and we have a social debate on this. It is not like keeping Norwegian positions hidden in retrospect. This is what the Minister for Fisheries said in the previous question was national resources. It is not a matter of a game between the parties, either between Norway and Russia or the parties involved in consultations and present in the delegations during negotiations. This is about national resources to be conserved. Therefore, it is totally unacceptable that a political debate on the Norwegian position cannot be held – at least afterwards – whether it is sound on the basis of resource conditions. And that's why I don't get a response to what has been the Norwegian position. Now we have an agreement, after this question was written, which – as far as I know – is approx. 50 pst. on the recommendations of the researchers. In addition, when it comes to what has been cheated, I ask: is this a responsible resource policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1452	There's no reason in any way for you to be startled by the answer I just gave. The negotiations we conduct with Russia are largely conducted on the same basis each year. We have things that we disagree about, we have different strategies that are applied, and it will be possible to read from what we have as a starting point, how we think about how you can position yourself in relation to us next year. Moreover, every year we report to the Stortinget the outcome of all international negotiations. I believe that the cod quota set for this year is a milestone. It's a milestone because we've been accepted to set a long-term quota for cod. This quota is lower than the one we have had in recent years and represents clear administrative progress for cod stocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1468	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘In the context of the globalisation of the communication of perspectives for the fisheries industry in spring 1999, the Government was asked to propose financial instruments to stimulate increased fleet replacement rates. The central government announced a follow-up in spring 2000. The new government has not followed this up, although the need for replacement has grown further. Will the State Council follow up the decision of the Trustee, for example in the form of tax provisions that stimulate equity-building in shipping companies?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1477	In my opinion, there are several points that argue against introducing specific tax rules for the fishing fleet. Specific tax rules for an individual sector break with a central principle of tax reform on the maximisation of fiscal non-discrimination between investments and industries. Tax-specific measures for the fishing fleet will contribute to the binding of resources in the industry which, for the part, could provide better returns in other activities. The tax system will also become more complex and unintended if specific rules are established for individual industries. A special fund provision, as the representative of Kongshaug mentions, will primarily fall to those fishermen who already have good profitability and who should already have funds for fleet renewal. The measure will therefore not be accurate according to those parts of the fleet where any problems of low fleet renewal may exist. In these circumstances, the government has not found it appropriate to use tax legislation to promote fleet renewal. This does not mean that we are not concerned about this issue. This year's fisheries agreement has set at 30 million. kr for the contemplation of fishing vessels. Within the current total of 120 million. In the case of fishing aid, this must be regarded as a significant amount. These are funds that will help to take older ships into the fleet and thus extend the operating base of the remaining fleet and provide a better economic basis for the operation of new fishing vessels. I would also like to draw attention to the protocol of the year's aid agreement, where agreement has been expressed between the State and the industry at the Norwegian Fiskerlag that: ‘there is still a need to adapt the capacity of the fishing fleet to the resource base. It is therefore important to continue work on capacity-reducing measures. The Parties will cooperate in designing measures to reduce fishing fleet capacity and will allocate structural schemes financed by food-funded schemes, using public funds and their combination. The parties are engaged in good processes and measures to reduce capacity within the coastal fleet. From frame set to cond. etc. may be provided with means of distribution". This Protocol shows that authorities and industry are committed to jointly identifying and financing actions that will also provide the basis for renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1495	I will be allowed to thank the Council of State for the answer. But I'm disappointed with the content of the answer, and I'm actually also a little bit surprised by the content. When the Liaison Committee and the Stortingen dealt with the notification of the perspective, the renewal and recruitment of the industry areas of the Committee and the Stortingen were very concerned. It has to do with the working environment, it has to do with safety at sea, it has to do with suitable vessels to handle by-product, and it has to do with the profitability of the industry. The Committee said that we should increase efforts on the air conditioning side. There has been the opposite, according to the draft state budget. It was a clear decision in the Grand Duchy in connection with the proceedings. We asked the Government to come back with proposals on current tax and financial instruments that could stimulate an increase in the rate of substitution, and then I do not think it is right that there are government councils and, if necessary, others who have other perceptions of it. I believe that this is a clear directive from Stortinget to come back with suggestions, and that must be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1504	I agree with the representative of Kongshaug that it is important to make fleet renewal. I agree that it is important to provide safe and good jobs. But then it's important that we choose measures that actually have the effect you're after. We have implemented a number of structural measures that can increase the operational base of existing fleets. Some of these are economic; others are of a more technical nature. But the important thing is that if we agree that we should have fleet renewal, the measures must work. I have explained that the proposal to use a provisioning scheme is unlikely to have the effect that is foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1512	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The listed company Pan Fish ASA is again on a shopping trip in the Norwegian fishing industry. This time, the Nordic companies and companies in the pelagic sector are buying-in candidates. It appears that the development of the fishing industry is taken over by listed companies, despite the participation law. Are the Councils aware of this negative development and what measures are being taken to prevent this development contrary to the intentions of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1521	The representative raises the question of buying-in both on the land and on the ship's side. Land-based acquisitions are dealt with in accordance with the rules laid down in the Acquisition Act. I leave this side of the question, as I understand the question in this way – especially because the representative refers to the law of participants – that he is primarily concerned about the ship's side. The question is whether the Council of State is aware of ‘this negative development’ and what measures are being taken to prevent developments contrary to the law. My answer is that I am aware of developments, but I will not sign that this is immediately negative. What would have been negative was whether the Norwegian fishing industry was in such a state that persons and companies with capital were not interested in investing the capital in the Norwegian fishing industry at all. The fact that capital interests show interest and see opportunities for development, in my opinion, we should be happy first of all. It is positive in view of the evolution over time that ever-new environments see the potential for value creation that lies in the fisheries industry in a broad sense. Having said that, I should not underestimate the fact that particularly listed Norwegian fishing fleet owners face some challenges, practical and principal. The Government has therefore decided, irrespective of recent developments, that a sample should be set up to address some issues related to the ownership of fishing vessels by companies, including: the exemption practices to be applied in relation to the requirement of the Participant Act that active fishermen own the majority of Norwegian fishing vessels. The selection shall also consider how to address as majority or minority owners the requirement of consent of the authorities in the case of the purchase of shares in listed companies owned by fishing vessels. For the sake of order, the main principles of the Act of Attendance must be upheld. More specifically, in relation to the specific matter referred to by the representative Bastesen, this issue raises the issue of imposing owner restrictions on the ring note group, similar to those we have on cod trawls. It is already the case that no one can own the majority in more than two purse seine vessels. However, I consider, in addition to or instead of this rule, to set ownership restrictions based on the total quota allocated. Then we get the opportunity to consider minority shares as well. I have not taken a decision on the level at which such a limit should be applied, but it would be most appropriate to set a lower limit of the permitted concentration in ring-fence than the limit of approx. 10 pst. of the group quota applicable to cod trawls.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1545	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not reassured. This, as we now see, is a result of the vertical integration process that has evolved since Bjarne Dark Eidem's time as the Council of State and beyond. When you give facilities the opportunity to own a ship, they, as it is today, buy up unlimited quantities of ships. There are no restrictions except for cod trawls. And then someone who wants to buy this up bought both the company and the vessels. This is a development that is also taking place in the coastal fleet, which is vessel-quota-regulated, where fast boating is underway. Something radical has to be done here, because it's not just about big players interested in the industry, but it's about the housing pattern, it's about the whole structure on the coast. It is a very important issue, and it is high time that it was put on the agenda, so the Minister for Fisheries has a bad time. Will he set this off quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1554	With regard to the ownership committee that I mentioned, the decision to reduce the sample has already been taken. The sample will be reduced as soon as possible, and we will put the sample to work. I hope that the representative Steinar Bastesen agrees that this is so complicated and so fundamentally that it is important that we now do a good and proper job. This is both about the things that I mentioned instead, but also about other things that are relevant in the fishing industry. We have e.g. a relatively large element of generational shifts in industry, which we have to deal with. In these generations, there are some examples that the next generation would like to continue the family business, would like to develop the jobs in the districts, but not necessarily meet the requirement to have been active fishermen. But we need to look into this, and I agree that we are reasonably busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1571	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 24 was answered earlier in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1579	This question, from Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1582	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs to answer on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture: «Researcher Olaf Holm claims that the housing obligation has been wasted and should be removed because it inhibits the countryside, agriculture and innovation. Comparative studies of properties in Värmland and Hedmark show that Värmland, which has never had a personal dwelling obligation, has several owners living on farms and they are better maintained. [[Anesland and Holm: Public regulation of the market for agricultural properties]] How do the State Councils react to the survey?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1591	The study the representative Hedstrøm refers to, was part of a research project at Norway's agro-high school v/professor Normann Aanesland and researcher Olaf Holm. As regards the comparative study on the settlement of agricultural properties in Hedmark County and Värmland County in Sweden, it targets 350 owners in Hedmark and Värmland respectively. The results of the study showed that 20 pst. by the owners of Hedmark do not even live on the property, while the corresponding figure for Värmland was 13 pst. Based on this study and other studies in the project on the importance of housing, researchers have concluded that personal living has not worked to strengthen settlements in the countryside. It is interesting and also positive that legal instruments in agricultural and rural policy are being made subject to research and verification. When it comes to the comparison of the housing of agricultural properties in Hedmark and Värmland, I record the results of the survey. However, I raise the question of whether the study provides a satisfactory basis for the conclusion drawn by the researchers. I do that, among other things. from the relatively low response rate – approx. 50 — in the comparative survey in Hedmark and Värmland, and from how representative it can be considered to be. Furthermore, comparisons can be inappropriate because of the large difference in Norwegian and Swedish agricultural policies over many decades. As long as there are other possible explanations that more agricultural properties are inhabited in Värmland than in Hedmark, there is in my view not sufficient grounds for saying that the difference is due to the fact that we have housing rules in Norway. In an interview with researcher Ola Flaten in NILF – Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research – in the Nation on Saturday 18 November this year, the researcher raised doubts about Anesland and Holm's housing studies are broad enough for the conclusions drawn. Consequently, the results presented and the conclusions reached must be considered to be controversial. With regard to the general report of the research project Public regulation of the market for agricultural property, it gives the broad impression of being a contribution to the liberalisation of the movement of agricultural property. The issue of housing obligations under the Odelsgesetz and the concession law on agricultural property was dealt with in depth in the agricultural notice and here in Stortinget. The Ministry of Agriculture will follow up the message in accordance with the comments of the majority of the Industry Committee. Otherwise, as mentioned above, I welcome the fact that agricultural policy instruments – including legal instruments – are being tested and researched. It's been done too little so far. I will seek to correct it, so that the best possible knowledge forms the basis for the rule of law and the practice of the rules. This has also been said in the agricultural report that the Stortinget has dealt with earlier this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1612	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that she is open to researchers looking at this area, but that she believes that the result so far is somewhat thin. I would say, after all, that Anesland and Holm's book are based on surveys by the Statistical Central Bureau. It is also a main subject of Håvard Gulliksen at Norway’s agricultural high school, and also taking into account the situation in Värmland. It is quite remarkable that Sweden liberalised its agricultural legislation in 1991 and, based on the results available, it has much more investment in farms. They increase in value, and much more live on their own farms in Värmland than in Hedmark. After all, the counties are relatively comparable. These are eye-catching results. Will the Council of State contribute to the continuation of these results and to their further discussion within the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1621	In accordance with what I have already said, I do not see that the material on which the conclusions of the research report are based has such a broad and thorough basis that it should lead to further investigation and discussion before agricultural policy in this area, in accordance with the agricultural notification and the treatment of the Stortinge case, is followed up. But as I said at the bottom of my previous answer, namely that it is positive that the instruments are also being tested in agricultural policy, the Minister of Agriculture and the Government will seek to correct it, so that we have the best possible basis and knowledge in relation to both the practice of the rules and how the rules actually are.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1629	‘Unfortunate reports show that we have major challenges in security and preparedness work. Coordination of training and training for different personnel is one of the improvement points. Hordaland Civil defence camp in Espeland shall be used as a multi-purpose emergency centre where police, health, fire protection, civil protection, acute pollution and general crisis management skills are provided. Expenditure relating to the establishment and operation of the Centre is covered by rental income. How quickly can the centre be realized?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1636	The idea of establishing a multi-stakeholder centre of preparedness is interesting. So far, no decision has been made to create such a centre, and my opinion is that we need to see this in a slightly larger context. Before we can finally decide on the possibility of realising the project, we also need to clarify several financial assumptions. On 10 November, the Government set up a sample to review the country’s operational rescue and preparedness resources. The selection shall assess the interfaces between the different actors in the area. The selection has been given a deadline for the next harvest to set. We should not speed up the work of the committee, and I therefore believe that we should wait with investments for construction projects over the emergency budgets. In particular, there is no provision for a multi-talented preparedness centre in the 2001 budget. This can be included in the 2002 budget as soon as possible if we are to bet on a solution where the state is expanding. The Ministry has per year: today no initiative is being taken to clarify whether there are others who want to do the actual development and operation of the centre against rental income in the future. However, such an initiative will be taken. The Ministry will also follow up the need to clarify other open questions and assumptions of the project in relation to the actors involved. These include: the need to review the impact on annual operating costs so that we have reasonable assurance that the envisaged participants will be able to bear the increased annual costs that implementation of the project is likely to entail. Finally, I would like to stress that the idea of a multilingual centre is very interesting. Good cooperation between rescue and emergency seats is important and there is also an important background for the Government’s initiative to set up a sample that is just going through its operational rescue and preparedness resources. But investments – if we are to invest ourselves – are worth 54 million. kr, we're not, like, doing it quite simply, until we're sure that the economy is okay in that case, and whether this is good in line with what we're planning on the future organisation of the operational rescue and preparedness resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1651	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer, and for being positive to the very idea of creating a multi-faceted emergency centre. I understand that it is necessary to look at the matter in a healthy way, but I need to remind you that we have had several large-scale messages from 1992 until today – there are as many as four – which actually conclude in the same way, that better coordination and cooperation across levels is needed in order to achieve effective crisis management. It is therefore important now that we have the ability to act, and that we can do so, so that the result can be seen in crisis situations. My question, as a follow-up, is how the Minister of Justice looks at having a multi-purpose emergency centre in the West located in Espeland be a trial project, as they have come so far and clarified so many aspects of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1660	It may be precisely the need to go beyond what has been done through the 1992 and future headlines on better coordination, that we have now dropped a sample – it sounds terrible, of course! However, the mandate of the sample is to look at the organisation itself – not just to say that we need to coordinate better, but to look at the organisation itself. The scope of the mandate is also consistent with that proposed by the Vulnerability Committee. So the goal is perfectly clear. I'm not negative to assess whether the Espeland project can be a test project in such a direction. But, as I said, it is necessary, inter alia, to: to take a closer look at the plans and the economy, and there are some other unresolved questions about the project as well. Before I have been answered some of those questions, it is difficult to see whether it is realistically possible to realize it so quickly that it actually advances the work of the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1670	This question, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1673	I will ask the following questions to the Minister of State: ‘According to the police, asylum reception is the basis for criminal acts. Despite the fact that the ‘asylants’ live for free and get $2,500 a month by Norwegian taxpayers, they travel daily to the Oslo Centre to rap clothes and rob people. What will the Council of State do with the fact that the recipients of transit around Oslo are the owners of criminal elements from abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1682	Today we have over 12 000 refugees and asylum seekers living in state reception. This is a very complex group, where some are waiting to be interviewed on their asylum basis, while others have been told to stay in Norway but are waiting for residence in a municipality. Others have been refused, but cannot be returned to their country of origin for various reasons. In other words, more than 12,000 individuals live in reception, and unfortunately some of these times in Norway use to commit criminal acts. The situation with criminal residents in reception I take very seriously. They create fear, they destroy an entire group that is already in a vulnerable and vulnerable position, and they exploit a system to protect people who actually need protection. Therefore, in July of this year, the Government introduced a rapid procedure for the handling of asylum applications for criminal asylum seekers. The applications for persons who are sighted, reported or convicted of criminal offences are prioritised according to specific procedures. The same procedures apply to applications which are considered to be manifestly groundless. If there is no need for protection, he shall leave the country as soon as possible. We have not been served that people without protection use the time in reception to engage in criminal activity. Reception crime is not limited to transit recipients in the East, although these receptions are likely to be more exposed to such activities than other receptions. In order to reduce crime, the transit recipients in the East can now set up additional guards in addition to the regular staffing of the receptions. In order for the Foreign Affairs Directorate to give priority to asylum applications for criminal asylum seekers, it is also necessary to improve the functioning of the procedures for notification of such cases. The Directorate of Foreign Affairs has therefore instructed both the reception and local police authorities on how criminal activity should be reported. As I have said before, I take seriously the situation we see at some reception. Together with the Minister of Justice, I would therefore like to assess today's laws, regulations, procedures and practices to see whether these tools in the field of asylum and alienation are working properly, or whether there is a need for further adjustments or changes. This is a work I want to do very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1698	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think there was a lot of positive in it, at least a step in the right direction with regard to taking these questions seriously. Still looking up in the media reveals that unsustainable conditions prevail in a number of Norwegian receptions for asylum seekers, especially in transit recipients. Under the cover of seeking asylum, the criminal elements – which are those I am concerned with, not the other asylum seekers – that have been housed in the asylum recipients. In my opinion, Norway cannot allow asylum seekers to become collectors of criminals and, in fact, stocks of stolen goods. In my opinion, police and prosecution authorities need to investigate winning crimes involving asylum seekers and get them through the judicial system quickly so that foreign offenders can be sent out of the country as soon as possible. Slowness and misunderstood genius will only be to the detriment. Can I count on the Government's intention to get asylum seekers who have obviously come here for other purposes, as soon as possible out of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1703	Yeah, the answer to that is that people who don't really have protection needs and are here just to do criminal things, of course, should try to get out of the country. I take the situation very seriously, but it is also important for me to stress that there is a minority of the many asylum seekers and refugees who come to the country who commit this activity. But precisely in order for the minority not to destroy the majority — who have a real need for protection and which Norway should accept — we must strike down on those who do things in a crazy way. Therefore, I stress that the most important thing I think we can do is to ensure that the proceedings in the UDI in the case of criminals are as short as possible, as the Government has now imposed on UDI, and those who then have no right to stay in the country, should of course be sent out as quickly as possible. As I said, the Minister of Justice and I are sitting together to try to see if there are also several things we can do to get something done more about this faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1712	This time I have a question to the Minister of Justice: ‘According to the Oslo police, the situation is the worst one has ever seen of the bullying of persons by professional handkerchiefs from abroad. In addition to criminal asylum seekers, there are gangs from Poland and other Eastern European countries. What does the Council of State intend to do with it?"
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1721	Increased crime in the form of thefts by people in public places contributes to creating insecurity among most people. It is important that the police keep track of the crime scene and catch new trends and take action to meet them. Uniformed police in the streets have experience of a security-creating effect on most people and seem deterrent to criminals. Oslo police districts will follow up their work with the increased presence of visible police where there is experience of crime. In reporting, rapid and effective criminal proceedings are important as well as follow-up of any administrative measures in the form of, for example, expulsion decisions. In the case of asylum seekers who commit crime – of this or another type – while having their asylum case for treatment, I refer you to the Minister of State's reply a few minutes ago. Combating thefts of people in public places is one of three main areas of action for the Oslo Police District next year. The police will invite the commercial industry, Oslo Sporveier and the public to a closer cooperation to reduce theft and violence in public places. Norwegian police are represented in several forums for combating international crime. Under the Baltic Sea Task Force, which consists of Russia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Germany in addition to the Nordic countries, there are a number of projects targeting criminals from Eastern Europe, including Poland. Several actions have been organised to address organised crime, such as the smuggling of stolen vehicles, drug trafficking, alcohol and cigarette smuggling, illegal immigration and theft. The Crime Police Center, Kripos, arranged in June d.o.b. a working meeting in Oslo, attended by several international representatives. There were then serious thefts in watchmakers' shops, which had been committed by Polish criminals, in several European countries. This work has produced concrete results in the form of confiscated stolen goods and convictions. Through the Nordic PTN – Police and Customs Cooperation in the Nordic region – there is a continuous exchange of information and the fight against criminal groups. Through this cooperation, liaison officers have been deployed, among others. in Russia, Poland and the Baltic countries. Many of these activities are rarely visible to the public, but are very useful and contribute to the effective fight against crime. These measures, together with regular police work in public places, will continue in the future, with particular emphasis on problem-oriented and targeted service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1738	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I have noted what she has listed. I am primarily concerned with concrete measures in my own country. And to illustrate how professional these handkerchiefs are, I'm referring to episodes where civil police have discovered that they were being counter-stamped from the gangs. The foreigners responsible for this are often camouflaged as tourists or as asylum seekers on a tour of the city. So I'm looking for what the Council of State wants to do with the penalties against these criminal elements from abroad. Then I would also mention the seemingly poor contact there is between the asylum recipients and the UDI, who claim that they are not aware of developments in organised crime at reception. And then my question as to whether it is at all possible, in such a well-developed country as Norway, is that there is no even contact between the asylum recipients and the UDI, which is supposed to enforce this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1747	I find it hard to understand that the representative Stang does not see it as concrete measures that Kripos has concrete cooperation with other countries from which we know that organised criminals come to commit criminal acts in Norway, and that we have concrete cooperation with the same countries to help clarify the crimes that, after all, are taking place. Fighting crime is not just about the criminal framework, but primarily about clarifying matters, and then either getting the criminal punished or deporting. Some of the problem with organised crime – with people coming from other countries – is that the lines also go back, and we are totally dependent on international cooperation to get it done. I also see it as a concrete measure that the Oslo police district has this as one of its three main areas of activity next year. As regards the question of contact between asylum recipients and UDI, I really do not understand the question, because I do not see it as correct that there is no contact between asylum recipients and UDI. And I believe that the Mayor's answer to Jørn Stag's previous question confirms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1784	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. So we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1792	This question, from the representative Brother Yngve Rahm to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Administration who is directing him. However, the question is answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1795	I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research, on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Administration, to answer the following questions: ‘Socially disabled persons have joined the labour force as an appropriate target group with assistance. According to the AB guidelines, it is a measure for participants in AB that social security benefits are reduced over time by part-wage/wage provided by the employer. Socially disabled persons do not have the opportunities of other participants in AB. What can the Council of State do to ensure equal treatment for this Working Party with assistance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1804	The background to the establishment of work with assistance was a desire to test whether technical assistance for organisation is a good form of support for the integration of people with disabilities into normal working life. Life support benefits are not provided as part of the measure. Thus, the participants in Work with assistance have different benefits depending on their relationship with the workplace or social security system. Many people are dissatisfaction, since the target group for Work with assistance is people with extensive occupational disabilities. However, aid work is also useful to other groups of disabled people, such as social workers and others. They may receive an individual benefit if they are not entitled to social security benefits or receive a salary because they have an ordinary employment contract with the employer. The individual benefit is a short-term benefit intended for participation in short-term labour market measures. It is not possible to keep the individual benefit if he/she receives a wage at the same time. It is important that participants, as they exercise their ability to work, either take over other labour market measures providing pay or training, or take over to regular work. The main means of achieving this are chain of action or dissemination. This also applies when working with assistance. There is nothing wrong with employers recruiting the respondent, paying wages in the usual way, while retaining work with assistance for a period of time. Then, of course, the individual benefit falls away. The employer may also receive a salary subsidy if he is willing to enter into an ordinary employment contract. The aim is the successful integration of vulnerable groups into ordinary work. Then it is wrong to allow wages to be combined with short-term living benefits or temporary social security benefits, such as re-employment benefits. There is also a background to the fact that the new rules on reintroduction pay do not have free income and shorten the reintroduction benefits against the number of hours worked. On the other hand, there is an opportunity for persons with long-term social security benefits, such as disability, to combine social security and employee income up to a certain level without any reduction in social security. It is considered important to mobilise the residual working capacity of people with long-term social security benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1819	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we have a common interest in getting disabled people back to work regardless of the background or the type of disability we might be talking about. An integration into the ordinary social life will serve the individual, and of course it will also serve the community. But I understood the Council of State that the Government does not intend to do anything very special to achieve equality between the different groups within the Labour for Social Security. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that I understood his answer correctly. The Bondevik Government initiated work in this area to eliminate discrimination between the different groups within the project. It was never able to put this forward, but the aim was to remove the economic obstacles that were in the way that social workers could also get into normal working life more quickly in a combination of social security and pay. Can the State Council confirm that the Government will not take action to achieve non-discrimination between these groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1828	As I said in my initial answer, and as I see it as agreement, the goal is to get the vulnerable groups into ordinary work and, of course, give equal opportunities for everyone to do it. But that's exactly why the government believes it's going to be wrong to combine wages with short-term living benefits or temporary social security benefits, like re-employment benefits. That's why we don't have occasion to do it within the regulatory framework. But on the other hand, there is an opportunity for people with long-term social security benefits, such as disability, to combine social security and employee income. The possibility of combining social security and employee income, which I perceived as demand by the representative, already exists and is important for people to get into work and take advantage of the working capacity they have. If it requires action to further strengthen that possibility, the Government will of course look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1833	We go to question 32.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1839	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Pracsis training is important for the development and implementation of good teacher training. The teacher’s relationship with the school is based on an old contract work that prevents the new development of this important part of the teacher’s education. The agreement was cancelled without a new contract work being done instead. Will the Council of State see to it that the higher education institutions can apply and test different alternative approaches to practical training as part of the development of teacher training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1848	The 1996 agreement on working conditions for primary, secondary and higher education teachers has, as mentioned in the question, been terminated for renegotiation. Negotiations have been initiated with the civil servants’ organisations for a new agreement. There is a distance between the parties, and these negotiations are not yet concluded. The Ministry has as its starting point a new agreement the provisions of the Training Act that municipalities and county councils can be responsible for providing students with practical training in school. As a basis for the work on a new agreement, the Ministry has asked colleges providing teacher training to comment on how professional quality can be ensured in the context of a new organisation of practical training. Colleges have given many thorough opinions and are broadly in favour of changes in the organisation of practical training. I agree with the representative of Reikvam that there is a need to test alternative approaches to practical training in teacher training. The Ministry will consider finding solutions in consultation with the civil servants’ organisations to test out alternative organisational approaches to practical training.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1857	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State and I clearly share the same objective, that it is possible to test different alternative models of teacher training and of teacher training. But I still think that the Council of State was a little unclear in relation to the contract work. I understand that negotiations can take time, and it is difficult to say when negotiations are over. But I think it's important that there is a clear signal to the colleges that this is imminent, because I know that there are many colleges that are in the incubator with new approaches to practice, and it's important that they get the chance to get started pretty quickly. We have to do something about teacher training, and then the practical part is an important part to do. I wish the Council of State were a little clearer that there are opportunities here, here it's just to throw around and try out alternatives, for a new agreement will be available quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1864	The representative Rivamm and I have the same goal, I can confirm that. I also think we need to get a much closer link between what teachers are responsible for and what is going on in teacher training. It is also correct, as the representative of Rikvam points out, that it is important to try. There are some local trials at universities, such as: in Telemark and Vestfold, where, in consultation with the organisations, attempts have been made locally to organise the training in an alternative way within the framework of the current training teacher agreement. My goal is to reach a new agreement that will enable us to achieve the objectives that both the representative and I have in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1872	This promises well, so I continue: «As a follow-up to the 1996 Stortinge Decision establishing the two higher schools of art, the Ministry set up a selection to explore new professional structures for the training of art. In parallel, a selection was established to address similar questions for music education. In June 1999, the settings were delivered. In what way will the Council of State follow up the case, and at what time and in what form will the Grand Duchy be given the opportunity to deal with future art training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1881	The two studies on the arts and music training were sent to the hearing in the autumn of 1999 with a deadline of 1 March 2000. The Ministry is now working on the follow-up. The question of the study model and the degree structure of right-wing art and music education will be considered in the context of the learning message on right-wing education, which I intend to present to the Stortinget in spring 2001. There are questions that, in my opinion, must be included in an alert treatment of the degree structure of right-wing education. In the light of Storting's treatment, I will assess at what time and in what form it is natural that Stortinget should be presented with any remaining questions related to the arts and music training.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1888	This didn't work out very well. I thank you for the answer, but that was not good enough in my opinion. The degree structure is just one piece of what we're talking about now in relation to the Mjøs Committee and in relation to the other selections that have studied the arts and music programmes. There has been a wider range of problems that have been addressed and discussed in these samples, and the mandate was significantly wider than discussing degree structure. I have no problem saying that there is a degree and degree structure that can be taken in conjunction with the Mjøs selection and the big message that comes from it. But I think I feel very strongly that there is a need for us to get our own big message, that we are given the opportunity to discuss art education in Norway in the light of the two settings. One can already say that there are quite a number of questions that go beyond what has to do with degree and degree structure. There is a need for the Council of State to already indicate that this should be addressed. There's a need to take it up pretty quickly. The investigation work has been carried out. What's left is making a big message, working with it in the department, and then getting it presented to Stortinget. I hope that the Council of State can be a little clearer that this he will present and that he will come to Stortinget with, so that we have the opportunity to discuss this in a wider perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1897	I am sorry that the representative Rikvam did not think this was going as well. I think it's going perfectly well. – However, I think it is right to have a progress in this work, where until spring we get a broad review of the entire Norwegian right-wing education, where all the universities, all the subjects and all the universities will be integrated into a whole also in connection with the funding of studies. Then you take the rounds that are necessary for the different subjects, if you have to go into them more closely. One of the education that we obviously have to go into then and watch – I can say quite clearly to the representative of Rikvam – is the art education. We will come back, after the big review, to Stortinget with it in a suitable form, so that there will be full opportunity to discuss the issues that Rekovam is dealing with here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1909	‘The municipality of Eigersund has private schools with a total of 10,8 pst. of the total student mass. There are hardly any other municipalities in a similar situation. The move in the framework grant for pupils in private schools is particularly outrageous for Eigersund with such a large proportion of pupils in private schools. The municipality itself believes that the net impact is about 5 million. kroner per year. Will the Council of State contribute to correcting this imbalance that affects, inter alia, the municipality of Eigersund?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1916	I am familiar with the issues surrounding the large proportion of private schools in the municipality of Eigersund, among others. Mr Kvassheim's colleague Mr Rasmussen, Mr Rogaland, and also the rapporteur, Mr Eigersund. The distribution through the income system to ensure a fair starting point for an equivalent school offer for municipalities involves, inter alia: municipalities which have a supplementary private school offer funded by the government are corrected for this by a move. Municipalities with more students in private primary schools than the average are drawn on 28 630 kroner per year. pupils in general education for the number of pupils in addition to the average number of pupils in private schools. For comparison, the average operating costs were per capita. students for the whole country 42 700 DKK in 1998. When municipalities with many pupils in private schools can lose weight on the migration scheme, this is because they have free capacity in municipal schools, i.e. the marginal cost of a new student is low. However, municipalities with a stable high number of pupils in private schools should be able to adapt the school structure over time to the actual number of pupils in municipal schools. However, for smaller municipalities in particular, an increase in pupils in private schools could lead to additional financial expenditure during a transitional period. The County will be able to take this into account with the current guidelines on judgement. In the light of what I have now said, I do not want to go in to change the system itself, which, in my view, works satisfactorily in most cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1927	I agree with the Council of State's conclusion that the scheme is likely to work well in most cases. It obviously doesn't do it in the case of Eigersund. The municipality has good evidence that there is a loss in the order of 5 million. kr. You've gone into this so thoroughly that you've looked at every student up against the schools in question. Here's one in a particular situation. My follow-up question to the Council of State is: Can he help municipalities with such a high proportion of students in private schools as Eigersund have an adjustment to their arrangements that are adapted to them, without one thus having to undermine the overall scheme, which the Council of State believes works well in most cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1932	I share with the representative Kvassheim's opinion that such a large proportion of private schools cause problems for municipal schools. These include: Therefore, I and the Government are critical of a strong increase in private primary schools in Norway and therefore lead as restrictive a practice as we can, for approval within the law in force. It cannot be the case that a municipality with a very large proportion of students in private schools will receive more support per year. pupils in public schools. If you had such a system, a municipality that had almost all the students in private schools would still get a lot of money for public school, and it would be unreasonable for those who have all the students in public school. But I see that there may be some problems around particular geographic structures, or special problems with, for example, a high level of special-life support, which involves high costs for municipalities, and we need to look at this in detail on a case-by-case basis. If this is the case, I can't take a stand from Stortingen's pulpit, but of course it will be done when it's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1942	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The 1999 Annual Communication from the Regional Committees for Medical Research Ethics states that ‘the activities have been kept to a minimum and in several areas the Committees have not been able to fulfil their mandate’. Int. S. No 110 said a joint church, education and research committee that these committees must have a budget of their own and be given increased financial resources. [[1999 - 2000]] What has the Council of State done to follow the will of the Great Government in this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1951	The regional committees for medical research ethics are currently linked to the medical faculties of our four universities, and sort them administratively. This means that the expenditure on the activities of the committees is not specified but is included as part of the university budgets. In recent years, the workload of the committees has increased, and I am aware that their financial situation is difficult. In cooperation with the National Research Ethics Committee for Medicine, which is the coordinating body of the regional committees, work has been started in the department to follow up the Storting Opinion. In this work, the Ministry assesses different models that can provide the committees with autonomous budgets. This will be discussed with both the Committees and universities, and I intend to present a proposal in the State budget for 2002. In this respect, I would also like to assess the framework of resources for the Committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1958	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Regional Research Ethics Committees for Medicine are important instruments to ensure that ethical issues relating to medical research activities are properly assessed. These samples have two important tasks. One is to guide researchers in the development of the projects, so that they are within the research ethical frameworks that they believe are sound and that should be taken into account, and, of course, to initiate a public debate on ethical issues related to the medical research projects in question. To be able to carry out these tasks, they need resources. That's why Stortinget also said they had to get their own budget to make the business visible to those who have it. I note that the Council of State says that he has now ‘started a job’ and that in the 2002 budget he will draw conclusions on the assessments he is making. My question to the Council of State will then be: What does he do with these areas in 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1967	It is not only in 2001 but also in 2000 that the situation is critical. Among other things, it was necessary to grant an extra amount at the University of Oslo, so that the committee there could work out the year. Therefore, we will continue to monitor that these committees have the resource base to operate. I also want to have full speed in the work that I mentioned in my first post, to follow up the committee's position. I believe, however, that it is right to get the principal clarifications first, and then to look at the extent of the increase in the framework that may be applicable, and to look at the specific ways in which we might have the funds earmarked, because it can also be done in different ways. So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1977	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Norheimsund Continuing School, Jondal Division, is the only school in the country with training in wooden boat construction. Hordaland County has applied for national status in this subject. This has been rejected. The County Council has therefore decided to close this offer due to a high investment need, approximately. Ten million. krones. This means that students who want to learn this subject must travel to Denmark. Is this a desirable development, and will the Council of State re-assess the provision of shoreline status to the school for the wooden boat construction profession?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e1986	The objective of the landline system is to ensure a national offer in some small or expensive courses which are given only in one or a few places in the country. It is the Stortinget which has decided on the small subjects to be covered by the national ruler system. The county councils which have national lines are responsible for making available the facilities and facilities necessary for the training. The Ministry then grants grants to the operation and renewal of equipment. The application from the county council of Hordaland for the national status of the wooden boat builder at Norheimsund Further Information School, Jondal Division, shows that the school needs investment funds for the upgrading, conversion and expansion of the school premises. This expenditure has been estimated at 10.2 million for the county of Hordaland. kr. If the Ministry had granted the wooden boat builder shoreline status, it would have resulted in a State grant for the operation and renewal of equipment. The county must itself cover the costs of upgrading, rebuilding and expanding the school facilities. I refer to the fact that the county councils today have established good cooperation on several nationwide offers. Nationwide offers are courses that are no basis for having more than one or a few subjects. The payment for the students in these offers is made by guest student settlement. The Ministry receives several applications from counties and organisations for direct government funding for several subjects. If new subjects or lines are to be approved under the national border regime, it must be financed by reducing the framework grant to all counties. This means that the ordinary county offers are provided with less funds. Such developments will take responsibility for the county councils and the possibility of planning the offer on an overall basis in the field of secondary education. Ensuring the need for labour and society for competence in the many small subjects of secondary education requires comprehensive planning and committed cooperation between municipalities. On this basis, I will not extend the landline system to include the wooden boat builder class at Norheimsund.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e2006	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was not very uplifting for the wooden boat construction industry in Norway. Norway has a long, long tradition as a shipping nation, and there were three boats that were the carrying element and still the carrying element in any case in the Norwegian fishing fleet, not so much in the merchant fleet anymore. It is therefore reassuring that we are not able to observe the wooden boat builder traditions, but we must refer our students to Denmark to learn the wooden boat builder's profession. It's mildly transitory. Can the Council of State imagine coming to Stortinget with a recommendation that three-boat construction also becomes a cross-border subject in line with other subjects that have been read and adopted in Stortinget? Will he promote such a thing for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e2011	There is nothing to prevent us from having training in wooden boat construction in Norway even if it does not become a landline. Whether we had made it a landline or not, it would have been the county councils that had the responsibility to provide the facilities and equipment necessary for the training. That means they're 10 million. kr to which the representative Bastesen refers in his question, in any case had to be covered by the county municipality. So lack of landline is not what prevents the county from making the necessary investments. The county authorities have today established a lot of cooperation on nationwide offers, even where there are no country lines. I believe that we should give the county councils a great responsibility for higher education, that is what they have, and that we should take care of some small or expensive courses in general, where we provide support for the operation and renewal of equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e2018	For its part, the President will just mention that with the amount of rainfall we now have, boat construction can become a reality before anyone knows. So the market can get better, sir. Bastese. So we go to the last question, which is question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e2026	This question, from the representative of Hilde Frafjord Johnson to the Minister for Health, is raised by the representative of Are Næss.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e2029	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘On a children’s panel on genetic engineering under the auspices of the Biotechnology Nomenclature/Technology Council on 15 November 2000, the Minister for Health said that if Norwegian consumers do not want genetically modified foods, they could influence the market by not buying those products. Int. S. No 257 asks the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party that the Government assesses a moratorium on genetically modified foods in Norway. [[1999 - 2000]] The national meeting of the Labour Party has also recently been adopted. Does the State Council not intend to follow up on the views of the majority of the population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e2038	Of course, I intend to follow up the decisions taken by Stortinget in this and all other areas. In that respect, I could conclude my answer with this, but I use the opportunity to clarify any ambiguities that might lie behind the question that has been raised. During the examination of the Consumer Notice, a proposal from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party asked the Government to consider imposing a temporary ban on food containing genetically modified ingredients was sent to the Government without any substantive treatment. I can assure you that the Government will make such an assessment. Where the question refers to that proposal, it is said that ‘the national meeting of the Workers’ Party has recently been adopted’, it is somewhat misleading. However, an opinion from the national meeting shows that genetically modified food has not yet been authorised for sale in Norway, and that we in the Workers' Party will think well about it before we may open up the sale of such products. It is also pointed out that a temporary ban – as we have practised to date – will ensure time for discussion and investigation of the problems associated with genetically modified food. The government’s assessment of these issues will also be consistent. The conference of laymen referred to in the question was intended to discuss several issues related to genetically modified food, including the question of a moratorium. At the opening of such a discussion, I did not find it right to go out with certain opinions on which conclusions should be drawn. Of course, there was no reason for me to predict what conclusions would come from the evaluations the government will be carrying out in the future. On the other hand, I found it natural to point to some of the conditions that in any case will affect the development of genetically modified food. In this context, I mentioned forces that will take effect on the market, including consumer market power, and opportunities and limitations in regulating this market. During the Leakmans Conference, a number of interesting views and recordings were made. I can assure you that the Government will provide all of these and a wide range of other investigations and make a thorough assessment before considering questions about approving genetically modified foods in Norway, including questions about moratorium on such foods.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e2051	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and note that he will consider a temporary ban, so-called moratorium, on genetically modified foods in line with what the majority of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration asked for in Innst. S. No 257. The Minister of Agriculture said in response to me in Stortinget on 20 October that it will be important for the Government to also involve the Stortinget in an active debate on the challenges associated with genetically modified organisms. The Minister of Agriculture thus signals that Stortinget will be treated for this, and I expect the Minister of Health to confirm that the use of genetically modified food will not be authorised in Norway until the Stortinget has been dealt with this matter in a satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e2058	I have not been through the assessments that need to be made with regard to dealing with these issues in relation to the Storting. I just refer to the presence of the necessary legal entities for the approval of genetically modified food, and that it is not a formal condition that any authorisation of genetically modified food should be submitted to and processed by the Stortinget. However, I again point out that the Government will make the thorough assessments it has been asked to make in accordance with the proposal made during the processing of the consumer notice, and in that respect the Government will certainly also consider the relationship with the Stortingen in this case in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-22.ana.ud1143e2063	That being the case, it is no. 1 completed on the current map.
