ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e44	The representative Siri Frost Sterri, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Party of Socialists and Democrats for Europe Group on the extension and amendment of the permit granted to the representative Karin Andersen from 10 October to 20 October, until further notice from the Group of the European People's Party on the welfare leave of the representative Jon Olav Alstad from 24 October to 3 November from the representative Ane Sofie Tmärås on welfare leave from 25 October to 3 November and for the period from 14 November to 17 November On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave:For Hedmark County: Helge BjørnsenFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Bernt HågensenFor Østfold County: Morten Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e100	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e103	On behalf of Vidar Kleppe, Jørn L. Stang, Per Erik Monsen and myself, I am pleased to make a proposal that the import quotas for travel equipment and luggage such as alcohol and tobacco etc. be harmonised with EU rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e108	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e111	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Øyvind Vaksdal and myself, I would like to make a private proposal that the expenditure on social alarms is covered by the public interest and allocated through the agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e116	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e130	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e144	Inner. S. No 4 from the Financial Committee on a proposal from the representative of Erna Solberg to amend the rules on public register registration so that students can be given the freedom of choice to register in the municipality in which they live during the study period. Today, students are still registered in their original municipality, even though they are studying and living in another municipality for many years. The proposal points to a number of problems in this respect, including: that students will be cut off from influencing and participating in the political life of the municipality and the district in which they live during the study period. At the same time, it will be difficult for practical reasons to continue to participate in the political activity of the home municipality. That again is why the turnout among young people aged 20-25 is low, I believe it is somewhat uncertain, but that there may be a connection, you should not ignore it altogether. Where students are to be registered during their studies has been a discussed topic on several occasions. This is because it also affects transfers to the municipalities. The transfers go today to the municipality where the student is registered in the Folkeregisteret. Therefore, host municipalities for universities and colleges have had a desire to change today's legislation, and the Stortinget has previously asked the Government to investigate the relationship between host municipalities, educational institutions and student relations. The Ministry has informed by letter to the Committee — the letter is attached to the recommendation — that the rules for the registration of students are currently under assessment in the Ministry. The Ministry has not concluded, but looks at several possible solutions as they are. The Ministry also considers that it is important to consider the different economic effects for the municipalities concerned, depending on whether they have net relocation or relocation and whether or not they receive income-balancing grants. A majority of all, with the exception of the Advancement Party and the Right, refer to the letter from the Ministry and consider it appropriate to await the work being done there. The same majority will therefore not rule on the realities of Document No. 8:70 or the letter from the ministry, but await the work that is now being done, and ask that the matter come to the Stortinget in appropriate form during the fall. This should not delay the matter very late. The vote will also take place on the basis of the majority view that the value of the student's ability to be politically active should be given priority. In the light of this, the Committee recommends that the proposal be annexed to the minutes. The minority in the Committee, the members of the Right and the Party of Progress are in favour of the adoption of the proposal. I expect these parties to do their best for their views on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e167	Rarely have I seen a position like that of bureaucracy as the majority's position in this matter. A Document No has been promoted. Eight proposals about democratic rights and the ability to influence our society where we live, and then the answer is that the impact on the economy of the municipalities needs to be assessed in more detail, and that there must be some objective criteria to choose. The answer from the Left is that this is really in their educational policy programme, but they have to wait until the bureaucrats have completed the investigation. This case – the question of registration, not the question of freedom of choice – has been dealt with for five years in the Ministry of Finance. The question has been whether to change the main principle. When I promoted this document No. The eight-proposal, among other things. on the basis of the student organisations' wish that this was not the main issue, but rather the element of freedom of choice, the democratic rights that can be influenced where you live. All other principles in this respect will reduce the ability of individuals to influence their daily lives. If you choose what is suggested by the Ministry of Finance, that everyone over 22 years of age should be registered elsewhere, that means that all those over 22 years of age who are politically active at home, but who are gone for one or two years of training, in a way, lose the opportunity to continue their political work where they come from. Being a student today is very little uniform. Some are there for ten years -- it's too long of course -- in a place different from where they come from, some are there for one year. It is therefore not possible to establish objective rules that can be adapted to the individual perceptions of the students. That's why we think freedom of choice should be the principle you'd put on. And you could maybe cut through on the problem you're discussing, whether it's district policy or urban policy that's going to decide who's going to get the money for the students, the municipality they're originally from, or the municipality where the place of education is. And then you have to discuss the host municipality's obligations. The problem is, if you're in favour of freedom of choice, that no estimates coming from the Ministry of Finance will be able to tell you anything about the outcome of the local economy, because it will depend on how people choose. I don't think the Ministry of Finance actually has enough creativity to think about. So it's more than 100,000 people who could then choose to be registered differently than they are today. I am glad that in some way the proposal has not been put to death, that it may come back during the fall, but I think the Stortinget should take a position on the principles, and so the investigations, based on those main principles, should come back. It should not necessarily be the case that bureaucracy should take the lead in investigations without actually making a choice of principle, as I invited the Stortinget to do in this case. And then we get hope that the Left chooses to follow its own programme in the next round, and not be governed by all the bureaucrats who sit in the ministry. I would also like to be allowed to include the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e182	Erna Solberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e185	The treatment of this matter is a suitable example of why policy is gradually becoming discredited. It has two reasons. In this case, you get the impression that the majority in particular is not against the proposal, but because it is promoted by the Right, you would rather not support it. There are a lot of parties that have sometimes experienced. Most people think that's pretty stupid. If that's true, why don't you back it up? Are you set here to run a game, or are you set here to take a stand for real problems that affect most people? Now it is not directly stated in the vote that you do not want to support the proposal, but that is what it really says, because the vote is a 'good-bye' response. The proposal of the Right, supported by the Progress Party, with all due respect, is an invitation to take a position of principle. It is not, as the majority believe, a proposal that all students should be moved to the host municipality, i.e. where they study. It would have been economically possible to calculate the impact for each municipality. But this is an invitation to freedom of choice, so that the individual student can choose. It's not even an order to choose, but it's an option. I don't know how many people will choose. But it is interesting that this freedom of choice therefore chooses the representatives of the government party. And it's not so unusual to say that such questions of principle cannot be taken into consideration until the Ministry of Finance has investigated it, it's a form of parity that government parties often have to submit to. In itself, it contributes to problems for those parties that are in government position at all times, which I think more have experienced. But the worst thing here is in a way that parties that are now in opposition are also subject to the same kind of civility and say that a principle position cannot be taken until the financial consequences of the Ministry of Finance have been calculated – yes, for that matter any department. That's what I think is an expression of an incredible seriousness, and I understand that representatives of the central parties in this debate are shutting down, or it's called keeping their mouths shut, because this is an expression of a lack of political thinking ability, coordination or independence. But I want to repeat: the term ‘servility’ is comprehensive. So to what is to be investigated. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance – I have given up asking representatives of the opposition parties: how does the Minister of Finance think it is possible to calculate the impact of this cost? I'll take an example: in Oslo it's about. 60,000 students, and these 60,000 students get to choose if they want to live in Oslo or if they want to live in the municipality they're from. I guess there's no reason to believe that the majority will choose to move out. But here there's an freedom of choice, there's the possibility that one student chooses to move out and settle in Oslo, and for 60,000 students to do it. How will the Minister for Finance calculate that cost? It's going to be a complicated problem in a lot of options. Here you point, among other things: to the uncertainty surrounding the municipalities that provide students, i.e. the residence municipalities of the students, after today's system has moved away or moved. Then I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance, how did he intend to calculate it? Does the Ministry of Finance have forecasts of expected relocation over the next ten years? Those forecasts would have been interesting to get an insight into, especially I think they will apply to the municipalities. The majority also point out that it may have an effect on whether or not they receive income-balancing grants. It's related to the previous one. But the moment you haven't taken into account, if you're going to complicate it further, is, to return to the example, the following: Will Oslo benefit from the fact that 60,000 students choose to move to Oslo, you could immediately believe that, for their income – the students work a good deal on saying in today's system – will it be possible to tax in Oslo? But no, that's not the math, because there's another element coming in here: by the fact that 60,000 students move to Oslo, the proportion of older pensioners of the population will go down, so Oslo won't win financially on such an effect. But it depends on whether there's 60,000 who will make this choice or whether there's only 1,000 or 500. What I'm trying to problem here is that in practice this is impossible to calculate. The calculation of the result of a choice not made by the Ministry of Finance, not by the Ministry of Local Government, not by the individual municipality, but by the individual student himself, is practically impossible. But I challenge the Minister of Finance to reveal this computational technique that is going to give us a dazzlingly clear calculation of the effect and the result for each municipality that is being moved away, and for the host municipalities that have a possible relocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e198	I want to follow up on the challenges the representative Foss gave the Minister of Finance. One thing is to ask the Ministry of Finance to count on these things and perhaps to prescribe a possible development in terms of the student's relocation and relocation. However, it is usually the case that if the department is going to do that type of calculation, it also has a purpose: to follow up the calculations or impact assessments with proposals to mitigate the negative impact on the individual municipality, and certainly also to mitigate the positive impact on other municipalities, the Ministry of Finance is well known. And then it would be very interesting to know how the government in that case sees such an impact assessment, and what to follow it up with in practice. Does it mean, for example, to change the transmission system of the municipalities as a result of a massive transfer or transfer of students? It seems to me that a discussion, including this letter from the Department, shows that there is no interest at all in deciding on the principle, namely that each citizen of the nation should have greater freedom of choice, greater right to decide for themselves where they want to live. But here, you get involved in a discussion that goes more into what this means financially for the respective municipalities, and forgets to take the citizen into account. I was thought to have a debased principle in this society of having municipalities, county councils – which we no longer want – and state, because they had to set the conditions straight for the inhabitants. And then it becomes even more strange when the bulk of the population here eagerly follows up the Ministry of Finance and wants to use these types of calculations to decide on the principle of each student's right to make any choices. I could imagine hearing the Minister of Finance explain a little bit about this, how these impact assessments should be followed up in practice, because it would be quite costly, I'll tip, if you take more account of it than the principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e207	It is with a certain admiration that I observe the representative Foss' intense commitment to a matter where the government is actually expected to come back with a concrete proposal during the autumn, i.e. in the course of a month. As far as the Left is concerned, it is clear that we support the principle of the Right-wing proposal. But with some government experience behind us, we find that it is common courtesy to await the suggestions of the Government. And I have to say that I am looking forward to the representative Foss getting a government experience that allows his commitment and intensity to run out other ways than through what is presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e214	I am sorry that I cannot share the wishes of the representative Terje Johansen for Per-Kristian Foss to have such a government experience. But it's obviously right, as the representative Johansen points out, that it makes sense to prepare a case as best you can before you take a position. There has been a debate in recent years on how to register students. It is today that the formal rules in relation to taxation and population registration are actually somewhat different, even though they have approached in practice. This is one of the reasons why the letter from the Ministry refers to an age limit as a single assessment point. First of all, I am very sceptical – to say it mildly – about a general change in the direction of students generally being registered at the place of study. That is not what the rapporteurs here are proposing. To promote changes to current legislation, there are in principle two possible ways of doing so. One is to allow for a complete freedom of choice, which the proposers here are calling for. Another option is to establish clearer administrative rules that determine intersections, e.g.: how long you've been away from your original home, etc. These are moments of assessment. I'm skeptical about laying down such general rules that state that people's registration will change at a given time. Administrative considerations advocate such a solution. I believe that relatively strong, real considerations are in the opposite direction. I have a great deal of understanding of the proposal put forward by the proposers here that the student's own assessment of his/her relationship should be given considerable emphasis, and also where he/she wants to operate a social exposure, a political commitment. But there are different things that we have to figure out before any position here can be taken. One is – as far as the representative Foss was concerned: what are the different political and economic consequences of the different choices that are being made? It's also an important moment that the representative Foss refers to, that in the alternative where the student chooses, we can't clearly determine what the crowds are going to be like. However, it is important to clarify the possible consequences of such a proposal. So this is what the department is doing. That's what we want to present to the Storting in an appropriate form, and we think it's important that you also have it with you. But the representative Foss ignores another issue that such a case triggers: how should the government loan fund schemes be assessed in relation to a change in population registration? Should, for example: the traditional expatriation allowance, the travel allowance, if you change your place of residence? A logical consequence of the proposal made here is that if the student chooses to live at the place of study, he no longer has a travel distance to the place of residence, which is a prerequisite for such scholarships. But it is not obvious that this should be the conclusion. That's why we think it would be right to spend some time reviewing it. But it would be useful if the representatives Foss and Solberg here explained that the logical consequence of the proposal is that students registered at the place of study no longer have these rights. It's the logical direct follow-up. And if it becomes the logical conclusion drawn by the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party, it is a useful illustration for the further work. But that is not an obvious conclusion, and therefore it has to be assessed before coming back and concluding on what the future arrangement should be. I would like to signal for myself that I have an understanding of the intention behind the proposal. It will be taken care of in the further investigation work, and then we will come back and inform the Storting in an appropriate way about the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e229	I would like to mention a couple, three moments in connection with this matter. First of all, I would like to point out to the case-speaker's post and the line below very strongly from my side that it is not necessary to take a long time until this comes back to Stortinget, so that we can decide on the facts. Let me also add that, of course, we are at what we were at at the Budget-Inst. S. No 12 for 1999-2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a matter on the relationship between the host municipality, the educational institutions and the student relations as soon as possible.’ It shall also be included in the assessments made by the department. And on the other hand, as a little advice to the ministry: I have a very little sense of the reasoning that the ministry refers to when the debt was 22 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e243	It is possible that it is wrong to have an involvement in a matter that has been under investigation for five years. But I'm actually so impatient that I think social changes should have a slightly higher pace, at least those we have a reasonable degree of overview of. This is not part of the global economy, not part of the market, not part of our agreements with international organisations. This is something we can actually handle even here in the country. As politicians, we often complain that we may have left much to one another, to the market, to organisations or to agreements. But we can actually control this ourselves. And then I think it's showing the ability to make a principle decision, and then take the consequences of it, is the expression of political will and political governance. So you could say, would you look at this differently if you had been in government? Yes, it is possible, but in that case it would not be something I would boast of. I don't think that would be any good for me. And then to this if I thought that a five-year rest break to solve such a question was reasonable: I hope I won't mean it. I take with me a certain degree of humor and yet with great warmth the support of the Left to wish me as Minister of Finance! I'm going to take it with me, but I don't think it's going to be crucial to the possibilities of government formation. So to the question itself. What we invite you to do here is not, as the Minister of Finance also said, a decision on the general transfer from the municipality of residence to the municipality of the host. It is possible to read out of the proposal. What we are actually talking about is a very limited proposal on freedom of choice. It is possible to have an overview, but it is not possible to calculate costs. The Minister of Finance has confirmed that. It is not possible to calculate costs which you do not know what is. Of course, you can make alternatives from 1 per million choosing to use the right to 100 pst. do so, but it would be completely wasted work, if I should say so, for none of the parts would be particularly relevant. In addition, it also depends on other aspects of social development that we do not know, including relocation and migration in the general population. Demographic developments, i.e. entries of old-age pensioners in the population of different municipalities, have a reasonable overview, but also the indirect impact on their share of the population they can calculate with this proposal. So this is a question of taking a political position on a principle that has been part of the public debate for many years. In fact, I think that in any case the opposition parties should have manned themselves up to take another position. But I record that you have patience once again to wait. The finance minister's invitation to take a stand on what the study financial consequences would be, I do not want to accept at all. For if the Ministry of Finance is going to investigate, they are going to be determined! I don't intend to do that job for them. But if the Ministry of Finance wanted to make an invitation to a principal clarification of this, I would have been very interested in doing so. And I'm going to come back to that in other contexts. So I thank you for the invitation to the hearing, but after the Ministry of Finance's own request, I think I'll leave it to the department itself. I have my opinion on study funding and its consequences, but I will reserve that – with all due respect – a somewhat more relevant context and assembly!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e261	First to the representative Lie, who said he has little sense of a solution with an intersection of 22 years. I want to make it very clear that my starting point is not that it should be a conclusion. The point of the letter is that if, for administrative reasons, you had a fixed point of intersection, it would be, for reasons that are currently in the regulation, a possible time. I have stated in my main post that at least I see there are strong counter-arguments against such a fixed arrangement, and this makes the content of the letter not to be interpreted so that it is a point of view. But that's one of the different points of assessment. Then I register that the representative Foss will not express the consequences of the proposal from the Right. No, that's okay, but the representative Foss admits that his answer, or the lack of a response, is that we are faced with questions and issues that need to be resolved, and that the Right has not expressed its view. They indicate that the Department should investigate and indicate that the Department should also investigate it. Yeah, I totally agree with that. That's also what the majority of the Storting have said, that these kinds of ambiguities need to be clarified before drawing a conclusion. It is difficult to interpret the representative Foss differently from pushing away from a problem that needs to be addressed before taking a position, by pointing out that further investigation is to be carried out. In this way, I think the conclusions of the representative Foss are quite consistent with those of the majority of the Storting draw, that here are the issues to which there are no obvious conclusions and which need to be considered before the conclusions are drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e269	Per-Christian Foss has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e272	If I can reassure the Council of State, the former representative, who lives in Finnmark, I can at least say the following: Right does not intend to change the regime for outlaws. Because we're not going to force the parents to move with the student. If, for example: The Finnmark student chooses to live in Oslo to be politically active there, so it would be happy for political life, at least in Oslo. But the rules are that it's not the place of residence, but it's whether you live with your parents or not, which is crucial if you're getting sheltered. So this is not a proposal to force the parents of the students!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e277	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e291	The issue of the publication of tax lists was the last one in the United Kingdom in 1997. At that time, Lars Sponheim was the author of a similar proposal as what we are dealing with today. Both the majority of the committee and the position of the left is the same as at that time. The same arguments as were then up are still valid today. The new thing is that the proposers deal with the relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights and whether the publication of the tax lists is contrary to it. I refer to the Minister of Finance's letter to the Committee of 2 October which is discussing this and which rejects the fact that publication violates the Convention. But I would nevertheless like to repeat some of the arguments for the majority's view. That's how the debate puts us in what we call a liberal dilemma. The tax lists are put out to public scrutiny every harvest, and each of us can verify that we contribute about as much to the community as others with similar income ratios. But it is also clear that taxes and wealth of many are perceived as private information. In several countries, income and tax data are also classified as sensitive data. Well, we have to provide this information to the public – it accepts the vast majority of us – but it can be perceived as a breach of trust and a violation of privacy when the public then makes the tax information available to everyone, and when one may re-examine its own income relationships in a separate tax annex in the locality. For many, it may not be that the tax information is published, which is the most disturbing, nor is it the feeling that a person does not control who gets this information and what it is used for, which gives the greatest concern about privacy. And in many ways it can be perceived as a breach of trust when the state with the law demands information in hand and then makes money to sell them on. These concerns should be taken seriously. So we're in a dilemma. Apparently, we are facing a choice between two values that we all want to strengthen in society; a choice between transparency and privacy. I say apparently, because it is possible to find arrangements for the publication of the tax lists that preserve transparency, while at the same time preventing a slippage that can really threaten privacy. It is against this background that the Left is in favour of rejecting the proposal for a ban on publication. Following the Left’s assessment, several important elements should be given weight. First of all, it is true that the tax lists should continue to be made public. Transparency in the tax lists at individual level is a prerequisite for confidence in and the opening up of our tax system, partly because it provides every opportunity to control its equation against others, but also because transparency at individual level allows for the detection and correction of tax system bias. The second point of view that is important is that it is not the Grand Duchy’s task to regulate how the press reproduces information that is publicly available. It would be to say that the tax lists should be out of the question and at the same time prohibit a journalist from taking notes of the information and making an article that tells who are the ten richest in a municipality. We may have opinions on how relevant journalism is when a newspaper, for example, is. print an annex containing tax information on all the inhabitants of a city – or the richest street in the city, for which I have seen examples – but this is an important part of transparency, and should not be regulated. In the opinion of the Left, it is not the press’s journalism about the tax lists that is the biggest problem. It is the uncontrolled dissemination and unforeseeable reuse of these registers that threatens privacy. It is true that everyone, except the press, must have a concession to have the tax lists on a disk, but on paper everyone can buy a tax list for any municipality. The problem is that it is easy to convert a paper list to a data register. It does not take a computer scientist 15 years of age with equipment of less than NOK 20 000 for many minutes to collect all the inhabitants of a medium-sized city in a searchable data register. Today, we do not have control over this through the concession scheme. In the setting, the Left and the other central parties outline a solution that ensures both transparency and privacy. It briefly states that the tax lists, as they are today, are being published for public scrutiny for three weeks. The press, credit information companies and others with material needs shall have online access to a register of the Tax Directorate containing the same information. This will control the dissemination of the information and the information will always be up-to-date. This will be important for privacy. At the same time, transparency would be ensured by the public being able to see the lists when they are posted, and the press searching the register when it needed them. The left considers that such a solution would be to deal constructively with both the hazards and the opportunities that technological development entails. Before that, extensive and expensive equipment was required to convert a paper list into a data register. Today, this is cheap extra equipment for a home PC. When the mass delivery of tax information on machine-readable media started in the 1980s, online solutions were poor and very expensive. Today they are cheap and efficient. That's why we have completely new opportunities to maintain both privacy and transparency in relation to what we had just a few years ago, and the IT community is doing it much more important than before to try to find the good solutions that protect both of the values I've described here. With this vote by the majority, I recommend rejecting the proposals of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e321	I registered that the case rapporteur, the representative of the Left, had certain reservations for the publication of tax lists, but the conclusion I was very surprised at, especially when on other occasions the Left tries to present itself as the voice of the individual and the one who upholds the rights of the individual. At least you don't do that in this case. According to the Equation Act of the early 1980s, all tax lists are currently available for public access. It actually means that anyone can get insight into what you earn, how much you pay in taxes and how much your wealth is. No one can today make a reservation against publication. However, certain reservations were made in the Ministry of Finance in the autumn of 1997. Then there was a refusal to publish the tax lists on the Internet, because, as it was called, it would expose the economic situation of individuals. But today the situation is quite different. Now lists of all those with income and wealth on the web are being added to the entertainment of some — especially the press, who are clinging to numbers hoping to increase the sales of the newspaper. Whether you want to or not, you will be posted online and can get your most private relationships presented in the newspaper. Some media have also published their full address. Then we often talk about human rights and legal protection in Norway, and every human being has fundamental rights. Here, there is a poor example of how such so-called rights are practised in Norway. From the Institute for Legal Informatics at the University of Oslo, it is stated that if someone brings the Norwegian tax disclosure scheme to the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, it is not only likely, but probably, that the scheme will be signed. It's pretty strong words from someone who's got something to do with legal issues. The income and wealth of a person should, in accordance with the principles of the Advance Party, be a matter between the person concerned and the authorities responsible for the equation. Despite the fact that the Swedish Data Protection Authority is also opposed to the publication of the tax lists, the Ministry of Finance today says that the present scheme will continue until the Stortinget or a judgment changes this situation. Publishing the equation is an ancient common Norse phenomenon, and a misunderstanding of what is democracy. Denmark abandoned this scheme in 1970, but Sweden, Finland and Norway still have the same scheme. However, what is special in Norway is that when the equation became more public, in the mid-1980s, newspapers could start printing lists of equations, and they introduced the system of the annual ‘binocular party’. On some occasions, editors strongly highlight the existence of these lists of individual incomes. In Norway, income and wealth are as public as that on the clothesline. It shouldn't be like that. But newspaper editors and media experts are of a completely different opinion. They want this system to continue. In my opinion, comparing the income and wealth of different individuals, with close comments and photos of property items, is simply svallder journalism. In England, France, Italy and Germany, the drier of income and wealth would be scandalous, as in Norway. Previous attempts to abandon this policy of envy have been made by a large majority. I will claim that the Storting must sooner or later reconsider its view on this matter and fall to a completely different conclusion than today. Tax lists can also be abused in criminal matters and actually lead to fraud. The fraud can take place as follows, a procedure specifically used by Nigerian criminals: about 25 000 letters are sent from Nigeria to Norway annually — and the victims are selected from the tax lists and the telephone directory. SDS, Statens Datasentral, also tried for a few years to make stores in the tax registers. They offered to sell tax information to about 1000 companies and public institutions. That offer was stopped immediately after the Tax Directorate intervened, and the Data Protection Authority asked for an explanation of the situation. It was then used as an argument for the offer that information in tax lists is public, that those who buy the information do not need authorisation, and that those who receive information about do not know. There is legal certainty in the high seat. I am of the opinion that Norway should have the same rules as Germany, which says that the kind of news media we have in Norway today, without reservation rights, is considered to be a violation of privacy and a criminal abuse of freedom of expression. In doing so, I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e349	Jørn L. Stang has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e352	After the previous article, there is a good need for a few corrections to the actual situation, for there was a lot of incorrect information. But let me first say it like this: I'm glad that the proposal is rejected by a majority here on the Stortinget. There is a long tradition in the Norwegian administration of transparency — it is one of the good things in Norwegian administration. Openness around this, therefore, is important to prevent abuse of power, to prevent injustice and randomness, and not least mistreatment. So the information that is public is not personal in any sense. The conclusion – what you have in net income, what you have paid in taxes and what you have in wealth – is otherwise not publicly available. This means that it is possible to figure out what you have as net income, but that number says – and that's actually true – very little. And if you have big debts, that number will go down. This means that the figures provided have the possibility to check, which in turn means that the authorities have to be quite different in nature to ensure that the information provided is as accurate as possible. And it is clear that there is an opportunity to say that this could affect privacy. What we're actually facing is a choice between giving transparency and giving all the problematic considerations the most importance. On this question, I think it's right – and it's wise – that the bulk of the population here is doing, to focus on transparency. This means that it should be possible for journalists, if they so wish, to pass on the information contained in the tax lists. Editing newspapers or news media is not the task of Storting or other bodies. This means that there are many headlines in the tabloid press that many people probably feel very uncomfortable — there are also politicians at times, even though many people think it might be unfair. The point is that neither Stortinget nor any other body has the task of editing Norwegian media. We have editorial posters for that, and we have the Professional Committee of the Press to judge possible abuse. And if that's how the abuses are perceived as very offensive and very wrong, then we also have a criminal law that can come in. What we're facing is the choice between a social value, which we from SV want to place on weight, and the possible disadvantages that some people who don't pay taxes can experience, because it's really the ones who are probably the ones who feel the most distressed of all of this. The usual man, the ordinary citizen, will not see this as particularly problematic, for they pay their taxes. I think the problem has been primarily linked to a lot of coffers and rich people who don't think it's particularly pleasant to discover that they have hard fortunes and hard incomes, but do not contribute to the community that most of us want. It's interesting that it's the Progress Party, as if they're later a party for the little ones in society, that promotes this proposal to protect the rich from unpleasant transparency. It's kind of interesting in that way. The latest information from the Progress Party is also not correct, namely that the Data Protection Authority has substantial objections to this. If the Data Protection Authority had a problem with the issue, and it is correct to do so, and if the Data Protection Authority considered this to be a breach of data protection, then the Data Protection Authority has had more than enough authority to say that this is not allowed. It has not been done by the Data Protection Authority, and the reason for this is simply that there is a long tradition of transparency in administration. In the balance between different disadvantages, the Data Protection Authority has accepted publication and mass dissemination of data lists. That means that that's not right what the representative Stag here says. Data protection can stop this if they want to, but despite all the fact that transparency is the most important principle in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e369	As mentioned earlier, it is not the first time that the proposal to prohibit the publication of tax lists is promoted. But I think the time just gets more and more mature as the years go by, because the list is used much more commercially now than before. It can certainly be claimed that this publication is a matter of transparency and freedom of expression. But then I think the counter-question must be: freedom of expression and openness to whom? The ones that initially apply, i.e. the taxpayers, don't have the opportunity to oppose this. They don't have anything they should have said. I don't call that freedom of speech or openness. That's what I call the violation of the privacy of the individual. In the opinion of the Financial Committee, the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and the SV have noted that they can understand that it is problematic for those at the top of this list to be presented in the newspapers. But I actually think that publishing the tax lists can feel a lot worse for those who are on the list below. It is actually the case today that there is not only information about celebrities and those who are very rich, who are being published. It's about all of us who have income. For ordinary employees, it is not so easy to know that the neighbor and friends, and perhaps those who are a little less friends, can read themselves to very personal information. The information provided here is only appropriate as it is the net figures presented. And they don't have to be an indication of what is the right wealth or income. That is why I think it can be very difficult for them too. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party believe it is obvious that the press will have access to the information provided, while at the same time considering that it is difficult to control what the tax lists are used for. The point is, what are these tax lists used for? They are used by the press and the media to unfold very personal things about individuals in the communities. In some municipalities, e.g. in the municipality of Rana, I get a purchase of the tax list for five municipalities for 25 kroner. That's what I call the commercial use of these lists. It's a gross violation of privacy. And I guess you can't even say to be straightforward that this is good journalistic work. Some equations are also changed along the way. For example: The 1995 Equation Year saw more than 200 000 changes in the Equation Determination, and 1995 is an average year, not a peak year. In one of the comments of the Committee's members from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, I feel in a way that they meet themselves at the door. They refer to the public interest, while pointing out that privacy needs to be taken into account in the presentation of those lists. I wonder what it's like in hops. Either you can publish these lists, or you don't. I believe in the heart that these representatives agree with us when we say that information on income, wealth and tax matters should not, as a general rule, be published without the consent of the taxpayers. That means, of course, that those who need the information will get them, but you can ask for the law first. A prohibition of publication will primarily apply to any unauthorised and commercial exploitation of the information, as well as a full or partial publication in newspapers, periodicals, Internet publishing, etc. In 1994, the Ministry of Justice set up a working group to assess the situation. The representative of the Data Protection Authority in this group, Guro Deletemark, asks in a specific note whether this distribution of tax information for different and undefined purposes violates a Convention on International Law. She also says that if there are still similarities between the public and the mass distribution of the tax lists, these tax information should be exempted from the public as is the tradition of many other countries to which we compare. The Data Protection Authority maintained the same thing when they commented on the same case that we are dealing with today, in 1997, i.e. if this equality is to be maintained, tax information must be avoided from the public. There is another argument that has also been used in this debate, and that is tradition. The Ministry of Finance shows, inter alia: until we've had this tradition at least back to 1863. But we actually have another and a slightly better tradition in this country. It's the tradition that the laws and rules that no longer have their right, that have no foothold in society, we change or remove. We've had a lot of laws and regulations in this country all the way back to the 1800s that were directly inhuman, so this argument that you can't remove a law because it has a long tradition, I don't buy. In any case, my conclusion is that general disclosure of tax lists must be prohibited, because the disadvantages to individuals are greater than the benefits to the public and because such disclosure violates the privacy and privacy of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e392	It's probably for the right, that the government has become so concerned with tradition. It hasn't been. Right has respect for tradition, but everything in a way. A tradition that was well based on social relationships other than those we are now facing is ripe for revision. In particular, one might say that some of the purpose of publishing tax lists was to control the public and control itself in relation to neighbours. In time, we have been obliged to provide information directly to the tax administration, which did not exist before, so that the control task – the individual control task – that was part of this tradition, is no longer there. It has been quite crucial for me. I have the same liberal dilemma as the representative of Terje Johansen explained. So my conclusion is different anyway. I like openness, I like a press that can dig for the most part, but with respect to reporting, I have to say that this is an area where the press does nothing but just hit lists. The journalistic work, as it is called, around the tax lists is practically nonexistent. It's almost a shame to use the term "journalistic work" about lists you just hit. The most comprehensive journalistic work I've seen is that you take pictures of the houses on the addresses – you don't need more than a telephone directory to get to – and you may picture the people who live in the house, to the extent that you have an overview, that is. in so far as they have income. Nor is this a comprehensive picture of either consensual or housing conditions. You don't know where the housing is de facto, or how to distribute the assets. In addition, I also have to say, and that is probably some of the reasons why there is no particular journalistic work on this, that the lists do not provide comprehensive information – something more of course for ordinary taxpayers, ordinary personal incomes, but for commercial incomes they do not necessarily give a comprehensive picture. Or to put it another way: it's in the deductions and the valuation criteria that the truth is, and you're not told from the tax lists. So the belief that this is going to reveal real wealth relationships, real distributions of wealth or real income is not that comprehensive if you first wanted to dig into this. We have ended up in a different position now than in 1997, but I will not go for the absolute prohibition. I believe there should be opportunities for access to the tax lists from e.g. post-concession credit information companies. It's a legitimate purpose they have. The legal purpose is, inter alia, to: ensuring other traders against major losses by dealing with people such as: is unable to pay, or is unable to pay, e.g. may reveal false information that individual attempts to provide. I believe that is a legitimate purpose. So you could say, shouldn't it be that the individual gave permission to do so? No, I really don't think so, because those who want to refuse are the ones you're looking for in part. So I think that's not practical. That is why we have voted in favour of the proposal that there should be a general prohibition on the publication of the tax lists, so they belong to the individual's property, but it should be possible to grant a concession for access to the tax lists if there is a specific need for information about the individual taxpayer, and I have mentioned here, for example, credit information companies. I think this dilemma is reasonably well balanced. Finally, if publication of the tax lists had any meaning in revealing tax evasion, I must say that my conclusion was probably different. But I can't see they have either. With the tax rules we have today, this is not necessary. And with that duty of duty, for example. of property, of interest income, of fund income, of stock positions, etc. which is now automatically given to ordinary taxpayers, I cannot see that it has this type of reason anymore. That is why this conclusion – and I refer to the proposal from the Right referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e405	Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e408	I have basically said the principle which is to say, but I am very surprised at the representative Foss' reason to oppose this proposal. He justifies it because it is not journalistic work to reproduce what had to be in the tax lists. I can't just understand for my life that Per-Cristian Foss has anything to do with it. This hall – and that is the basic principle of a democracy – should not edit the country’s newspapers or media. That's what the court should do, rather the government should do. That distribution of responsibilities lies in the principle of power distribution. And when representatives of big business allow themselves to say that the reason for not publishing is that you can see that the papers are not doing a good enough journalistic work, you are respectfully reporting for a very thin reason. I have no problem seeing that much of what is published around the tax lists, not necessarily brilliant digging, brilliant journalistic work, but it is not my business to have an opinion on how these newspapers are edited. If there's an outrage, the intrusion of individuals, organs other than the Storting are going to have something to do with it. Then it is first the Press Professional Committee and later, possibly, criminal law, if there are very serious violations. Editors in all the country's newspapers are responsible for what's under pressure. It also means that if information in the tax lists is wrong, it will be free for the individual citizen to have it corrected after talking to the newspaper – I will feel safe about that. I hope for the representative Foss' part that this was not what he meant. But that's what he said, and it's in itself very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e424	I can fill Djupedal's hope and correct his record. I have not said that the reason we want a general ban on the publication of tax lists is poor journalistic work or a desire to intervene in how the newspapers are edited. It would be completely abominable. Some of these reasons I've never given. But what I've pointed out is that when the majority wants the tax lists published and uses the reasons for journalistic freedom, etc., I don't think that's a good reason. And I've tried to point out that the information you actually get through the tax lists hardly provides any basis for going on with journalistic work. I have great respect for journalistic work, business journalism, for example, which reveals cheating and fantasy. It's a kind of journalism we've had a lot of lately. Very much of it is highly competent – not everything, but a lot. I see that as a joyous development. But none of this would be affected by the publication of tax lists or any of them. This is not where the information may be based. So my wish is not to go into journalistic work; my wish in that regard is actually to focus on privacy. And I think that publishing the tax lists without comments, i.e. just selling them as information, does not actually give a correct picture of income and wealth ratios.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e432	Øystein Djupedal has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e435	I notice that the representative Foss now is substantially more spooky than he was in his first post, and I think that was very wise. The representative Foss moved into a minefield he had difficulty getting out of, and I'm glad that this clarification now came, because it is necessary for the Greatness's reputation as well. But what remains is: we have nothing to do with how to judge journalically the information contained in the tax lists. I believe that one reason for that, as I assume Per-Christian Foss will disagree on a political basis, is that it is itself a journalistic point that they show that there are many in this society that do not contribute as one should to the community. There is also information that emerges, namely that there are many that are zero-tax providers but with large assets and large revenues. For example, over many years the Norwegian press has had the spotlight on this. There have been debates in this room — and fortunately also suggestions — to reconstruct the tax gaps with which some smart people have seen themselves serving.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e442	When the representative Øystein Djupedal says to the representative Foss that he should be subdued, I'm going to eat my ears, because there's an area called Øystein Djupedal that knows a lot about. I think there is one perspective that has been completely absent in SV's presentation of this matter, and it is that the tax lists that are now being published are often not even journalistically processed. We have examples from cities in Norway where the network companies have posted the entire tax list online, so you can go in and check everyone – the neighborhood and the whole city. There are actually several people who have responded, they think that legal certainty is threatened, and then I don't think primarily of those who have a lot of wealth and a lot of income. In one of our cities a newspaper had drawn up an entire gate, they had supposedly drawn up the houses, and had so stated the property and income conditions of those who live there. There were actually several people who lived in the street, who didn't think it was particularly nice that the whole city should know that their income conditions had changed dramatically. It could be linked to disability, it could be linked to illness, etc. It is from a privacy point of view that one might think it is right that one's income and wealth relationships also become between one's self and the equality office, the public, especially if one has come into a situation where what is related to the development of income does not concern the public, and then I think of those who have become disabled or ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e451	I have to admit that I had not intended to speak in this debate, but it will not be easy to let go when the representative Djupedal comes up with relatively special explanations about his relationship with this in publishing tax lists. I will agree with him in one thing, namely that we have nothing to judge the journalistic work. I agree. But it is not the core of this case either. Whether the tax lists are published in the newspapers, on the Internet or in the Equations Offices, the very essence of this question is whether we as individuals should have the right to go and look at other people in the cards. That's what this is all about. Whether we can access it via a newspaper, via the Internet or by visiting the Equation Office, I think it is relatively secondary to the case. I react to the representative, Djupedal, trying to present this as an attempt to protect them he defined as the ‘cax’ or the ‘rich ones’. I actually think that this is a problem that is probably so tough in small communities, where you can easily look at each other in the maps, where everyone knows everyone and how transparency can actually be a problem. I think the word 'openness' is being abused in this case, because in most other issues where transparency is being discussed, the people's right of access to public administration is the main concern. That's what I think is a distinction that it's important to draw in such a case. And I have to say that I think the representative of Djupedal is very good if, using net figures, produced over the tax lists, he can figure out which tax holes some people have turned away by using. For it is not possible to reveal it on the basis of the net figures and tax lists. So trying to argue that you're going to maintain this because you're going to take those that don't contribute, take those that are zero tax collectors, or take those that find new tax holes to get away, with all due respect, is completely wrong. If you think that the tax system and the basis are not well designed, you do that job in this house, in the Ministry of Finance and in the tax department. And that gets to be one side of the case. What this is about is whether we're going to go between as individuals and look at each other in the cards. At some point you have to increase the level of privacy and let us keep individual data for ourselves. When Djupedal says that it must be up to the courts to decide whether or not to violate individuals, we as proposers believe that allowing this to happen is in itself a violation of the individual. It's not a good tradition because if it's been around since 1863, and you don't have to maintain such arrangements that probably came about for quite another reason when they were established in their time. I think one must sort of hold the debate at the level it deserves to be. It is a matter of privacy, and not a question of how Øystein Djupedal should try to take tax cheaters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e462	Very short since I've had the word twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e467	That's right! The representative is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e470	I now understand why the UK has sometimes come to many – let's say – remarkable and original tax policy conclusions. When they are looking for tax collectors or zero-tax collectors in the net figures and in the preliminary tax statements, a lot of, yes, interesting but original conclusions can be drawn. I have not – just to repeat it – attacked journalistic work, but expressed considerable understanding that it is difficult to carry out journalistic work on the basis of such figures that do not really cover neither wealth nor income. Then there is a great deal to know about the valuation criteria, among other things. for different property items, and it is not always easy to understand. Otherwise, I am a strong supporter of transparency in accounting matters. We have voted in Stortinget for transparency about options, about benefits and about extra pay, and for things to be included in accounts, in notes and in annual reports. I guess that's one of the things that, among other things. have given us more debate on this and also increased transparency in business. I think that is very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e479	The President sees that the representative Øystein Djupedal is asking for the floor for a reply, but to a brief comment, there is no chance of a reply. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e495	I am recording how much interest it seems that this case has for those who are dealing with it. When we promoted this Document No. The 8 proposal, it was based on the fact that the currency compensation rules are perceived as unreasonable, very unfair, by students studying abroad, and rightly so. What we wanted was to repeat what we said in 1997 about the state having to bear responsibility for the fluctuations in exchange rates, not the individual student. We want rational regulation, simple and cost-effective procedures. We don't have that today. I do not see that what is available at the moment will give us this either. We in the Progress Party also want to put the search light in the course of proceedings. I was in the middle of that we took this up in 1997, and that's quite correct. We then got a promise, or a decision, that this would change immediately, but it has still not changed in such a way that the students are harmless. This is a long procedure, where students live to some extent in uncertain ways. It's reflected in the amount of work that we have here on the Storting at least twice per. years. At every budgetary procedure I've attended, we've been visited and informed about the situation. This takes time. Furthermore, the same procedure is repeated at each and every review of the revised budget. This takes more time. Now it has become clear that it is not only the students who have this problem, but also part of the educational institutions, who are required to buy study places abroad. Nor do they receive compensation for the currency fluctuations involved and have to cover it above their regular budgets, which goes beyond the offer they can make to the individual student. This means that it is even more necessary to look at these rules, which appear to have been adopted politically. The competence of students who are on their own initiative and the students who are there because they have bought places, adding Norway, is considerable, especially in a globalised society. Norway does not have the great potential to develop into total isolation. Therefore, it is also a question of whether it is desirable for Norway to train all its students internally in Norway at all times. Then we're talking about the question of future higher education and research, because if we don't value foreign students and don't value exchange programmes high enough, we get isolation, and that will later affect our relationship with both higher education and research. What may be a problem, however, is that some of these students do not seem to be returning home again, but there is another debate. There will be a debate on the opportunities for these to become full-time and interesting jobs in Norway. It has also been known that our original proposal for a solution would cause problems with the repayment of the loans. I have also heard that argument before. This does not mean correctness, because when the loans, scholarships or schemes are first calculated, it is clear that there is no one who thinks that it is initially calculated in currency, but in Norwegian kroner. That starting point is not a big problem to deal with. As far as our original proposal is concerned, it has not been promoted again. It's for the students themselves, because we know that it's going to be downgraded. We didn't want to expose these students to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e512	The issue in this matter has been dealt with in the Committee in the past and has been promoted on a number of occasions in the public debate. An overall committee supported in the autumn of 1998 in the context of the examination of the 1999 State budget principle that the State Loan Fund for Education is being charged or gains from fluctuations in exchange rates. The Committee provided that a new system for the calculation and payment of aid should be in place for the 2000-2001 academic year. Later, both during the budgetary procedure in autumn 1999 and during the review of the revised national budget in spring, a new and improved model could be introduced from the same date, i.e. from the 2000-2001 academic year. The majority of the Committee — all parties except the Advance Party — indicates that this year the Loan Fund has changed the procedures for disbursement to foreign students. Now there is a post-calculation of the course for both the autumn and spring semester. The majority also points to three important elements in connection with the new procedures of the Loan Fund. Firstly, the time between the date of calculation and payment must be as short as possible. Secondly, the majority believe that fees and additional grants must also be included in this model. Thirdly, the majority have pointed out that some students have to relate to a currency different from the currency of the student country. For these students, it should be clarified how it can be compensated for the currency fluctuations. On this basis, the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, has recommended to the Stortinget that the proposal be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e523	I join the final speaker, who gave a foundation for the plural's comments in this matter. A few clarifications are required. It is true, as the representative Evje said, that this matter has been dealt with several times in the past. The right has raised this issue, and it is correct that the Progress Party has given its support at several times. What is important here is that it is not the students who are supposed to bear the risk and be currency speculators – it must be on the state. When we've chosen not to go into the arrangement that this is going to be converted into the currency of the corresponding country from the first day, it comes out that these are also the repayment pages. No matter what this will have to switch back at some point. That's the background because we don't want to go further than we do today. We think here we've found a system that's for everyone to live with, and we're open to any improvement later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e532	I will first be allowed to draw attention to something that must have been a misunderstanding. It reads «the recommendation of the Committee». This is a unanimous committee in which the Progress Party is also involved in the Committee's recommendation. I just want to point that out. When the representative Løvik says we've been kind of a tailhang to the Right in this case, I don't remember it, but I want to remind him of the debate that Carl I. Hagen led in comparison with the State Council Lilletun in 1997. Maybe it can make the representative Løvik get some swings on that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e541	This is not the time for getting history written, rewriting or referencing. I just want to refer to Stortingstidende, as I would recommend to the representative Evje, to read and find out that it was Document No. The 8th proposal by the Right-Representatives Jan Petersen and Siri Frost Sterri, which was submitted in 1997, which Right-Run and which received support from the Progress Party, which was the reason why this matter really took off. Storing time will provide the necessary clarification. I find no reason to go further on this page of the debate, which is quite uninteresting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e548	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e556	Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e5926	During the debate, Ms Solberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the rules of public registration so that students can choose to register in the municipality in which they live during the study period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e5953	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr L. Stag, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, from Per-Kristian Foss on behalf of the Right An alternative is first to vote between the position and the proposal of the Progress Party and then over the proposal of the Right. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: «The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to prohibit the publication of tax lists.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19.ana.ud1500e5983	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a ban on the publication of the tax lists, in combination with a system of concession for access to the tax lists, where specific information on the individual taxpayer is needed.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party will vote in favour of the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's confirmed.
