ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e27	The following called alternates have taken their seats: 1st@item: inlistbox For Akershus County: Anita Orlund2. For Telemark County: Marthe Scarning Lund
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e43	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e48	I propose Øyvind Korsberg as President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e53	Mr. Øyvind Korsberg has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today and for the rest of the current week. The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e58	On behalf of the representative, Lodve Solholm and myself, I propose the creation of a system of senior representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e63	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e66	On behalf of the representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to make a private proposal on the introduction of the right of students to free choice in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e72	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e93	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Tore Tønne State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Council Olav Akselsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e112	An overall increase has, on various occasions, underlined the desire to facilitate gas for domestic use. The possibilities for this that lie within, inter alia, industrial development and production, as well as in the transport sector, will bring significant environmental benefits. I am familiar with the planned gas project in Bergen that the Government will support over the state budget of 20 million. NOK, and, of course, look positive at the possibilities that open up with it. However, the central parties are not pleased that this support is given over the entry for energy saving and alternative renewable energy, which is thereby severely weakened. We must therefore come back to this in the further work on the State budget. My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy: What is the Government's strategy and progress regarding the use of domestic gas, especially in terms of industrial development and in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e123	First, I am pleased that there is so much support in Stortinget to spend more money and to stimulate more use of gas in Norway. It has great advantages when it comes to both exploiting this resource commercially in Norway, and not least in relation to the environment. In connection with the government budget presented, my department has a plan for how to use the gas to a greater extent than is the case today. In addition, the Ministry of Transport has just presented a road and road traffic plan, where gas is more remarkable than it has been until today. I hope that the relevant Storting Committees will support the work done by the Government in this area. So the actual permissions that we're proposing. The most important thing for my part is not what post this has been posted under, but that one now gets to do what the Storting has said this year after year, simply to help use the gas to a greater extent than is the case today. I have only used the schemes that have been up to today, and until today it has been that gas has sorted under the same chapter as an additional and renewable energy source, and I have seen no basis for changing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e134	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and just point out that in terms of what is in the leaders from the bulk of the population, it is about the post that goes on alternative renewable energy sources, and I record that the Council of State defines gas as part of this. The Prime Minister has recently visited Grenland, where he presented his intention to supply gas to Poland. My further question to the Council of State is this: To what extent will the Government influence the choice of routes for any future pipeline, so that other areas of the country – the South and the Border region with its centre of gravity in the Hier Island and Rafnes businesses – will be able to easily connect to such a pipeline? And to what extent will the Government be able to influence the choices made by the companies regarding the location of or trajectory choices for this pipeline?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e141	I am very pleased that there are now negotiations with Poland to sell gas to the country. I hope that it will be possible to do that. If we do that, it opens up completely new possibilities for spreading the gas in Norway. It is a clear objective from our point of view that the gas should be available if you want to have gas, whether it is in central Norway, in the West or in the Border Region, or along the Oslo soil for that cause. Of course, we will try to combine different things when planning the different gas pipelines. The most important provision for this is that we get a commercial agreement on hall for Poland. If we do that, I'm very optimistic when it comes to bringing gas, for example. to Grenland, which will be positive for that area, very positive for the industry there, but not at least a great advantage when it owes it to exploiting larger parts of the gas industrially in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e148	There will be follow-up questions – Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e151	This is the same question — the way in which the gas is to be used in Norway. Can I perceive the Council's response so that if one comes to terms with a commercial contract with Poland, will one also plan an infrastructure covering both the South and Border coasts, so that it can become a holistic thinking in relation to the exploitation of this gas? It is very important that those areas that have great value creation – and not least a value creation that goes into export – also get part of the environmentally friendly technology that one can develop in connection with this. Can I perceive the Council of State so that both the South, the Border and other areas in question will be included in such a holistic plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e160	I am pleased with the enthusiasm shown here to make greater use of the natural resource gas in Norway. I hope that it will be followed up in the budgetary processes that are now going to be in the Grand Duchy, where there is also a concrete proposal for money for this area. I would like to remind you that we have four-fold efforts in this area in the proposal by the Government. It's like there's different plans in Norway. I'm an enthusiastic follower of all those plans, and I hope it's possible to realize them. I believe that the possibility of getting it done is greater if we first get a pilot project where we really try this out and in that way show the positive sides by using the gas in a completely different way from today. I just want to encourage those in the South and in Grenland who have ambitions and plans, to work further and intensely, and I want to be a great supporter of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e168	Hallgeir H. Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e171	The working party is not known to be the offensive party in environmental policy. Let me say, however, that if you put a little bit of gas in order to phase out oil, it'll be a better option. My question is related to the new body to develop alternative renewable energy and to be added to Trondheim. I think it makes sense to move things out of Oslo, but is it natural to put a fossil fuel, i.e. gas, into this body? Would it not be more natural to create near a separate gassing organisation? That's one question. And how can the Council of State defend taking funds from an already cut-off alternative renewable energy budget to invest in gas? Why doesn't an offensive do anything when you know that one has the entire size in the back of an offensive gassing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e178	A quadrupling of effort is, in my view, an offensive bet. If the Storting wants even more money for this area, I should of course be happy to use that money. I cannot remember in the representative Langeland's claim that the Labour Party is not offensive when it comes to the environment. It is also true that one of the strongest reasons for using gas in Norway is the environment, simply because one can phase out other, more impurising energy sources. When it comes to the new agency we want to create, I have said in the government budget that I will come back to the Storting with a proposal on it during the fall. It will therefore be the Stortinget that will take a final position on both the content and organisation of the new body. But the goal has been to get a more powerful organization. Today, it is the same people in the NVE who deal with applications for renewable energy projects and applications for gas projects. I can't understand that there should now be any basis to split it up into different organs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e187	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e190	The question goes to the Minister of Health. We have a good health service in Norway, but not better than that we can improve it, and the Minister of Health has shown strong will and power to tackle some bottlenecks, among others. in the case of the unclear distribution of responsibilities between the State and the counties. The size change was decided in 1997 by the government entering and financing a substantial part of the hospital’s operations related to hospital equipment. That plan was calculated at NOK 5.3 billion, of which the government would take approx. Three billion dollars on your own coat. There are now some doubts as to whether this plan will be implemented during the period adopted. What is the Minister of Health’s assessment of the implementation of the investments in accordance with what the Stortinget has said and wanted?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e199	Firstly, I believe there should be no doubt that the plan for equipment acquisition in Norwegian hospitals that Stortinget has adopted will be implemented. I consider it a very important part of the Minister of Health's responsibility to contribute to this, and I attach great importance to the implementation of the plan as laid down by the Stortinget. Based on what has happened so far, I also have every reason to believe that the plan will be implemented according to those assumptions. Per. Today, in fact, the acquisitions within this plan are ahead of the plan, i.e.: the hospital owners, since mainly county councils, have made overall decisions on investment in equipment at a faster rate than that envisaged. The plans we have received also show that the county councils are largely at the maximum of the acquisitions required by the plan. There is also reason to believe that this is a plan that will be implemented as far as the assumptions are concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e206	I note with satisfaction that the State will honour its obligations. I would have waited for that to happen. I think it's an important clarification based on what I've registered, that it's created a ambiguity that probably wasn't the basis for it. Good equipment for hospitals is a prerequisite for improving the health care system. However, I have noticed that some states seem to be following in relation to what is the framework of the plan and the pace of progress. The question will therefore be: will these county councils, and also when the hospitals, get their fair share of the money if they come all the way to the end of the period, even in the last year? Will one then be able to get full counting based on the rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e213	It's true, as the representative Kristoffersen points out, that there are some hospital owners who are in line, even if you are in total ahead of you. It's a little too early now to say whether this is going to be a problem for these hospital owners collectively. But what is certain, at least, is that even if they come all the way to the end of the period, the state will refund what it is planned to refund, and the last payment year in this respect is 2003. We will, of course, follow up on these in order to look at the reasons why they are planned and, where appropriate, to take specific action towards them, so that the plan can be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e218	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e221	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Public hospitals are approaching billions of deficits in the current year. This is no surprise to me. I suggested in Stortinget this spring that the result could be this way, when the government proposed an additional allocation to the hospitals of just 700 million. kr, while it was documented a deficit of a total of SEK 2.1 billion. According to the Evening Post for 28 B.C.E. the Minister for Health shall have stated that it is ‘bad ethics’ on the part of hospitals to present operating deficits. My question is: Does the Minister of Health really think it is unethical of hospitals to use personnel and equipment capacity to treat as many patients as possible in the current year? And does the Minister of Health really believe that the budgetary balance is more important than the treatment of seriously ill and suffering people?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e230	No, I don't think it's bad ethics to treat as many patients as hospitals have the opportunity to treat. What I pointed out in a talk to which it was referred in the evening post, and to which the representative Alvheim refers, is that even hospitals – like everyone else – must operate within the framework that their owners believe must be the basis for their activities through democratic decisions. In this respect, I found reason to point out that it is not that you can say that the framework does not apply to our business. Where they are defined by the democratic political bodies set up to establish such a framework, hospitals also have an obligation to ensure that their activities are maintained within them. In this context, I believe that it is not socially sound if they say that this is a framework that does not apply to us. But there's always a balance in this business, like in everybody else, how to meet several different goals. I have thus seen the understanding that you can get into situations where you have big problems in keeping within the framework – whether they are economics, or they are technical – but then we also have to deal with it through the proper democratic decision-making processes that we have for it, and not say it is okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e238	I thank the Council of State for the answer. After receiving input-based funding, it is no longer easy to adapt operations to the budget. The ratio is that a penny cut in treatment offers in addition to 3 kroner in lost income, so that treatment reductions without redundancy have no savings effect. Does the Minister of Health not believe that in such a situation in the current year, the hospital has done the right thing, namely to treat as many patients as possible, even if this has led to operating deficits and budget deficits?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e247	As I say, I believe it is right for hospitals to treat as many patients as they can, within the limits they have. It is also true that there are aspects of non-ideal input finance that make it difficult for hospitals or hospital owners to calculate exactly what they can do without conflicting with the framework. There are conditions that I think are well taken care of through the additional appropriations that have come in the past and that in this respect will certainly come in the future, to correct it. However, we also need to be aware that there are other reasons than increased patient treatment for some hospitals to have problems with their financial framework, and this cannot be justified by the fact that they treat as many patients as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e252	There will be follow-up questions – Are Nose.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e255	It is true, as the representative Alvheim pointed out, that there was a consensus that the needs of hospitals in our spring were SEK 2.1 billion. The government proposed to raise 700 million. NOK, and Stortinget plus 520 million. kr. So there's a significant lag in the financial situation of hospitals. My question is, how does the Council of State feel that hospitals are going to get on their feet again financially, and how will the Council of State deal with the gap between the need for which there is an agreement of SEK 2.1 billion and what the hospitals have now achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e260	First of all, I would like to stress that it is not the case that all Norwegian hospitals are in an economic crisis. It's not like that at all. Evenly, I would like to say that the sector is in a quite good financial situation, at least a satisfactory situation. But there are some hospitals – and some very large and important hospitals – that have very serious financial problems, so I do not take away that these are unresolved problems. What I've said about it before, and as I can repeat, is that it's over time that it's evolved such a financial crisis. It will also take time to get out of it. It is not that these financial problems can be solved by a one-off grant, even if one can prove that the economic need is present. We have to work on this over time. That's also added up. Nor is it the case that the increase that the Stortinget did was intended to solve the whole problem, or the whole gap to which the representative Neess refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e265	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e268	The Council of State here repeatedly says that of course you should treat as many patients as possible, and ends every time: of course within the framework. Then our task, both the Council of State and ours, is to ensure that you have the framework to which you are going, so that sick people in this country get the treatment they need. Because precisely in these days at least, and as it has been shown over time, there are no financial problems on the part of the Stortinget that are the case here, because here you have room to give appropriations to the hospital sector so that you can treat more patients in this country. In that case, the steps taken by the Minister of Health in this budget are not sufficient to change this situation. The state councils were made aware of the situation with the large deficits in hospitals before, among other things. revised national budget. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State follow this up, so that the frameworks are increased and patients can thus be guaranteed the treatment they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e273	I have to repeat that there are many reasons why some hospitals have financial problems. It is wrong to say that the whole reason for this is that they have treated more patients than before. To a very large extent, financial support has been provided to increase patient treatment in line with the target set by the size of the population, an increase of 2 pst. This year. Some hospitals have sessioned beyond that. It is not surprising that it requires increased funding, and there are also additional appropriations for it, but there are also other reasons why some hospitals have financial problems. I think it's wrong to present it as a result of them treating more patients, and just automatically believe that those problems can be solved by sending more money into that sector. There are other problems you have to deal with, and they have other things to do than increased appropriations from the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e278	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e281	The question goes to the Minister of Health: The TV 2 news last night showed an interesting report from Sweden, which shows that the Swedes have done what we in Norway have not done, to get on the offensive of health policy, and in particular to improve the hospital service and the offer to the hospital service users. This has been made clear by the extensive use of the unit price, the release of the individual hospital and the free choice of hospitals for patients, but above all by separating the ordering function, which lies with the loins, from the delivery function, which is in the liberated hospitals. This has led to significant performance improvements with very modest increases in resource use. In Norway, the picture is the other way around, we're increasing resource use all the time, but the results are barely measurable. Is the Council of State right to learn from the Swedish experience and action, and how will he proceed in this case to learn that lesson?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e288	The answer to the first question is yes. If I am going to go further, I would say that several of the measures to which it was referred and which have been implemented in the Swedish hospital sector are also being prepared on the Norwegian side. Others are also working on it, and I look forward to coming back to Stortinget and being able to explain it. The single price financing, as the Swedes pointed out in this case, we also have. It also has its weaknesses, they need to be improved, but it is a system that has led to increased patient treatment also in Norwegian hospitals, and it can be expanded and developed to improve in this respect. When it comes to the release of hospitals, I can say that we are not just going to learn from others in that area. We also have proposals that we are working on in the area of the independence of hospitals that are now state-owned, and we also want to promote a similar development for hospitals that are currently in county administration. In fact, the free choice of hospitals is to the extent that it is both adopted and intended to enter into force and that some already practice. And it is absolutely right that a better development of the ordering function in relation to the supply function in this sector is very important for further efficiency. So I have great faith that we should not only learn from what others are doing, but that we should also be able to implement the decisions taken on this type of action in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e298	I thank you for your answer. What's occupying me is the time perspective of this. I have registered that the Government has flagged that it sees the need for major reforms in the institutional health service. However, so far there has been little more than internal noise in the Workers' Party in terms of ownership – state or county ownership – and there is an urgent need to go beyond that. For ownership itself, there is no problem if it is not combined with the other measures. That's why I'm going to challenge the Council of State once more in this matter of separating the ordering function, because at my discretion it's the key to making better use of resources. When it comes to separating the ordering function from the delivery function and equalising private and public institutions with regard to providing the services at a reasonable price and of good quality, will the Council of State follow this up? And how will he follow it up in the Norwegian system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e307	First of all, I would like to say that what we are talking about here in the hospital sector is very large and extensive change processes that will in any case take time. If it is appropriate and appropriate to carry out a transfer of hospitals out of the administration they are today — whether the state or the county — and into independent enterprises, respect must be given to large, very large and complex processes. I am so far in no way disappointed by the pace that has been in this process since the Government joined. I think we have come a long way in working on this already, so I cannot agree that the only result is internal noise. It is good preparation for these processes. But I fully agree that then come the other measures that are pointed out here, and I will follow them up. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e312	There will be follow-up questions - Sonja Irene Sjøli
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e315	The need for reform is wide-ranging. The health crisis is obvious, not least for patients. 70,000 patients have waited over three months, and there are 5,000 who experience interruptions in the waiting period guarantee. In the context of the Patient Rights Act, the Working Party and the Centre Parties agreed that patients should be entitled to be assessed, but only a right to treatment within the limits set by the hospital capacity. And that's the capacity that's the problem for patients. Can the Minister of Health now explain what right to treatment patients really get from New Year's, and what deadlines should apply? What will be the consequences if these deadlines are broken, and what will be the consequences for patients? And will the Minister of Health support Right-wing proposals on patients' rights to treatment at public expense abroad if there is no capacity in Norwegian hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e324	It's true as we point out, it doesn't help much if you have a right to a treatment if your capacity isn't there. We just have to realize that there will be a restriction – a physical restriction – on patient treatment. So it's natural that it's also reflected. The big challenge, therefore, is to ensure that we somehow have the capacity to fulfil patients’ rights to treatment according to the law’s intention and letter. That's what's the big challenge. That's what we need to put in the cancers to make sure that we're moving forward. I am not given today to say to what extent we will be there when the Patient Rights Act enters into force, but there is no doubt that this must be the area of intervention, including ensuring satisfactory patient treatment abroad in cases where we are unable to obtain that capacity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e331	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e334	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy a question. The background material for the hearing on the new gas power plant emission permits was a note from the Ministry of Oil and Energy covering emissions from any new gas power plant. They built, among other things, on notes from the Statistical Central Bureau and from the Freshhouse. These reports have been used by the Ministry of Oil and Energy to demonstrate or to indicate that the construction of new gas power plants and emission permits for new gas power plants in Norway will lead to a decline in total CO2 emissions in Europe. Now it turns out that both of these reports very much underline the uncertainty that can lie behind such a type of argument, and that emissions are at least as likely to increase as they are falling. What arguments does the Ministry of Oil and Energy now have for the construction of new gas power plants when it is unlikely that CO2 emissions in Europe will fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e343	The President makes the representative Halvorsen aware of the clock, time and constraints.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e346	Arguments for building gas power plants in Norway are many. One is security of supply. We are today in the situation that we have to import force from abroad. The second is that we want to use a Norwegian natural resource in Norway, and the third is the environment. Not least, it's important. It is such that there are numerous research reports and public authorities that determine one thing, namely that the ‘probability’ of CO2 emissions being reduced by the construction of gas power plants is greater than the opposite. This is also the case for the two reports referred to here by Kristin Halvorsen. I have them both with me, and I can only look up e.g. page 1 of the report of the Frischsenteret. They say that as far as they can see, they will collect CO2 emissions in Western Europe and that the reduction will be greatest if gas power plants are built in Norway. There are a number of research reports and public services, etc. which confirms the same, namely that it is most likely that gas power plants built in Norway will contribute to the reduction of the total CO2 emissions in Norway. And of course, every research report and every researcher has to take a certain amount of rest, because things can happen under the circumstances. Nevertheless, it is quite clear, quite unambiguously proven, that emissions will go down. The opposite is that if we don't build these gas plants in Norway, emissions will go up. As far as I can understand, there's not a single documentation, not a single public body, not a single research institution that has come up with a result that says it's most likely that emissions will go up. Therefore, we believe that what the Minister for the Environment has now done is to carry out a professional assessment of the material available, and in the professional assessment, it has concluded that the ‘probability’ of emission reductions is greater than the ‘probability’ of emission reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e353	I have to say, I am somewhat surprised that the oil and energy ministers are so high on the ground, because the same reports used by the oil and energy ministers to justify their emissions permit and to argue that CO2 emissions in Europe are going to fall, also underline several other scenarios that prove that emissions are equally likely to rise. I think it's starting to look like a pattern in the gas power case, namely that the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection are picking out the sections and scenarios of the reports they themselves have produced that suit themselves, while the uncertainty and counter-arguments are in no way underlined. The head of the European Environment Agency killed the arguments of the Norwegian Government on the gas power issue. He said that there are no possible arguments for, or evidence that two Norwegian gas power plants can lead to reduced CO2 emissions. [[The President clubs.]] Isn't it simply the way the government manipulates information in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e360	The President reiterates that verbal emissions are time-limited. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e366	There is no manipulation in this matter. There is also no attempt to hold back the facts. In fact, we think that there are several people who should get involved in the facts of this case. Had it been, we might have dropped discussions like this. The reality is that we who are fans of gas power plants can point to a number of research reports and public services that have assessed this, while those who are opponents cannot refer to a single research report, not a single public authority in Norway, which claims that emissions will rise if we build gas power plants in Norway. It is therefore true that the Minister for the Environment has everything to say when, based on the reports available, she concludes that the ‘probability’ of CO2 emissions from the construction of gas power plants in Norway is greater than the opposite. We have research reports. I cannot say what this representative from this European Environment Agency has, but I think it is strange that one should use such an environmental pessimist as a reference for his policy, because what he says is that all coal-fired power stations should survive, and that would be the worst thing for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e375	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e378	What we are experiencing is a rough course away from a slippery safety that started with the Prime Minister saying that there was certainly a reduction in emissions abroad if we built gas power plants in Norway. Then it became most likely, and now it's most unclear. My question to the Council of State is: does not the Central Statistical Bureau and the Centre know their own best, and do they not know their own material when they say that the conclusions must be used with great caution, and that they do not give a clear picture? In fact, the Council of State is standing here and is now saying that he sees it as almost proven that emissions are being reduced, while those who have developed the basis on which a policy is based are most uncertain about the conclusion. Is it the case that these documents are used in addition to what is in the conclusions? And why does a manipulation, as Kristin Halvorsen said, use selective approaches and keep away from important elements when this is brought forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e383	I see it as a very serious debt when one claims that someone has manipulated the facts. That is not the case. What you've done in this case is try to compile what's available from facts and research reports. Obviously, then, every researcher has to acknowledge that under the circumstances, things can happen that do not realise what they have presented as a result of the research report. It is such that we, who are fans of building gas power plants, can hit the table with reports and distributions from public institutions, etc. As far as I know, those who are opponents have not yet produced a single document from a single institution that shows that CO2 emissions are likely to rise if we build gas power plants in Norway. That is why I believe that there is every possible reason to say that what the Minister for the Environment has done here is covered in the material that is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e388	Kjell Magne Bondevik – last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e391	We've had a lot of rounds about the gas power case here in Stortinget. I really didn't mean to say anything about it today, but like the oil and energy minister now goes out on the field, he's running a very big risk. I think I'll warn the Council of State against going so high in this case. The starting point was that the Ministry of Justice's law department said that for this to be within the pollution law, a high level of legal and actual certainty was required for total emissions to decrease. It has changed the government to the most likely going down. Already there the government has committed, at my discretion, a very risky grip. Then it turns out that the reports on which the Government is based, not at all, which the Council of State is now getting to say, clearly and unambiguously prove that emissions are going down. They don't say that, but they operate with a great deal of uncertainty. Research manager Bye of the Statistical Central Bureau says that their results need to be ‘assessed as uncertain. This suggests that the results should be used with caution’. That's the very opposite of what the Council of State has now done, and I have to ask, isn't he reading what their own researchers here have said?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e400	It is true that we are building our policies on reports that have been drawn up now and in connection with this issue being dealt with in 1997. These reports show that emissions are more likely to decline if we build gas power plants in Norway than if we did. In other words, it is more likely that emissions will rise if we do not build these gas plants in Norway. Thus, no one has been able to prove that one will have reduced emissions if one does not build these gas power plants in Norway, while those who are fans have repeatedly submitted reports, and I want to repeat what I have said: it is not, of course, that every report and every research report under the given circumstances will turn on. Nevertheless, the conclusions that we have to build on are written, and they say that with what we've laid down, the emission will go down. That is what we have on the basis of when the Minister for the Environment has dealt with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e407	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e410	I would like to ask the Minister of Health the following question: The Government of Stoltenberg, with the Minister of Health at the head, has gone in order for the State to take over and operate the hospitals. This happens despite the fact that the Workers' Party was opposed to the same question both in the spring of 1997 and in the last spring of 1999, and it does so before the Task Distribution Committee's setting has been completed. With regard to the state's acquisition of hospitals, it has been largely the somatic hospitals we've discussed. However, the efficient and good functioning of hospitals depends on a close relationship between hospitals and the entire treatment network. Somatic hospitals are organised and have a responsibilities close to, among other things, psychiatry, child protection, family protection, drug care and e.g. Ambulance service. Rehabilitation and rehabilitation must also be mentioned. We have heard very little about the consequences of coordination and coordination in connection with the Government's desire to take over the hospitals at the hands of the state. Can the Minister of Health now respond to how he will organise networks and coordination between the different disciplines and areas when hospitals are to be taken over by the State? This is especially important in relation to psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e419	It is, as I have said before, a very big matter which is being discussed here, and I can hardly go through in any detail how a state hospital might be organised, but I will immediately clarify any misunderstandings towards the fact that any acquisition would not include psychiatry. That's what it's got to do. It's both the somatic and the psychiatric institutions that we're talking about here. I would also like to say that the issues raised in relation to the borderline against other parts of the healthcare system are matters that I do not see as particularly problematic to solve, whether the ownership of these institutions is state or state-owned. Yes, a transition from county to state ownership will require that all these questions be clarified in detail, and that solutions are available to them. The transition itself, I have said, is a big deal and will be a relatively complicated matter. But I see so far no reason not to be able to solve these collaborative relationships and the boundaries between the hospitals that we're talking about and other health services as well, if not better, whether it's state ownership or it's county ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e426	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I find it almost alarming that there is no more thought of how this is to be done, especially when the government has such clockwork on a state acquisition of the hospitals. It's okay that the psychiatry should follow as part of the hospital system. But now we have the establishment of district psychiatric centers. We have the coordination with primary health services in the municipalities, and we have several links here that it is very unclear how it will come along, and I'll ask again: is it so that the district psychiatric centers belong to the psychiatry in the case? A county council called me yesterday and told me that the Health Department had said that out of six approved district psychiatric centers, they recommended that three were not established. Is this a pretense of state coordination policy and, where appropriate, over-management? It is from the Government that decisions are to be taken almost ‘where people live and work’. I'm now quoting the languages of the throne, I think, word to word. [[Loud violence]] Is it in line with the fact that one now takes over the hospitals on state hands and is going to control them through a bureaucratic state apparatus?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e438	It would not be in line with it if it were to take over the hospitals and control them through a central, bureaucratic state apparatus. That's not the idea either. I also have to say that several of the questions raised here by the representative, Mrs Glötvold, are under assessment. They are significantly more thoughtful than it is possible to express in a minute’s posts in a spontaneous question-answering debate. I have to ask for understanding that it is not possible to explain to them in any detail here. But I say, if this were to be the case, that hospitals will be local, regionally anchored. They will have governance bodies that want a local anchoring, and it is primarily through the governing bodies that it is established that the operation, including cooperation between state hospitals and e.g. the primary health service will be provided. But I repeat: I see no particular problems in this type of coordination, whether this is state or county owned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e443	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e446	I seem to be responding to the Minister of Health today when it comes to the possible state takeover of hospitals, giving added reason to wonder. He now says when it's about psychiatry, that he doesn't see this as anything further problematic. I think there's a reason to ask: what's the advantage? Here, Stortinget has facilitated both a law on health professionals, a law on patients' rights and also greater exemption from hospitals. Here, the size of the population wants to focus on both somatics, psychiatry, child protection and a strengthening of the drug field, and now both the county councils, they must add and patients must be subjected to severe changes in the discussions and the state that must be included for a period of time. My question is, where does the patient go?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e453	I must stress that all that is done by the State and by the Government in the health sector and the hospital sector must be guided by the patient’s concerns, taking into account the best possible treatment on the best possible basis and with equivalent quality wherever they are and where they live in the country. The aim is also to reform the ownership and organisation of hospitals. It is quite right, as has been said, that such a reform will be quite large and extensive, and that the transition itself will be a major challenge. But I have to say again that ownership as such should not mean the kind of uncertainty or change for neither healthcare professionals nor patients that this is about. It is the ability to organise the activities that are a main argument for changing ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e460	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e463	I allow myself to ask my main question to the Minister of Oil and Energy: In the note made by the Ministry of Oil and Energy on 26 June of this year, on the basis of which the Ministry of the Environment’s decision on gas power plants is based, the Ministry of the Environment states that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Ministry then concluded that there was uncertainty about the effect of Norwegian gas power plants on CO2 emissions in the Nordic region’. In addition, it says: ‘In the appeal proceedings, the SFT considered that the uncertainty was further enhanced under the Kyoto Agreement’. And on the other hand, ‘There is reason to stress that uncertainties relate to such model analyses’. Does the Council of State think that his way of expressing himself to the Storting today has reasonable intellectual and social humility in relation to the documents that actually exist, and also in relation to the Ministry of Justice's law department, which very clearly expressed the need to have a significant degree of security – in Norwegian folklore – when approaching this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e485	What's at the heart of the matter is that there are two statements. The only claim is that if we build gas power plants in Norway, this will lead to an increase in total CO2 emissions. And then there's a statement that goes the opposite. Those who claim that CO2 emissions will decrease in the Nordic region if a gas power plant is built have been able to demonstrate, through various research reports, compilations and by means of various public bodies, that the scenario is most likely to hit. So someone claims that this is something that we're going to ignore, we can't take it to heart. And then it has to be allowed to ask the relevant question: What basis is it based on? So it's the way that someone, using research reports, can guess his point of view. At the same time, I think that probability also suggests that the option, simply not to let build gas power plants, leads to higher CO2 emissions in the North than if one does. And that's what's at the heart of this case. Otherwise, of course, no research report or model can be proven by 100 pst. security. There is an uncertainty in each case, but we believe it is well documented that the uncertainty has been preserved in the documents provided by the Government. This is the best basis in which to answer this question. So it's so summed up that all the experience and all the knowledge we have in this area suggests that the chance of a drop in emissions is much greater than the chance of an increase in emissions. And then I think there's a basis for doing that here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e494	I will not burden neither the Stortinget nor the Council of State with any further quotations. I'm just observing that we're facing a state council, and a government that's drifting away from its proud, ranked and strong attitude when you fought for a cause you believed in, took an honest and open political settlement and laid down a government. In the face of reality, you are forced to see that what you proudly and proudly went into conflict with, was not what you thought. I find that in this case too, as in the IT Fornebu case, the government is in free flight away from the pride and rank that made it shine in their positions. We, who disagreed, had to find that they stood for something, but now we find that what they stand for is more and more uncertain and more and more unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e501	I have to admit that I am both proud and rank when it relates to the effort the Labour Party has made to use this energy source in Norway, because it will improve our security of supply, which will lead to the use of a natural resource that we currently export, and not least will help reduce CO2 emissions in the Nordic region. That is what I meant when I dealt with this matter in February, and that is what I mean today. And so no one can provide a single research report trying to document the opposite. Therefore, I believe that the evidence in this case lies with those who claim that CO2 emissions in the Nordic region will rise if we build gas power plants in Norway, and not the other way around. Now I'm not going to take the debate on what happened and didn't happen in connection with the resignation of the previous government. However, I would remind you that it was the government itself that went because they would not carry out what was the majority in Stortinget's will, a majority that has been here since 1996.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e508	There will be follow-up questions – Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e511	There is a more and more rare experience of this, because the Council of State called for professional reports that CO2 emissions can rise in the construction of these gas power stations. It is in the government's own material from the Statistical Central Bureau, which has been transmitted to the Stortinget, that it is found that it is professionally possible and, in fact, as likely as any other possibilities. I will once again give the Minister of Energy the opportunity to moderate his violent, sloppy statements somewhat. So we've seen that from being absolutely certain about reductions, the government's official version of the harvest has been that it's most likely, while today we're experiencing that the Council of State says it's a probability overweight. There's a glide away from the interpretation the law department laid down in March, and it might turn out to be a pretty serious situation. I will once again give the Council of State an opportunity to moderate the sloppy statements he has now made, which are far from what I perceive is the law department's basis for leaving these emissions within the pollution law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e519	I have a little difficulty understanding the question, because on the one hand Sponheim claims that I am involved in creating uncertainties about what will happen, and on the other hand he says that I am acting in a non-slip way – so a person should almost decide. What is the case is that we've been given the probability that emissions will go down. The opposite is no one who has made a prediction. So under certain given scenarios, there's a possibility that emission might go up, but it's a scenario that's less likely than those that tell you to drop out. So I want to turn this around, because if one of the least likely options were to be applied, then one of the most likely options would help to get out of the North. And I'm very happy that my party wants to lead a policy that allows us in this area to help bring down CO2 emissions in the Nordic region. That's what we do. to facilitate the construction of gas power plants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e524	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e527	The Council of State claims that it is those who do not want to build gas power plants who have the burden of proof in this case. I want to raise the opposite. Firstly, in a matter on which this principle of commodity law is based, we should consider it. Secondly, the law department’s assessment is clear: it must be legal and, in fact, likely that there will be a reduction in CO2 emissions. The government’s argument has received many shots for the bow, first from researcher Torstein A. Bye in the SSB, who claims that the analyses carried out by them must be handled with caution, then the EU’s environmental manager goes out and slaughters the gas power argumentation for the Government, and then also the Freshhouse researchers, who claim the same as the SSB researchers, that the conclusions must be used with caution. So in a reply earlier today, the Council of State says that the Government has based its conclusions on other reports, also reports back to 1997, when it has taken a stand on this matter. The Minister for the Environment said in a press release on 27 October: ‘The analyses are mainly based on modelling from the Frischsenter and the SSB.’» Is the Minister for the Environment wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e541	Today, the Minister for the Environment will answer a question from Mr Enoxen when this is the case, and I expect her to be able to do so. It was said that there should be a basis for the precautionary principle. If a reason leads to the precautionary principle, some research reports from public institutions have stated that the outlook is the greatest for emissions to be at least if one builds gas power plants in Norway. Therefore, the precautionary principle implies that one should do so. So it is said that these reports must be handled with caution. They must, of course, because all research material is uncertain because it is based on given statements. But what the Minister for the Environment has done is sum up all the material available in this area. A professional assessment has been carried out in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and a professional assessment has been carried out in the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and these assessments therefore conclude that the outlook is the greatest for emissions to go down – and we have taken this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e550	The President has some doubts as to whether we're getting something special, but he's taking the chance anyway. – Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e553	As I see it now, the Minister of Oil and Energy has two problems. One is that he produces the reports of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which the Ministry of the Environment has used, which are unambiguously clear in its conclusion on recommending emission permits for new gas power plants and stressing the Government's own justification. However, those reports cannot be used as a clear emphasis on the Government's conclusion, because they stress that the conclusions given are very uncertain – as the head of the Frischsenter does – and point two: the central statistical agency says that it can provide both negative and positive results. So the same reports that the government uses, we can use. The second thing that makes the Council of State have problems is that he later, as if the burden of proof were on the environmental movement and the environmental arguments in this case. The burden of proof lies in this case with the Government, which will grant an emission permit, but without proving that it actually results in reduced CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e558	The future cannot be proved, but it is possible to determine what will be the most realistic development using different calculations. It is true that these reports, which have been made clear in a neutral way in the annex that the Ministry of the Environment has produced to the Ministry of the Environment in this matter, also show that there is uncertainty, and that under the circumstances, the main conclusions of the reports will not pass. Nevertheless, we have used the material, the best material available, and summed up. Then we conclude that this is most likely to happen. It is therefore a conclusion that, in my view, is very robust and can easily be defended. And when that conclusion is there, it also leads to another conclusion, that if we don't build gas power plants in Norway, CO2 emissions will be right than if we do. Then I think there should be some documentation for the opposite position, and I cannot see that presented before or today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e563	The time for the oral Question Time is now over, and we go over to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e568	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Church, Education and Research, this question is moved and answered before question 30, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 9, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries, this question is moved and answered before question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 18, from the representative Einar Olav Skogholt to the Minister for Social Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 20, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. Question 21, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries who directs him. Question 22, from the representative Brother Yngve Rahm to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. Question 23, from the representative Valgerd Svarstad Haugland to the Minister for Transport, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 29, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e594	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘For the third consecutive year, the New Agenda Coalition initiative launched a ban on nuclear weapons and the revitalisation of nuclear disarmament activities for the UN General Assembly. Norway abstained from voting to N.A.C. in 1998 and 1999. Based on the amended text, now presented to the United Nations, and following the Spring Conference of Supervisors, will the Government this year aim to vote in favour of the N.A.C. initiative?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e603	Nuclear disarmament is one of the most important tasks on the international political agenda, and therefore a high priority task for the Government. On the Norwegian side, we made a significant effort to prepare the Sixth Conference of Supervisors for the NPT Agreement in April/May this year. I refer here to the statement I gave to the Stortinget. It was with great pleasure that we found that the outcome of the Supervisory Conference was far more successful than expected. The final document contains, among others: an action programme for disarmament, for which we have worked on the Norwegian side. However, I would like to point out in particular that the nuclear weapons states, through their agreement to the final document, are unequivocally committed to the complete elimination of their nuclear arsenals. I see this as a new step and an important signal from the nuclear powers. Norway actively contributed to the successful outcome by leading the negotiations in the final phase of the conference between the five nuclear weapons states and the seven New Agenda countries — Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, Sweden and South Africa. A main objective for us in the work on disarmament issues during the autumn session of the 55th General Assembly of the United Nations was to consolidate and strengthen the consensus of the Conference of Supervisors. It is therefore gratifying that this year's version of the New Agenda countries resolution is based mainly on the decisions of the year's New York Conference of Supervisors. This is in line with our call for the New Agenda countries in the autumn. I am therefore pleased to announce to the House that this year Norway will vote in favour of the resolution. In the past, Norway, known to have opted for renunciation, has included some problematic elements and proposals. However, we have always shared the objective of the New Agenda countries of a nuclear-free world and supported initiatives that can help reduce the role of nuclear weapons in international policies. We are now working for a broad agreement to this year's resolution – also from our allies in NATO. The constructive follow-up by the new Agenda countries to the NPT Conference strengthens our expectations that the successful outcome of the Supervisory Conference will create a new impetus in the international disarmament and non-proliferation work. However, the challenges are many. First of all, we must help to create a new momentum in the negotiations at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. This is a prerequisite for implementing the ambitious work programme agreed at the Supervisory Conference in New York.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e622	I basically took the floor again just to thank the Foreign Minister for his positive reply. I think it is an important signal that Norway is now voting in favour of the New Agenda Coalition resolution. I would also like to commend the work that has been done by the Norwegian side to improve the text, so that it is based on the decisions of the Spring Supervisory Conference, and to get the most NATO countries to vote in favour. In general, I think it is important to work for the broadest possible measures that really lead to nuclear disarmament with a nuclear-free world as a goal. I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we must contribute to creating a new movement at the Geneva Conference, just to get on with the follow-up to what happened at the Conference of Supervisors. So I would like to thank you once again for a positive answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e629	Question 2 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e636	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The large EU countries require a change in the strength gap between small and large countries, so that large countries can gain more power. The major countries also want the EU Commission to have 20 members. An extension of the EU will mean that small countries will fall out of the Commission. Does the Government believe that such a change in power plays a role in what kind of EU strategy Norway should have, and will any Norwegian membership of the EU, with this change, represent an extension of democracy for the Norwegian people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e645	There's an interesting and comprehensive question the representative Langeland is traveling here. We are aware that there are differing views in the EU on this issue, which is being dealt with before and, hopefully, to final treatment at the Nice Summit in less than a long time, namely in December. It is therefore wise now to wait for the outcome of that meeting before entering a discussion on what possible outcome of this meeting would have to say to Norway. It is not in any way stated that the outcome is what is suggested in the question. And as I say, there's a lot of disagreement about this, but I'd like to come back to an assessment of the Nice Summit when it's over and the result is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e652	I thank you for your answer. I am in a position to await the conclusions of the Nice meeting. But I'm going to believe that the Foreign Minister – at least as I've experienced him before – has ideas about how a best man can develop democracy, and how a best man can sympathize that there is a popular uprising about things. One is now aware that in the EU countries there is a great deal of distrust of the political system, precisely because one feels forward-looking, so I still want the Foreign Minister to respond to what has in one way been a sort of secret mantra throughout the ‘Yes to the EU’ movement, namely that one must be involved in order to have an impact. And then let me ask the question a little bit more generally: what is the ideal solution, from the foreign minister's point of view, for this influence that he thinks we get by being a member?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e657	I was wondering for a moment whether we are facing the joyous fact that Langeland now wants a debate on how we should behave in the European Union. I think we'll profit from taking such a full-width debate, and not in a Question Time in Stortinget. If we are to discuss democratic influence in the EU, there are a lot of questions that need to be raised and seen in context, and not just the question of how many Commissioners are going to be in the EU system. Langeland is absolutely right that we have a lot of thoughts about this. We will present a European Communication to the European Parliament in the course of the year, and in this context there will be opportunities to discuss this issue in full. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e666	It's okay to fool when it's about Langeland, too. But it's probably a monthly scepticism that for the EU system it just applies to it as well. the Minister for Foreign Affairs has pointed out that one by participating will have an impact and expand democracy. I still think – even if it is in a Question Time – that the Foreign Minister should be able to say something about what is an ideal organisation for increased democratisation, as long as one knows that people in the EU are very skeptical of the elitist political culture that has been under development for a long time. I want to challenge him on what kind of processes he thinks are necessary for the reform of the democracy extension to have a real content both in relation to the EU and to the Norwegian people. This is an important matter also at the national meeting of the party, as far as I have understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e673	Question 4 is from the representative of Bastesen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade. The President can't see, sir. The Bastisen and assume he's on a new move. We're going to go to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e679	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘The Government proposed to sell 49 pst in the revised national budget. of the shares in AS Olivin. In August 2000, Fund finance ASA was put in charge of the sale and the prospectus was completed in September. Neither the Ministry of Industry, Trade or the Management Board of AS Olivin has approved the prospectus to date, so that the negotiations with potential buyers end in time. What happens to the progress of the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e688	On 16 June this year, the Storting endorsed the Government's proposal that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade should be authorised to carry out a partial privatisation of AS Olivin with a view to reducing the State's holding in the company against 51 p.m. The Ministry then engaged the brokerage firm Fondsfinans ASA as a financial adviser and arranger in the case. Written agreement was reached with Fund finance at the beginning of September. The draft prospectus was then forwarded to the Department and the Board of Directors in Olivin on 20 October. The final version of the prospectus — or ‘information memorandum’, which Fund finance calls it — has been approved and completed and distributed to potential investors during those days. With regard to the further progress in this matter, I would like to stress that the department – and the brokerage firm that is assisting us – is seeking to keep as high a pace as possible, taking into account the requirements of sound and orderly treatment in such cases. State sales will be carried out as a structured sales process with two bidding rounds. The deadline for provisional bids has been set at 29 November, after which calls and negotiations will be made with the most relevant providers. The deadline for final bids is 15 December. Our work plan is that the sales process should be completed by the end of 2000. However, I cannot give any guarantee in such contexts, since we must first of all find a commercial solution that can safeguard the interests of both the State and the company. Then there could be situations where we cannot set final deadlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e697	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I find profound, adequate and as concise as possible. Then we'll just have to wait for the process and hope that the tempo plan set by the Government will hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e702	The President shall record that, sir. The Bastisen is there, and we're going back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e708	I have the following questions for the Minister of Trade: ‘In the context of the training of navigators at technical technical colleges, the interpretation of poems in the New Norwegian language is equivalent to nautical subjects such as navigation, cargo leather, stability teaching and maritime regulations. If the examination is carried out in a poem-interpreting manner, he/she will not be given his/her certificate because he/she will not be given a dispensation until his/her continuation, which was previously possible. Will the Council of State restore this right to issue provisional certificates for the period until any continuation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e717	First, I would like to point out that the Maritime Directorate has never had a general access to issue a temporary certificate. The Directorate shall issue certificates to seafarers as provided for in the Regulation of 29 April 1998 on qualification requirements, certification and certification rights for personnel on Norwegian ships. An applicant for a navigational certificate with an education from technical college must pass a diploma in accordance with Section 16, paragraph 16. 4.2. ‘Completed approved education and passed approved examination’. In Norwegian, as in all other general subjects, grade 2 is required to pass the diploma. In the nautical disciplines, the requirement is grade 3 to pass. In relation to the legislation, the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs may grant exemptions from the certificate requirements for a limited period to a specific person. This derogation is a very narrow exception rule and is not used to grant a general exemption until, for example: the continuous examination of candidates who have crossed. In addition, the regulation has a general provision whereby, in individual cases, derogations from the regulation may be made. Here the list is very high, and there must be very special reasons which make this derogation necessary. It is also required that safety precautions be taken. I do not see that the issue of temporary certificates to candidates without passing a diploma should be specific reasons in relation to the regulation. In my opinion, a system in which temporary certificates are to be issued automatically undermines the whole principle of passing diplomas as set out in Reform 94 – adopted in the Stortinget – and the qualification regulations that have been followed here as a natural consequence of it. It is a great responsibility to be a navigator on a ship, for such positions require good general and vocational training. I will not go in to weaken the requirement of general education in relation to what is otherwise applicable to education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e737	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I note that she is not aware that there has been extensive dispensation if one did not exist in nautical subjects, but it was well worth noting before the interpretation of poems in Nynorsk became part of the navigation training. After the lay-outs of the Council of State, I am tempted to ask the following additional questions: Does the Council of State really believe that the interpretation of poems in the new Norwegian language is a suitable tool for getting on the sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e744	What is quite clear is that there has not been a general access to an exception, and I maintain that it is still not going to be given either. If having a general education is also important for navigating a boat, the answer to that is actually yes. I think that being generally up-to-date in many areas – and it doesn't hurt with poetry in between – will make you whole people. And when you're a navigator on a boat, you have to have the entire human side inside, not just the technical.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e751	I thank you for your answer. I wonder if I'm the only navigator here at Stortinget, and I've never taken a neuroscience in my navigational education. The Council's response concludes that in order to be a good enough person, you must learn to interpret poetry. Then I'm going to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State consider me, who hasn't learned neuron when I took navigational education, to be a full human being?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e758	The President has some doubts as to whether this in its origin is related to the main question. Government doesn't want to answer? – Then we go to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e766	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘According to the Official Journal of Bergen on 7 October 2000, the Government’s message to the national meeting of the National Association of Travel Companies was that tourism businesses which do not tolerate VAT and short-term economic charges do not have the right to life and that the labour force of these companies is needed in public. How many workers does the Council of State calculate to release in this way, and what assessments has the Ministry made of the impact on other local businesses, local services and the development and growth of districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e775	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug attached myself to me by referring to the Official Journal of Bergen of 7 October of this year, which referred to my lecture in the National Association of Travel Companies, statements that do not vote. In my lecture I put a significant emphasis on the background to the Government's proposal on VAT on services and the short-term tax. The government has provided a budget with increased emphasis on the common good and fairer distribution, providing security for work and the personal economy. Politics is about choosing, and we've done some tough priorities. There was a lot of the talk that was also about. The budget is committed to investing in economic stability and predictability, we are committed to research and innovation in order to expand welfare services. I stated that no one can break free from the community. It is through joint contributions that we are building up well-being and the Norway of the future. This also applies to industry and the tourism industry. I found it right to put the travel industry into such an overall framework. The paper on profitable and competitive tourism industries treated by the Stortinge in the summer and on which there was a broad consensus was dealt with, among other things. labour market and labour supply. We are in a situation of increasing scarcity of workers. The electric wave, lower retirement age and shorter working hours present major challenges in all industries in the most efficient use of available labour. Travel industries are labour-intensive, and travel businesses must be prepared in the future to face increasing competition for labour. Some of the tourism industries are already experiencing significant recruitment problems. In addition, the industries have high turnovers by workers. Maintaining the labour force is a major challenge. Although the 1990s have shown significant volume growth in the Norwegian tourism industry, it has not been able to take this into account in a better economy and profitability overall. This is the major challenge for Norwegian tourism — greater value creation and better profitability. And it's a challenge that the industry itself has to deal with. Travel industries face significant challenges. However, I have good faith that we will successfully master these challenges through an offensive and targeted joint effort by the industries and the relevant authorities. Key intervention areas will be targeted at product and travel development and profiling and marketing of Norway and Norwegian enterprises. Here the authorities are making an effort by building on the existing instrument. The SND will continue to focus its activity on enterprises, the Norwegian Tourism Council on the international marketing and profiling of Norway, while the municipalities and the regional level together with the enterprises must have the main concept of local organisation. If we can see this in context, we have laid a good foundation for forward-looking and profitable travel industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e797	The National Association of Travel Companies has looked at the consequences for a sample of its member companies. Of eight large-scale enterprises in the industry, size and geographical location, only one would have achieved sufficient performance in 1999 to cover an estimated additional burden on the VAT reform currently proposed, and not even other measures included in the State budget that are negative. In fact, for small and medium-sized district hotels, the consequences are dramatic. What does this imply on the Council of State, and what is the concrete advice of the Council of State to these companies in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e804	Just as the former government outlined, the government has also proposed a reduction in VAT on travel life, and then, in any process, one can always discuss dosage. But here it was sketched from the previous government reducing VAT for travel businesses, as the government has actually suggested. But what I said during the meeting was that if you did a review here and found that there were companies that, because of the VAT – when you had calculated both in detail and out-of-office – were in a very difficult situation, even though everyone around them judged that they had the right to life, I wanted to discuss it with their professional organisations. And some of them have actually made contact with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e811	I'm glad that the Council of State said she's open to dialogue and discussion in certain cases. In the big news about the tourism industry that was dealt with in Stortinget in the spring, the Workers' Party gave its full support to improving profitability and increasing competitiveness is absolutely necessary for the industry to succeed in the years to come, and for Norwegian tourism to be strengthened in international competition. I guess the Labour Party and the Council of State haven't changed their eyesight since then. However, we note that proposals have been made for new taxes, a reduction in the investment to profile Norway abroad, and it has been suggested that there is strong competition for labour, which is real. My question is then: What is the strategy of the Council of State to reverse the negative market development of Norwegian tourism and to strengthen Norway as a tourist country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e820	I would like to repeat that the government has followed up the reduced travel life tax that the previous government has announced. The previous government and the current government party agreed on the common strategy for tourism, which was actually set up here in spring, and which the government party is still behind. We might have to include here that there has been some little profitability in recent years, and that there is a good deal of overcapacity that also emerged in connection with the industry’s national meeting. But we go through this with both the Tourist Council, our embassies and the Export Council and look at how to profile Norway abroad. The IT portal that will be opened in a short time will also be a contribution in this way, although there will be a small contribution in the wider context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e830	I thank the Council of State for the previous answer since I forgot it instead. I'll ask you a new question, which says: ‘SND has been involved in building up the profitable and expanding company Stadt Automation A/S in Gjerdsvika on Sunnmøre. Now, SND Invest, who is the whole time of SND, wants the company to move to Ulsteinvik. According to the Chairman of SND Invest, Frode Alhaug, at Sunnmørsposten, 25 October 2000, moving to a city is necessary for an enterprise to enter the ‘national team’. Does the Council of State share this view and does she believe it is acceptable that SND is engaged in business development based on such principles?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e841	SND Invest was created in 1998 as a continuation of the former SND equity division. It is a separate share company with SND as its parent. The background to this transformation was the desire for a clearer distinction between the SND loan and grant schemes and the equity business. SND Invest shall contribute through active ownership to the growth and development of Norwegian business through business investments in promising companies across the country. Investments shall be made on a commercial basis and the scheme shall have a small business and district profile. SND has contributed to the construction of Stadt Automation A/S as a profitable enterprise, which is expanding and investing internationally. SND Invest has invested 8 million this year. kr in this company and have 34,8 pst. of the shares and has one member of the board. The company is now facing a capital expansion. When the new owners are in place, different alternatives shall be considered as regards the future location of the holding. As a shareholder, SND Invest has as its task, together with the other shareholders – and in the board one is not alone, but one runs together as a member of the board – to assess which measures can give the company the greatest value in total and thereby the best possible value for society and for its owners. When deciding on the location issue, I expect SND Invest’s board representative to take both business and district considerations into account. In general, I would like to stress that we are committed to facilitating business development in the districts. The Gjerdsvika in Sande Municipality is a priority area for support within SND. The board of Stadt Automation A/S will also have to consider in its treatment of the localisation issue that support from SND cannot be estimated if the company is moved to Ulsteinvik, since that municipality does not qualify for support to the same extent as the municipality where the company is now located. Of course, owners will also have to take into account the other disadvantages of moving the holding away from the environment in which it is now established and in which the community has so well supported it. If, after an overall assessment, the owners of the company consider it most appropriate and profitable to move to Ulsteinvik, they are free to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e854	I would like to thank the Council of State for a full answer. What I'm concerned about are the principal aspects of the matter and the signal effect of what is being said. And one of SND’s strategies, according to the budget proposal for next year, is to be ‘the precursor and the instrument for implementing a national industrial policy’. In addition, we know that SND is very central to achieving district policy objectives and contributing to profitable businesses across the country. Doesn't the Council of State think it's a problem when the Chairman of the Governing Board of the SND says that it's enough to become a circuit master in the country, but that you have to get closer to the cities if you're going to be good nationally? Does the Council agree that these views do not correspond to the reality of Norwegian business? And does the Council of State see that such statements can be debilitating and disrespectful to all those who manage to run profitable and forward-looking businesses even outside the cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e863	Both the representative Kongshaug and I come from areas where there is a lot of value creation; there is quite a lot of Norway's value creation going on in the West. We know that very small environments have had an ability to make an incredibly large effort, not least in the marine and maritime areas. But what's the starting point for SND is that they're also going to contribute to profitability. How the representatives of the board of directors in the regions, when they are involved in such a discussion, assess it, it would be wrong for us, whether it is the Council of State or the Chairman of the Governing Board, to settle in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e868	In the case of SND operations, it is important that the Storting provide signals and a guidance price for the way it is to be operated. Former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Lars Sponheim started work on developing a good reporting system for SND Invest, among others. in order to develop the reporting in the field of geography so as to allow a better picture to be drawn of the location of the enterprise’s area of activity and the areas of capital injection. What is the progress of this work under the new government? And further, when the chairman of the board of directors of SND Invest is identical to the chairman of the board of directors of SND Invest and alternately speaks on behalf of both companies, however, it will not be easy for outsiders to keep their responsibilities in order. Does the Council of State see that these two hats are not so appropriate to wear at the same time, especially as regards the credibility of the SND as an important tool for implementing regional policy instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e877	I am pleased that the representative Kongshaug underlines SND's important industrial policy activities also in terms of housing and districts, but with industrial policy as a base. As regards statistics and reporting for SND Invest, the work continues. The first statistics we got now, we have to do even better, because here it was a result where we saw the parent companies, but we didn't see where the individual enterprises below them were located again. Then we're going to get a much more nuanced picture of where SND Invest has actually settled out in the country. So here we're going to come back with an even better model for that. The other issues that the representative of Kongshaug will deal with in due course will be those that are now also being discussed in the announced big business message coming to spring, where we get the whole SND up for discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e889	I shall ask the Minister for Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘In today’s Business Day, 26 October 2000, the Council of State has an article on the follow-up to the Sandman Selection, in which he announces a closer assessment of the current sickness scheme. Does he mean reduced wages and thus reduced financial security during illness have an impact on the extent of absenteeism itself, or is there any other proposal from the Sandman Committee that he would rather put into effect as a priority?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e898	The development of sick leave is very worrying. As of 1994, sick leave has increased sharply. For 2001, sick leave covered by public health is estimated to be around 14 sick days per year. employee, corresponding to approximately 100 000 annual works. The growth of sick leave through 2000 is estimated to correspond to about 10,000 annual works. This means that about half of the labour force's growth of 22,000 people in practice is helping to cover up the increase in sick leave. In addition to the sick leave covered by social security, the sick leave covered by the employer is about the same in size. This is a development that is not sustainable over time. The Government has therefore chosen to give priority to measures to mitigate the growth of sick leave and disability as one of the 10 priorities of the Public Sector Renewal Programme. The Sandman Committee has in its setting concluded that there are no simple cause-links behind the increase in sick leave. The causes are complex, and there are therefore no simple measures we can put in place to reverse developments, for example. one-sided intensification of the benefits of workers under sickness. It is necessary to introduce measures in a number of areas. In my view, a key factor to reverse developments is to mobilise the labour market and to have active cooperation between the parties and the authorities. This is also in line with the position of the Sandman Committee, which emphasises that the workplace should be the central area for introducing measures both to reduce the growth of sick leave and to prevent unearthed retirement and exclusion. The government therefore wants an active dialogue with the social partners in order to identify what action we should take in the future. The Minister of Social Affairs and I have invited the social partners to a meeting on 14 November to discuss this in more detail. However, if we are to have an open dialogue with the parties, it is important that we have not decided in advance what measures are not relevant. However, for this government there are certain assumptions and values that would have to be the basis for the assessment of possible measures. In my article in Today's Business 26 October 2000, to which the representative Kleppa refers in his question, I formulated the following on what the Government considers to be a prerequisite: ‘For this government it is absolutely central that people should be able to feel financially safe when they have to be away from work because of illness. In particular, it is important that chronically ill workers and long-term workers are not affected. This does not necessarily require the continuation of the present system in its present form. The extent to which the majority proposal of the Sandman Committee meets the government’s basic requirements for a health pay scheme will be carefully assessed by the government.’ In the near future, the position of the Sandman Committee will be sent to the hearing. The government will not decide on the concrete measures to be taken to reduce the growth of sick leave until we have assessed the input from this consultation and the views of the social partners, inter alia. through dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e914	I thank you for your answer. It is with interest that I register that the Government offensively invites the social partners to a dialogue on these questions, which I also believe is absolutely necessary. In the Center Party, we're just as very concerned about the one-sided focus that it now seems to be on the sickle as a tool. We want to call in today's order, assuming that it's the lowest wage that's going to be affected by change. It also looks like this in the Sandman Committee's proposal. While the proposal is being heard, will the Government put in place other measures? Will it, for example? to take initiatives to strengthen leadership skills in relation to the inclusive working environment and to strengthen knowledge of psychosocial issues? Will changes be seen in relation to increasing the focus on functional assessment, i.e. giving more opportunities to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e923	I agree with the representative Kleppa that there has been too much focus on sick leave related to the sickness pay scheme. As I said in my reply, there is a wide range of actions that need to be implemented, and as the representative Kleppa quite rightly says: we need to have increased management responsibility, increased responsibility for the companies and also a collegial responsibility. It must not be the case that the sick person feels excluded by his own colleagues because one is unable to function 100 pst. at work. The regulatory framework also needs to be restructured, so that we think more about functional capabilities than about functional constraints. That is why there are a number of measures that we need to look at, and far from just focusing on the sick pay scheme. That is why we are so deeply concerned that this must be carried out in a dialogue with the social partners and that we are now ensuring that we have a broad foundation for the future work and not bet on unilateral solutions that create conflict instead of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e928	One of the measures taken by the previous government with the social partners was the creation of an idea bank, a place where you can pick up the good examples, because they exist. For here there are a number of enterprises, both small and large, which themselves have seen the searchlight in the workplace, which, with effective and offensive measures themselves, have reduced sick leave in their own workplace. There's a project that goes on for three years, and I hope that both Cosmo and other government councils follow it closely, so that it doesn't just become a new instance that's not being used. Then we will give our full support to both health cow free purchases and to what the Sandman committee proposes about a plan for follow-up of the individual after eight weeks. And we hope that things happen in the hearing as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e935	In fact, we see that in those companies where there is now such a high level of management responsibility that this problem is also raised at the level of the board, cooperation with employees is able to bring about a development that reduces sick leave. This doesn't do the companies to be nice. This is what companies do because they see that if we don't manage to deal with this problem, they will lose very important competence for exclusion instead of being able to retain this competence in the further development of businesses. So I have faith that through a set of instruments you will be able to reverse development – I had almost said – it has to be snuffed out, because, as I said in my main response: the development that we see now is not sustainable, and we have to bet everything we can on turning around, so that sick leave goes down instead of it still rising.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e943	Question 9 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e949	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The evening post stated on 22 October 2000 that almost every other asylum seeker who has arrived in the country in the last four months has not been in question/interview and has not been promoted. This means that almost 2000 people are waiting to be interviewed/interviewed. This situation has arisen despite the fact that UDI has given many new jobs in the last year. What is the reason why this situation has arisen, what will the Council of State do to solve it, and when will this happen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e958	The description of the situation by the representative Erna Solberg is based on a report in the evening post that, in my opinion, is somewhat unsound. Since 1 July 2000, the UDI has conducted 1 160 interviews. Furthermore, the directorate has a remainder of 748 interviews, of which 504 are already scheduled. However, I share Mr Solberg's concern about the progress of asylum interviews, and I have today had a meeting with the Foreign Affairs Directorate to discuss the current situation and possible measures to reduce the balances and to reduce the length of proceedings. In recent months, there has been a change in the composition of asylum seekers arriving in the country. While most asylum seekers from Yugoslavia, Somalia and Iraq arrived in the past, asylum seekers from Eastern Europe, including applicants from Romania and Slovakia, are now the main candidate groups. This has contributed to difficulties in obtaining qualified interpreter and translator assistance. It has also been shown that the work on asylum interviews in the Directorate has been somewhat more complicated and time consuming than was foreseen when the Directorate took over this task from the police on 1 July this year. Rests must also be seen in the context of the introduction of the self-declaration system, which asylum seekers must complete in advance of the interviews. The self-declaration must be translated into Norwegian before the interview can be conducted. This will help to ensure that there will always be some residues such as: depends on the availability of qualified translators. Although the directorate has not yet succeeded in achieving the objective of carrying out interviews and asylum procedures, I would nevertheless point out that the current situation with regard to the duration of leave and proceedings, after all, represents an improvement in relation to the time before the directorate took over responsibility for the asylum interviews. Furthermore, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs has recently implemented a reorganisation of its activities with a view to increasing the effectiveness of the proceedings. The Directorate therefore assumes that the interview capacity will increase from about 126 to about 150 interviews per year. the week during a relatively short period. It is true, as the representative of Solberg points out, that the Directorate has been given considerable resources in the last year. Recruitment of new staff, however, is a resource-intensive task, among other things. because new entrants need both training and work experience. It is therefore only recently that new entrants are considered to be fully operational in terms of asylum interviews and proceedings. In addition, the strengthening of the Directorate is also linked to a number of new tasks in the current year, including Norway’s accession to the Schengen cooperation and the Dublin Convention. But there must be no doubt that I am going to follow this development carefully and do what can be done to bring down the trial period further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e975	The decision was taken by the Council of State on the treatment of the State budget last autumn, which the Council of State is very well aware of, that there should be a large-scale notification of these bottlenecks. At the same time, on repeated occasions, Storting has pointed out the need for a faster procedure to speed up the dissociation of those to be granted a residence permit and those to be sent, in order to take account of the expenditure on public budgets in relation to residence and, in particular, of the situation of each asylum seeker. It is therefore very important to keep pace with these improvements. It's therefore a little daunting to see that, despite the massive increase, it takes this time. And when there are reports from the UDI that the year’s budget will in practice lead to the loss of a number of posts related to this work, it means that the Council of State must also respond to the recent UDI information that the time of the proceedings will rise due to lower staffing as a result of the draft government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e982	This is quite complicated, because we can't quite control how many asylum seekers come to our country. And as the representative of Solberg is well-known, more asylum seekers have recently arrived than before. And also the fact that they can all of a sudden come from countries other than the ones you'd really wanted to prioritize, makes things kind of put on your head for a period, as I mentioned in my main answer. As I said, I have had a meeting with the Foreign Affairs Directorate this morning because I share the concerns of the representative of Solberg regarding the length of the procedure. I am going to follow this up, and I am also quite clear that the goal of course is that the processing time will be as short as possible. We also asked the UDI to do something about it. We have asked for asylum to be given priority. Because of the situation I have now informed about, the procedure for some other cases will take longer. I believe we need to be open to assess whether we can organize and do things in a simpler way, and I do not exclude changes in laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e991	I just want to be allowed to replicate that a simpler practice in relation to labour immigration, such as the Right, among other things. has been proposed, and will contribute to the release of resources currently used in this area. But I am concerned about a special group, which the evening post has recently addressed, namely the minor asylum seekers, and the problems associated with appointing relief workers so that an interview process can be initiated at all in relation to them. This relationship I raised in a question-time question to Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem in April. At the time, she referred to the sample that has now been reduced in relation to the whole of the law. I then invited the Council of State to consider whether there should be no special link with minor asylum seekers, to wait four to five years for a major investigation into the entire law-enforcement system would be of no help in the emergency situation. What is the Council of State's assessment? Should we have an independent and other law related to the marriages of minor asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1000	I also agree with the representative of Solberg – we have major problems in getting people to forget for single minor asylum seekers. As the representative knows, during December I will present a big message on integration policy, and especially on the settlement of our new countrymen. In this context, I think it is natural that we also discuss the situation in relation to something more wrong, because it is quite clear that we need to put this in place. So even if there's a sample working on it -- and they're going to be allowed to do it -- I also see that there might be some measures that we can do now, so hopefully we'll get some of this in order before the sample comes up with its investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1010	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘An Iranian family has been refused an application for residence on 26 September 2000. The desire for conversion has been sent, and SOS Racism concludes that this family should not be sent back to Iran. Particular attention is given to the situation of women in Iran, and thus the situation of the 16-year-old daughter. The daughter has addressed her case on her own initiative in the form of letters to the King and wishes to meet the responsible State Council. What is the Ministry’s assessment of Iran’s situation and its daughter’s situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1019	It is true that the Iranian family concerned has been denied their application for a residence permit in Norway. The applications were rejected by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs on 18 April of this year and following a complaint by the Ministry of Justice on 26 September of this year. It is also true that a request for conversion from SOS Racism has been made. This will be dealt with during the month of November. According to established practice, I cannot comment on individual matters that are being dealt with, and I cannot therefore express my opinion on how I assess the matter to the daughter of 16 years. As far as the situation in Iran is concerned, I assume that the question put by the representative Sahl is primarily about the situation of women. Of course, it is true that the Iranian and Islamic family laws give more rights to men than to women and that women like them are discriminated against. With regard to the situation in Iran in general, throughout the 1990s, Norwegian foreign authorities have actively sought to acquire and systematise knowledge about the country. Information from regular service claims to Iran, the EEAS, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and several recognised human rights organisations forms part of the decision-making base of the foreign authorities when decisions are to be taken under the Foreign Affairs Act. That human rights violations take place in Iran is well known. However, this does not mean that all Iranians who come to Norway and want to stay here for various reasons fulfil the conditions for asylum or stay on a humanitarian basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1028	I thank you for the answer, and to the extent that the positive content of it – that there is still time to do something here, and that there will be a decision in November. However, I cannot afford to sit with a little of the same feeling that I know that the support apparatus for this family is in place, and that SOS Racism and Amnesty International have also pointed out, that this very process of embellishment in the relationship between Norway and Iran – which is positive and good – almost consistently leads Iranian refugees in Norway to receive negative answers to their asylum applications. With regard to the Minister himself emphasised, and which was also emphasised in the answer to a question asked in the Question Time on 24 May about this with the human rights issues in Iran, I would like to ask more on a general basis: Is the fate of individuals drowning in the desire of the Norwegian authorities to normalize relations with Iran?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1035	The answer to the last question from Jan Sahl is no. The fate of individuals does not drown; a proper, individual treatment of each case is carried out. When I said what I did, both what I mean is the situation of many women in that country and also in relation to human rights, of course I'm on it. But I must, of course, stress, as I also did, that there are other attitudes and ways of being there in relation to what we are used to, in itself is not a basis for everyone from Iran to stay in Norway. But there is therefore an individual assessment in each case, and as I said, it will be decided during this month with regard to the matter raised by the representative Sahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1040	I have noticed and am pleased that the Minister specifically addressed this with the situation of women in Iran. In this case – although we cannot go directly into the matter – the family has a 16-year-old daughter who has come up involuntarily in this situation, a daughter who is a child in Norway but who will not be a child when she returns to Iran. I would like to ask the Minister, on a general basis, whether she will meet the challenge posed by this girl.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1047	I do not know if the representative Sahl now referred to a letter with an enquiry about a meeting with me. I have to say that I haven't seen, but in general, I have to say that the department deals with quite a thousand asylum cases in a year, and it is difficult for a minister, regardless of the party color, to have personal meetings with each one who had to ask for it. That doesn't mean we're not interested in, for example. This woman’s situation, or in the situation of others seeking asylum in Norway, but because the day only has 24 hours, I have to say that it is difficult to meet all such enquiries. But what I can assure you is that this matter, like all other matters, is of course subject to a very thorough and proper treatment in our system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1055	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Minister of Labour and Administration raised uncertainty about the government’s line in matters where foreigners studying in Norway want to stay here after education on 25 October 2000. Is the Government following a policy where the students are usually to return home, or is an individual assessment to be made taking into account whether the person is going to travel to another western country, as the Government of Bondevik provided in a regulatory adjustment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1064	The amendment to the first paragraph of Section 2a of the Foreign Regulation, which entered into force on 1 January 2000, provides for greater flexibility as regards the possibility of granting work permits as a specialist after completion of training to non-residents who are not covered by the EEA Agreement. The change means that they can obtain a work permit even if they do not have the right to do so until after five years of stay outside Norway. Guidelines have been provided to further regulate this. Students who have funded the studies by their own means, i.e. without the aid of the Norwegian State, may be granted a work permit as a specialist without a quarantine period. Past practice for allowance students and scholarship holders is continued, at least until further notice, in the sense that only exceptional exemptions from the quarantine requirement are made. So for this group, the general rule is that they have to return. This is in line with the aid and immigration policy objectives of returning to the country of origin of foreigners who are educated in Norway in order to use their education there. Allowance students and fellow students also receive the student loan from the Staten Borrowing Fund when they return home. However, I am committed to getting these questions further assessed in the context of a general review of the legislation on the granting of a work permit in Norway. I don't want to conclude now about what the result of it is, I think we need to have the opportunity to evaluate it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1075	I thank the Council of State for the answer. After all, it has clarified the government's line, namely that the flexibility it has been provided is practiced with a certain degree of rigour, but that the Council of State is willing to assess the overall situation. I would encourage the Council of State to do that, because it is obvious that in a number of areas we need specialist labour, and the provision for students comes close to the specialist provision that has been liberalised and that is just about providing Norway with skilled labour in a number of areas. I want to ask the question, when can we assume that the assessment that the Council of State here is talking about will be presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1082	I cannot promise a specific date for that today, but I can promise that we will work high on the issue of labour immigration in general. It is clear that in the current situation, with a staggering shortage of labour in many sectors, there is probably a need to make some decorations and regulatory adjustments. We're working on high gear, and we're going to come back with some suggestions in a few months – let me use the expression: we're doing it as fast as we can. Of course, as far as Dørum is concerned, we should consider it. But if you were to go into a line here where the criterion would be if the former student could refer to a job offer in another Western country, it is clear that, first of all, it could be problematic to find out if that job offer is real. This could result in people who provide real or notional employment services using them only as arguments for obtaining a work permit in Norway. It could further undermine the whole purpose of study permits, and in reality also invalidate the rule that students should return to their home country to benefit from education there. I'm just saying that, because I believe that this is something you have to consider carefully, of course, if you were to go into the change that I understand Dørum is for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1089	I'm not going to pursue that main line, but just pay attention to the following comment: It's a fact that a number of Western countries benefit from students from developing countries who are educated in Norway. Well, that's the way it is. There is no reason to hide that especially the United States attracts very skilled labour. The fact that we follow ideals that are the best in the world, but that in practice do not match the terrain we are now in, should at least lead to the strong reflection that people who we need here in the country and who show that they are competent through their own education – that is precisely where you can get it – are calling for greater flexibility. But I take note that the Council of State is concerned about the question, that she is working under high school and talking in a few months' time. Based on experience, I perceive it as a positive answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1097	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Minister for Local and Regional Affairs Sylvia Brustad has repeatedly underlined the importance of the local People’s Government. Does the Council of State mean that state ownership of hospitals will lead to such a development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1106	The most important thing about our health care system, as the government sees it, is that it works overall for the health of the people. The fact that patients receive the treatment they need, in a reasonable time of good medical quality, is the most important thing. Unfortunately, this is not always the case per. Today, and then we need to look with open eyes at how our health care system is organised, including how ownership is per person. today. Of course, the government also has other policy objectives, such as local autonomy, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa refers to in his question. As she knows, I'm very concerned with local self-government. To the extent that there is a contrast between the objective of better health care and the objective of strengthening the local government, it is our job as politicians to balance. My assessment is that hospitals should become state-owned, because I believe that, among other things, will contribute to clearer responsibilities, better regional coordination of specialist healthcare, more equal access to healthcare, as much as possible equivalent services for our citizens. I believe that in total, we will be able to provide a better health service for the benefit of the country's citizens. I assume that the representative of Meltveit Kleppa knows that the Workers' Party will take a stand for the state ownership of the hospital at its national meeting at the end of the next week, and that of course I cannot or will not be able to forge the outcome of the national meeting on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1117	I thank you for your answer. Let me underline first of all: there is no disunity between the Centre Party and the Labour Party when it comes to the objectives highlighted here by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, it is the fact that the individual patient is treated, which must weigh more heavily. We believe that there is a longer-term involvement of both government and government and changing governments in relation to legislation that is in place, both for specialist health services, patient rights, health professionals and the possibility of a different and better organisation. But will it not be possible for the individual citizen to have the possibility to influence the hospital supply in his own country or region? Shouldn't the hospital supply be organized and developed according to local circumstances, based on the great commitment we've had to now in this field? I find here a contradiction between Brustad's objective of greater local self-government when it comes to hospitals, which she says here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1124	I do not fully agree with the last representative of Meltveit Kleppa. What I think must be absolutely crucial when we talk about health policy, is that people, wherever they live in the country, can be sure that they get the help they need, when they need it, and that they can be sure that where they come, there are people who are very well used to taking care of just their disease in order to help them. And then we actually believe that the way we have organized the ownership of our hospitals today is not the most appropriate way to do it. That being said, we are aware that it alone does not solve the health challenges, but it cannot be as we now see with regard to some disorders, that what help and treatment you receive depends on which country you live in. It also has a bearing on the quality of life that people will have in the future, and we simply need to put an end to this. We have to have equivalent treatment, and we have to have the responsibility clearly placed. That being said, of course, in our approach, it will also be stated that we will involve local representatives, and that will also give us more confidence in what is going to happen to businesses around.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1131	As the Center Party sees it, there are now two main challenges: one is the organisation in the hospital, so that the staff can spend more time on patients, as they have outsourced, and the other is the resources that are put at their disposal. I want to challenge the Brustad government council on the following: What separates hospitals from other tasks that the county council currently plays with and that are under elected control – continuing training, for example.? Is it so that the state in the next round should also take over the continuing schools, or is there something special about the needs of the sick that makes it too difficult for a regionally elected level? What are the consequences for the care of the elderly if a person thinks that local elected bodies are not going to deal with these tasks because they are too complicated? In the next round, the Labour Party will follow the Progress Party also at that point and e.g. propose unit-price financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1138	What the representative Meltveit Kleppa said now, she knows is a wrong description of the Labour Party's policy. The government, as the representative is aware, will come back with a separate issue on the division of tasks between the different levels of government and also an assessment of whether we are going to have the number of levels of government we have today. We'll come back with that in March-April next year, and then we'll have plenty of opportunity to discuss it. But the representative, Meltveit Kleppa, knows very well that this government has as its goal, first of all, to organise everything in the public sector in such a way that it serves our users, and, second, to do so so that we preserve democracy and not least what is involved in local self-government. And I think I'm going to put a lot of dollars on this government of course won't propose that high school be a state responsibility. Personally, I also believe that even if you make hospitals state – which I think is absolutely right, because we can't have a situation where people are treated from which state you belong, it must be equal no matter where in the country you live – then I believe that there will still be a need to have a regionally elected level. And there will be enough of tasks for such a level to govern, and probably they should also have more tasks than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1148	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘It has been working hard and intensively over several years to realize a deep-water lake/offshorekai in Verdal, which will have a major impact on the whole of Central Norway. In examining the budget for the current year, the majority of the municipal committee stated that the Government should contribute to the existence of a financing plan during the 1st half of 2000. When can it be expected that the Council of State will help to follow up its own comments, so that the construction of deep water water in Verdal can be realized?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1157	First, I want to make it clear that in this government too, it has been working very actively on this issue. Verdal Municipality has applied for an exceptional state grant of 60 million. kr in connection with the construction of deep water taps on the Ørin. This corresponds approximately to the total amount available to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs per year. years for such purposes. Several political-led meetings have been held in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, where there has been a look at the possibility of co-financing without leading to a final solution for the project. These include: evidence that it is important to complete ongoing investigation work for extended port cooperation throughout Trondheimsfjorden. This study discusses, inter alia: the extent to which Verdal could potentially become a port of unloading for South Trondelag and Trondheim port. The general employment situation in Verdal and the challenges in this way were otherwise discussed at a major meeting in Verdal at the beginning of August this year. There I promised to look at the possibility of contributing financially to an innovation and development process in Verdal, linked directly to industrial development. An application from the municipality of Verdal is now under examination in the department. Nord-Trøndelag County Municipality and Verdal Municipality have been contacted to ensure the necessary documentation for a good handling of the application and a best possible process in the further work. In my view, the investigation work on port cooperation and the innovation and development process will both have a major impact on the extent to which a berth of the size set out in the application submitted to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1170	I thank you for your reply, and would like to stress that on 6 October 1999, the Ministry stated that it was in favour of implementing the project. It was then asked that some aspects of the project be further investigated. It was done, and it was forwarded to the department. All investigations by the builder should therefore now have been sent to the department. Furthermore, the Council of State mentions this with the development municipality. I would like to inform you that this is a completely different application from the application for the project we are talking about, namely deep water. I would then like to follow up with the following questions to the Minister: When can the applicant expect to receive an answer to the application for the Deepwaterskai Project in Verdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1179	I just can't answer that today, firstly because we want to look at the investigation in relation to the port situation and what is happening in Trondheimsfjorden in relation to Sør-Trøndelag and Trondheim port, and secondly because, as I said, the application for treatment is 60 million. kr, i.e. the amount available to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for a total of one year. It goes without saying that there is a lot of money. Moreover, throughout this process we have had and have good contact with the municipality of Verdal and the municipality of Nord-Trøndelag both at political and administrative level. We're going to keep having that. Personally, I have great faith in the application that is now being made to do something about business and the employment situation in Verdal, which I think is very necessary. There we want to contribute from our side, as I have also said to them at a direct meeting in August earlier this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1186	I thank you for your answer. It may in many ways be a little reassuring that the Council of State per. today does not know when the answer will come. At least that gives you hope that there is still a chance to realize this project. However, it was also said that coordination responsibility should be exercised in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, trying to coordinate funding between several departments. I hope the Council of State will continue to try to achieve good coordination between, for example. The Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Oil and Energy so that one can realize the project. As regards the need in the future, there will still be a very high level of offshore industry, as only one such berth exists in Norway per year. the current date, and Aker Verdal must in fact refuse to participate in tenders in some projects because of the lack of deep water.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1199	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Over a long period of time, there have been difficulties in getting adequate medical coverage in the districts. Being a primary doctor in the municipalities is an important job in the Norwegian health care system on which the medical study should focus more on. How can the Nord-Trøndelag Health Survey help to train more doctors who see it as a challenge to be a local doctor?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1208	In order to improve the recruitment of doctors for primary health care, a number of measures are required, the implementation of which will be the most important. Other measures are to ensure the proper teaching of medical students with a focus on general and social medicine. In addition, it is important to facilitate the involvement of several general practitioners in research and professional development. The Health Survey in Nord-Trøndelag, HUNT, is one of the largest health surveys ever conducted. In 1984-86, all residents over 20 years of age were invited to participate in the survey, and in 1995-97 all over 13 years of age. The North African population has contributed impressively high levels of attendance. In addition to receiving a health check, comprehensive health data were collected, which is now a unique source of research. The Health Study in Nord-Trøndelag has been a collaboration where the State Institute of Public Health, the State Health Studies, the Nord-Trøndelag County Municipality and the Norwegian Technical Science University, NTNU, have been the main co-players. In Verdal, a socio-medical research centre has been developed in conjunction with the State Institute for Public Health, which today counts 15-20 people and administers and conducts studies on the basis of data from HUNT. For example: to strengthen the place of social medicine and to ensure sufficient qualified teachers, the NTNU Medical Faculty has defined the HUNT as a central future field of action in its strategy plan. By exploiting the possibilities of the HUNT, the NTNU research environment will be able to strengthen the teaching, qualification and recruitment of doctors in the region. The research centre in Verdal has already made the local medical labour market more attractive, and NTNU wants HUNT as a cornerstone of the effort to build an attractive medical environment in Central Norway. In order to assist local efforts, the Government of the State budget for 2001 proposes two measures. Firstly, the basic funding for the continuation of HUNT and the research centre in Verdal has been too weak and is therefore strengthened by 2.4 million. kr. Secondly, the research centre in Verdal from next year becomes organisationally linked to the medical faculty, NTNU. At the same time, an organisation for the maintenance and exploitation of HUNT, including the Nord-Trøndelag district, is being set up. In this way, I believe that from a central point of view, we are now providing very good opportunities for local research and professional development, and through this also local education and the recruitment of doctors to the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1221	I thank the Council of State for the answer – an answer that I am very pleased with, especially because the bet on HUNT makes Nord-Trøndelag and Verdal an important part of a socio-medical environment in the region, and I think that is very good. I have noticed that the fixed medical system will play a major role in relation to medical recruitment. Policies in municipalities require stable conditions, and, as the Council of State says, the fixed medical system will contribute to this. My question, however, is this: is it possible, if the fixed medical system does not produce the desired effect, that economic instruments might have to be assessed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1228	First of all, as it now looks with the implementation of the fixed medical system, I am quite certain that it will give the desired effect in terms of stability of primary medical care around the municipalities and thus also better the basis for recruiting young doctors to this important part of our healthcare system. However, it is clear that if it turns out that there are still weaknesses in the recruitment of the service, we will also need to consider other instruments, but I am now placing the emphasis that we fully implement the fixed medical system as foreseen and have the expected positive effects of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1236	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘By virtue of the Law on Social Security, it is a condition for benefits to surviving divorced spouse that the former spouse died within five years of the divorce. The Bondevik government aimed at implementing the right to survivors’ benefits to divorced survivors with contributions even when the death occurs more than five years after the divorce. Will the Council of State promote such a bill?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1245	There are still many elderly and middle-aged women who have been wholly or partly cared for by their spouse throughout their working age. Women often become minimum pensioners, while men may have good pension rights in both social security and supplementary pension schemes. In the case of divorce after long-term marriage, if she cannot be expected to take care of herself, the wife is happy to support her by contributions from a divorced spouse. As a result of the proposals of the Brundtland government in the welfare notification, the marriage law rules on marriage contributions have improved. Contributions are provided herein, as a general rule, without a time limit after long-term marriage. The problem is that marriage contributions stop when the divorced spouse dies. The entitlement to the survivors' benefits of popular security applies today only in the event of death occurring within five years of the divorce. A previous exemption was lifted in 1989. The Bondevik government announced that it was aiming at reintroducing the right to survivors’ benefits from the social security system for divorced persons with contributions even in deaths that occurred more than five years after the divorce. During the deliberations, the majority pointed out that more and more women are working out their own pension rights and that the need for such a scheme will therefore be reduced in the long term. On this basis, the majority supported the measure. The size request, as known to the Government, provides a follow-up plan for the smoothing message in the spring of 2001. A good public safety network is necessary for those who do not have the opportunity to participate in the labour market. The issue of survivors’ benefits to divorced survivors with contributions when the death occurs more than five years after the divorce will be part of the Government’s action plan for the follow-up to the Equalisation Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1260	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background for the question is, among other things. that after 35 years of marriage, a woman lost the right to a survivor's pension because her divorced husband died six years and one month after the divorce. I think this is obviously unfair. It is true that the need for this injustice to be eliminated becomes less because this group of women is decreasing in number. But there is no comfort for the women concerned, who have this need, and who are affected by this injustice. Many of these women are good adults and have little time to wait. It is gratifying that the Council of State has this in its action plan, but can the Council of State give these women some concrete hope in time? When will there be an action plan on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1271	As I said in my reply, that plan will be promoted in the spring of 2001 – so it is not that long longer – and will be followed up with the legal work that is necessary, as soon as it can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1279	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘From 1 May 2000, it was legal for all disabled people to be entitled to personal assistance, but almost half of the municipalities do not provide this to their disabled people. Now there are also several municipalities and districts that want to take away from the disabled personal assistants, contrary to the decision on the size of the city. What will the Council of States do to ensure that anyone who can benefit from this offer gets it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1288	User-driven personal assistance is an alternative organisation of practical and personal assistance for people with severe disabilities who need assistance in their daily lives, both inside and outside the home. The user has the role of supervisor and assumes responsibility for organisation and content in relation to his needs. Within the framework of the municipal decision-making on practical assistance, the user may in principle determine who is to be a helper, what the assistant or assistant is to do, and where and at what times the assistance is to be provided. User management is a means of contributing to better resource use, flexibility and quality assurance. The aim is to help the user get an active and as independent life as possible, despite strong disability. It was not legal that all disabled people have the right to user-controlled personal assistance. The amendment was based on the fact that all municipalities are obliged to have the arrangement in line with the other regulated services under the Social Services Act. The right to services under the law requires that he cannot take care of himself or is entirely dependent on practical or personal assistance to do the everyday life's tasks. It is the municipality that will initially determine which services, including user-led personal assistance, are most appropriate, but the municipality has a duty to consult with the user and to place a high emphasis on the user’s views. The decision of the municipality shall specify the framework for the assistance granted as user-led personal assistance. The measurement shall be at a sound level. The applicant will have the right to appeal to the State if an application for user-led personal assistance is not granted or an existing offer is reduced. The decision of the municipality may be amended by the county council whose discretion is manifestly unreasonable or unlawful. The Ministry sent out a circular on user-driven personal assistance, explaining the scheme. The circular will help to make the scheme more familiar in municipalities. Stimulation grants are also provided to municipalities providing services in the form of user-led personal assistance. For 200l, the government has proposed to continue the grant at the same level as this year, i.e.: Forty-five million. kr. In 2000, 687 users receive such grants. The 2001 proposal provides that grants already granted to authorised users may be continued, while allowing new users to benefit from the grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1301	For the Left, this has been a very important matter, namely that it is the users of public services – and it is the debt and the disabled – who are most likely to define the needs they have. So the fact that the disabled get personal assistants to whom they themselves provide work guidance is important. Local authorities do not now have an obligation to provide user-driven personal assistance, said the Council of State. But at least we mean that the disabled have a right. What will the Council of State do to get more information about this offer, not only to municipalities, but also to users about the possibilities they have to get their personal assistant for whom they can guide and control themselves and define work tasks, perhaps to get a better and more personal help out of their own needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1308	Municipalities are obliged to have this scheme as one of several offers to the groups concerned. But the individual cannot claim it as a right – that is what the municipality and the user will figure out together. I have sent out a circular to the municipalities. That's now the way we usually talk to the municipalities. We provide users with better information, through user organisations and their publications of various kinds. I can tell you that yesterday I had consultations with the users in Troms, among other things. This matter was discussed quite carefully, because it is of great interest to it outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1315	I am pleased that the Council of State answers that the information should now go to the users so that they are better acquainted with this offer. We also know that conflict situations will arise when users at their local community meeting want to see their personal assistants. The Council of State was involved in the complaint, that this had to be done to the county council. But who is it that defines whether the user has the ability to be a supervisor, because it is also required that a person be able to be a supervisor for the personal assistant? Who is it that defines whether the user can do this? Are there any guidelines linked to what municipality can demand, what users can demand and when the county will decide on these complaints? This will happen, and there will certainly be more and more cases, perhaps relating to the resource situation in the municipality. [[Vihovde]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1326	It is difficult to establish very clear rules for which of the users have the competence to be head of labour. It is clearly an assessment that must be made by the user and the municipality together. I have such great confidence in the municipal apparatus that I think they can handle this. Where there is no consensus, we just have a complaint to the county council, which has to go back in and look at the realities of the individual case. I agree with the representative that there will be conflicts here, and they will be solved as they come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1343	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1349	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Neither the girl in Buskerud has tried both technical aids and health professionals in a wise way, because she needs to be awakened when she ‘falls out’. It has been shown that a specially trained dog is what has worked best and that has also given him greater freedom and improved quality of life. However, it turns out that there is no basis in the law on popular protection to provide support for the training of a help dog/service dog. Will the Council of State amend the law, so that the assistance dog is also recognised as an aid?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1358	I understand the question in such a way that it is a matter of whether the public interest can provide support for the acquisition of a help dog or a service dog to someone who is not blind or visually impaired. Folklore can provide support to a guide dog for the visually impaired. It is a condition that the visually impaired person has a reasonably high level of activity in everyday life or in working life in order for a guide dog to be considered necessary and appropriate. If the visually impaired person is at work, it is a prerequisite that the dog can be included and accepted at work. The Ministry has appointed a professional selection for dog issues such as: shall assist the social security system in matters of social security benefits for the acquisition of a assistance dog. The committee assesses the professional assumptions for benefits and makes adjustments to the social security office in each driver's dog case. The price for assistance dogs is fixed at 170 600 kroner per hour. Dog. In October 1992, the Ministry of the State of the Kingdom of Sweden asked to identify the need for assistance dogs and assess the economic impact. Furthermore, the department asked the Rikstrygdeverket to assess the need for regulatory changes. The Swedish National Road Safety Agency raised the matter with the organisations of disabled people and the professional selection of guide dog issues. Norway's Handicap Federation gave no feedback. The Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons concluded that the need for assistance dogs does not appear to be very high among their members. The Norwegian Epilepsy Association, however, showed interest in the project, but felt that the need for a rescue dog was uncertain. The Führerhunt range considered that there is not such a large number of applicants that there should be a need to establish a new institution for such training. In the light of the feedback received in the spring of 1994, the Rikstrygdeverket concluded that the need for assistance dogs was not very great. The department agreed. With regard to the relationship to legislation, I point out that the applicable law and regulations require that the aid is necessary and appropriate to solve practical problems in everyday life. This is to be done on a case-by-case basis, inter alia. assess whether another and more reasonable means can meet the need. In my opinion, the practical tasks for which it may be appropriate to use an auxiliary dog could generally be carried out with more reasonable alternative means or measures. There is no basis today in the rules of popular fear to provide support for the acquisition of an auxiliary dog. I would like to contact the organisations of disabled people in order to look at the matter again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1373	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I might have wished that a change in the law could have been notified already today. But it is a good start to contact the organisations of disabled people in order to look at the matter again. There have been some cases since 1994, when the Riksstrøgdeverket mapped out the need for assistance dogs, not least in relation to the training of dogs and users to make the interaction work optimally. That is why I am also concerned with quality assurance of this type of training, and I hope the Council of State can also take that part into account in the further work, both in relation to the FFO, the Handicap Association and other organisations. There is already a group for the training of assistance dogs. They have developed ethical guidelines and training requirements that are promising.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1382	– The state councils are taking the last wishes forward. Then we go back to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1390	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1393	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries, who will answer the following questions on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has gone away for the occasion: ‘Byene Arendal and Grimstad have taken decisions to impose property taxes on private dwellings. However, several believe that the limits laid down for the property tax are illegal. Section 3 of the Law on the Taxes of Ownership of Municipalities states: «The Community Government can only print taxes on property in clearly defined areas which are wholly or partly developed in urban areas...». However, what is ‘urban’ is often unclear and thus becomes the source of conflicts and legal cases. Will the Council of State explain what should be understood by ‘city’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1402	The property tax is a municipal tax. It is the local authority in each municipality that decides whether to issue property taxes in the municipality. According to property tax section 3, property tax may be levied in areas that are wholly or partly urbanly developed or where such expansion is in progress. The local authority must make a concrete assessment of whether the conditions of Section 3 of the tax on property are fulfilled. The preparatory work of the law states that: ‘is clear that the municipalities must use understanding in accordance with the purpose of the law and within the limits which have been established for the purpose of the law’. Furthermore, in a 1985 judgment, the Court of Justice stressed that the Courts should: ‘are somewhat deterred from intervening in the determination of the geographical boundaries of a property tax area by the Local Council’. The decision of the local council to introduce property taxes must cover all real estate in a defined area, possibly throughout the municipality, which meets the requirements of Section 3 of the law. The decision may not cover only certain types of real estate. The content of the terms of the Urban Development Act is further clarified by the highest case-law. In the so-called 1985 Fana's judgment, the Supreme Court states that: ‘points to the nature of the areas, to the external characteristics such as the nature of the population, its density, the nature of the water supply, sewers, roads, pavements, street lighting, shops, banks, public offices and other such public goods as are normally found in a city.... The basic prerequisite for considering an area to be urbanly developed is the existence of a agglomeration of a certain extent. If it is a agglomeration without any connection to a city centre, or another centre, it is not possible to talk about urban development if the agglomeration itself does not have certain services; otherwise, if it is a suburban building with natural connections to the city centre or local centre nearby. The population must then be assessed in relation to the larger unit of which it is part.» The judgment states that the ‘partial’ option, combined with the requirement of clear limits and the assumption in the law that agricultural and forestry land may be included, implies that: ‘provided relatively spatial boundaries where this is deemed necessary for an appropriate demarcated area’. Furthermore, it says that it will be ‘lowly appropriate to demarcate a number of ‘pockets’ in a larger area where urban areas or areas under development are found at intervals’. According to the law, urban development is sufficient. In that judgment it is stated that: ‘look to whether, in the reasonable future, the area would be likely to become urban... In my view, in order to focus on clean plans, it is necessary, in my view, to require that the plans are adopted and binding and that the work under the plan is imminent. It is possible that ‘ongoing’ should not be subject to such strict ‘ongoing’ requirements as regards the development of areas which are close to those already developed. On the other hand, it is possible that the requirement may need to be made more stringent in the case of development plans as an independent basis for property taxation in clean agricultural or forestry areas. In this respect, it should probably be required that the development has also started physically.’» The so-called Property Tax Committee put forward in its position NOW 1996:20 proposals for new property tax laws. The selection was of the opinion that all real estate in a municipality should be subject to property taxes, unless there are specific reasons for establishing exemptions. In the view of the sample, this should apply regardless of whether the property tax is made compulsory or optional for each municipality. In its explanatory statement for the proposal, the committee highlighted inter alia: that the discretionary criteria for issuing property taxes in the current law are not appropriate and that they have led to a wide range of legal proceedings. In the follow-up work, there is a need to see the property tax in conjunction with the other parts of the tax system. The rules for charging, inter alia: housing and leisure properties will be of central importance in the design of new rules. It has therefore been considered appropriate to await the clarification of the design of new property tax laws until these issues are resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1454	I thank the Council of State for the answer he gave, but here was very little new that is suitable to clarify the uncertainties contained in this law. Let me first say that the Progress Party will primarily remove the property tax on private homes altogether. But my question to the Labour Party Council was not primarily intended as an input into a debate on the principle of or against the Property Tax Act. My question is probably an attempt to help clarify one of the most central points of the law: what should be understood by urban, or by urban? This ambiguity between what is ‘urban’ and what is not ‘urban’ has made and makes this law the source of a conflict. Now, when there is never so little popular uprising going on in both Arendal and Grimstad – one has announced battles and lawsuits against municipalities and the property tax law – it is a question of whether we have earned a law that to those degrees is both very unclear in central areas and very unpopular. State councils should be able to agree that there are many good reasons why especially outlying residents in Arendal and Grimstad are now raging against the introduction of property taxes, as long as the law is as unclear as it is in what is city and not city.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1463	I have explained the clarifications that the courts have made about how these things should be understood. This is as precise as you can be, based on the legislation in force. I have also explained that it has been considered appropriate to await a further investigation of this in relation to other related issues that have an impact on the outcome of this case. Otherwise, of course, this will be properly communicated to my colleague, the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1472	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. So the legal text is very little informative about what ‘in urban terms’ is. Local politicians are therefore left to some discretion in this area as to where the limits of where this property tax can be imposed can go, and when they can exercise that discretion, they often seem to be doing it a bit beyond what the property tax law actually allows. When the property tax is first introduced, several local politicians seem to have the fairest possible payment of this tax in the municipalities, and therefore they are the boundaries. Thus, this local policy assessment of where the boundaries can be applied to property taxes in e.g. Arendal and Grimstad can quickly become illegal in such a discretionary perspective. When such a disputed law is so unclear on essential and central points, and it becomes subject to repeated legal disputes and not least a strong popular indignation, I would say that the law in my view should be reviewed – and preferably removed completely, as the Progress Party agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1479	Let's go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1485	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1488	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries: ‘In Hedmark, Statens vägvesen, Hedmark, has set up 11 signs to advertise the increased use of buses. In the past, the state road system has had a very restrictive attitude to this type of signage, including to business. The signs are set up on heavily worked road sections, also in places with a 90 km/h zone. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate that the establishment itself should set up such signs as they claim to be capable of reducing road safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1497	The signs referred to were set up on specially selected sections of the national road network in Hedmark and were only to stand up for a shorter period of time. The aim of these campaign signs was to draw the attention of drivers to a much improved bus service between Hamar and Elverum and between Elverum and Kongswinger. The signs are part of a cooperation project between Hedmark County Municipality and the State Road Administration where the aim is to get more people to choose the bus over the car and thus possibly contribute to fewer accidents and better accessibility for those who depend entirely on their own car. I understand the views that such signs should not be used other than in special campaigns, and the State Road Service will continue a strict attitude towards roadside advertising for businesses that are not directly related to the needs of road users. The signs have now been removed and will not be set up again in consultation with the road manager. The Road Directorate will intensify the use of such campaign signs only in the context of nationwide campaigns such as: ‘Use safety belts’ and ‘Reducing speed’, which directly increase road safety for the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1508	I thank the Council of State for briefing me on the sign to get people to use more bus. It's okay to get people to use more buses, but the signs have had a danger in them. Personally, I spent 13 seconds reading the text on the signs, and if I had spent 13 seconds looking at the sign instead of driving a car, I would have been a danger in the traffic. I guess there are such things that have done that the signs are now taken down. So I want this not to happen, and that the Road Service also goes in itself in terms of road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1516	This question, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1519	I then allow myself to ask the question: ‘In the ‘State of the Kingdom’ programme on TV 2 26 October 2000, the Port Director of Oslo, Per Mauritz Hanssen, stated that he was the one who wrote about the port and the use of port areas in Oslo in the national transport plan, which was recently submitted to the Stortinget. What comment does the Council of State have on this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1528	My comment on the question from the representative Dørum is that it is the Ministry of Fisheries that has written the text in the National Transport Plan that deals with the port and the future of port activities in Oslo. In other words, it is not right that the port director in Oslo has written the mentioned text in the plan. However, the Norwegian Harbour Federation has made representations to the Ministry of Fisheries in relation to the infrastructure of ports and the establishment of inter-municipal cooperation. This was done on the basis of the fact that the Norwegian Harbour Association is the umbrella organisation for Norwegian ports and thus the organisation closest to providing a factual basis for the municipal development of Port-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1533	I thank the Council of State for making it clear in its clear and scarce form who is responsible for what text. I also assume that the Council of State can then agree with me that to the extent that Oslo port is known through the bodies of the port, it is the board of the port that draws for the port, and not the director. It may be important to note that, in fact, prior to the programme submitted, the Port Board has adopted guidelines for the port which are well along the way in line with what Oslo City Council has previously stated. I see it as a very positive development and I just want to see from the pulpit of the Storting, in addition to the right of a Council of State to obtain opinions anywhere, that if there is to be any line to the port, the line must go through the board and not through the director.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1538	I fully agree with the representative Dørum that the lines should be as described by the representative. Just like Dørum, I am very pleased that we have now received a positive drive in this process, and have received good processes between the port and the municipality that will certainly result in both a good port and a reasonable expansion of the port areas in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1543	Let me be allowed to make a brief comment on what has been said – I am pleased with what the Council of State has said. At the time that I was Minister of Transport, we had some road managers whose indisputable skill stood there, but sometimes they acted as a cross of lords and governors. Then it was a government council's duty to tell you that "you're a good man, but you're not a loner." I note that the Minister for Fisheries and I share a common view of the Port Director of Oslo in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1553	This question, from Brother Yngve Rahm to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1556	I have a question for the Minister for Transport, to which the Minister for Fisheries will then answer: ‘In almost two years, local stakeholders and the NSB have cooperated on a pioneer project for setting up and operating the Time train between Notodden and the Border Area. The preparations were almost complete, and the start date was set. In the final phase, the NSB withdraws from cooperation and endangers the entire project. Is the State Council behind the action of the NSB and, if not, can it contribute to the realisation of the project, possibly by means of new external actors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1565	The NSB has sufficient robustness in the short term for few drivers to implement the planned route programme. The company has therefore had to adjust parts of the train traffic on several routes in order to gain control of the route production so that the offer becomes predictable for customers. This affects, for example: the train offer at Bratsbergbanen. The time train Bratsbergbanen AS had planned to use drivers with a different competence than the drivers of the NSB. The NSB has not chosen to implement a scheme where concerns about road safety may be raised. This combined with the scarcity of drivers has caused the NSB to put the Time train plans on ice. The time train has worked for the approval of the company as an independent traffic operator. Final approval is currently not available and in any case operations cannot be started until such approval is obtained. Final type-approval of the material remains and final approval by the State Railway Authority, which may follow after approval by the Railway Agency. In addition, problems with lack of driver resources remain. Due to the lack of drivers, the NSB does not consider it realistic to implement the Timetog concept on Bratsbergbanen now. The company will need to be provided with significant capital in order to be able to continue with a view to starting up at a later date, when the driver situation has improved and necessary approvals are available. There has been contact with potential stakeholders for the acquisition of holdings in the company without it being possible to reach an agreement. I have been informed that the NSB will thus go in to wind up the company. However, the NSB underlines that, if stakeholders report during the liquidation period, they will be open to negotiation. This will require that new owners have sufficient financial strength to operate train services and that there is no need for increased government appropriations for the purchase of passenger services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1578	I thank you for a little uplifting response. Let me point out a significant aspect of the Council of State's argument. It is actually not right that there is a lack of drivers who have done this. What's the situation, is that there are internal conflicts in the NSB that NSB chooses to solve by letting it go against minority shareholders in a company that had the right to life. My question to the Council of State is, who is it that determines the competence of the drivers of the NSB? Is it the train drivers' organisations, or is it the Railway Authority? This is an important question because the drivers who were already cleared to be able to drive on this track were therefore approved by the Railway Authority and had the competence to do so. Who should be the authority of decision in such a context? I must ask the Council of State to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1587	I would like to stress that as regards the cancellation of the train offer at Bratsbergbanen from 20 October, it is initially necessary to consider as a time-limited measure and that, according to the NSB – which is in any case responsible for this – is a consequence of the situation of the driver. The national transport plan provides for a broad assessment of the overall regional and local train offer, including the train offer on Bratsbergbanen, in the context of the negotiations for a new framework agreement for the purchase of passenger transport services by the NSB from the State for the period 2002 to 2005. In the case of concrete, precise assessments of the responsibilities between the different parts of the NSB and the Railway Agency, I must be allowed to come back to this in a detailed manner from the Ministry of Transport directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1596	I can see the needs of the State Council as a non-scientific state council for a more in-depth review of this. But I take note that the Government has no clear opinion about who should actually be responsible for the level of competence within the railway, whether it is the Railway Authority or the various organisations. What is the reality of this project is that local stakeholders who have contributed millions of dollars are holding a counter, because in this context the NSB has not fulfilled its obligations under an agreement that has been concluded. I also record that the government chooses to rest back without taking any initiative, which the Ministry of Transport can do politically, to whisper a little word to the NSB that this is a very unfortunate behaviour on the part of the NSB, and that we do not expect to become a model in the future. I have also registered that the Council of State will not here and now indicate that the State will purchase services to some particular extent if new external actors are to be included in the picture. We have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1613	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1619	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, the Directorate-General for Fisheries and the ESA have been running a continuous campaign against wood as a material related to fish production. New research shows that wood is better suited than plastics. A number of fishing practices have been dropped due to these tightening requirements. Now it turns out that the home of these shards and loads is questionable. What will the Council of State do to remedy the serious damage caused by the closure of fishing facilities by many fishing communities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1628	From time to time, a discussion arises as to whether a cutting board made of wood is perhaps hygienically better than a cutting board made of plastic material. The background is studies where bacteria have been shown to survive less time on wood than on plastics. The results are attributed to the fact that wood may contain bactericidal substances. This has been used by some to argue against the requirement that wood materials are normally not allowed in food businesses unless specifically seized or protected. This requirement is set out in the Quality Regulation for fish and fishery products of 14 June 1996 §§3 and 6. However, all studies show that checking the amount of bacteria after washing and disinfecting the cutting boards is not preferable to plastic. Wood does not have the characteristics desired for surface use in food businesses. They are required to be smooth and easy to washable. Wood is quickly tiled, cracked and chopped, especially in areas where much water is used, as in a seafood business. The surface characteristics of establishments producing food are not specific to the EEA territory. Recommendations for smooth and easily washable surfaces have also been made by Codex Alimentarius, the UN organisation that produces international standards for food production. In the event of a trade dispute in food safety under the WTO Agreement, these standards will be used as a reference. Since the Norwegian seafood industry is largely based on the export market, compliance with the international food production requirements will provide better market access for the industry as a whole. However, it is important for the fisheries management to take into account any specific conditions of seafood production where hygiene requirements from agro-food production are transferred to the seafood industry. However, the assessment that wood cannot initially be used as a surface in food-producing establishments has not been found to raise doubts. With regard to the last part of the question from Steinar Bastisen, this is a question that has been raised in the Storting several times in recent times. In this context, I would therefore like to limit myself to reminding myself that both the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Fisheries have asked the State Food and Rural Development Fund to give priority to enterprises that do not currently meet today’s hygiene requirements, within the SND’s ordinary instrument. Otherwise, I can tell you that as late as October 24th this year I had a meeting with SND there, among other things. this case was discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1647	I thank the Council of State for the answer. After three years of hammering and jamming from this pulpit on this very issue, it is interesting to hear that guidance has now been given that the SND and the Ministry of Local Affairs should look at these companies that are threatened with closure. But what about those who have already closed down? We're both aware that it's drawing a list of businesses that are going to be closed down. At least they have to be protected by means so that they can be upgraded. It is remarkable that the legislation is designed so that it is not in line with the research reports that say that wood is actually better than plastic. The exercise of the existing legislation, both in the Directorate-General for Fisheries and in ESA, would not have allowed fish to be served at the restaurants in Norway if that legislation had been established. It's a strange and remarkable problem. What does the Council of State have to say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1654	I think it is right to draw the attention of the representative of Bastisen to the fact that large parts of the Norwegian fishing industry have taken the orders that have come from ESA, very seriously, that they have made large investments in the necessary upgrades that are necessary to meet the requirements set by the EEA and the Codex Alimentarius, but which are also a requirement of the company's customers. I think it shows that a form has been found on this and a level that a large proportion of businesses have accepted. This has also been largely funded by SND. It is very difficult for me to comment on the state of hygiene in the Norwegian restaurant industry is satisfactory, but I assume that the State Food Authority, on behalf of the authorities, ensures that public health is properly taken care of there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1661	I thank you again for the answer. I'm going to tell the President and the Minister for Fisheries a little story about that right there. A fishing establishment receiving crabs on the trombone layer coast was in the process of shutting down due to requirements from the Directorate-General for Fisheries control. But after being there for an hour, we got closed a wall and opened three doors, and then the company sorted as produced, under food control. The Council of State here insinuates that the requirements of the Food Authority must be significantly worse and that public health in Norway is worse. I doubt that. In fact, I believe that the rules of the Food Safety Authority are better suited to public health and food safety in Norway. But if it has become so in the Norwegian fishing industry that more stringent rules are needed for the export of fish than for the fish we are going to eat ourselves in Norway, we are on wild roads. It must then be high time to look at the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1670	I'm not insinuating anything about public health. But it is true, as the representative Bastisen says, that there is a difference between the legislation of the State Food Authority and that of the export of fish. More stringent requirements are laid down for a holding intended to export fish than for a holding to be traded locally. In fact, I believe that there can be a reasonably clear and logical justification for this. For goods to be transported for a long period of time, it is not unreasonable to have even more stringent hygiene than is available for goods produced locally. However, I have full confidence that this is handled in such a way that Norwegian public health is safe and that it is still safe to eat Norwegian seafood in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1679	‘In the course of interviews in the ‘State of the Kingdom’ TV 2 programme, the Port Manager of Oslo documents that he is actively combating decisions in Oslo City Council regarding future urban and port development. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with existing legislation and the Government's view of local self-government, and does the Council of State consider it wise that this port manager is alone to represent Oslo in the envisaged Port Law Committee?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1686	The representative Foss has asked me two questions. Let me first respond to the Government's view of local self-government in relation to port activities. Ports have been transferred from 1985 to the municipalities. This means that managing port operations is primarily a municipal responsibility. These activities are subject to the provisions of the Law on Ports and Waterways of 1984. As long as the activities are carried out within the framework of the law, the municipal port operation does not concern the department. Compared to the further development of Oslo port, this is detailed in St.meld No. 46 for 1999-2000 National Transport Plan 2002-2011. As this port is a national port, its further development is important in addition to the municipal needs. I have established a dialogue with the Oslo Municipality and Oslo Port Government on the further process and relate to these parties in the further development of Oslo Port. In this dialogue, I see opportunities to find solutions that satisfy both the municipality's needs for urban development areas and the business needs for rational transport solutions. Question no. 2 on the Port Law Committee is based on a misunderstanding. Oslo Municipality is not invited to sit in this selection. The organisations invited to sit in this selection are the Local Governments’ Central Association, the Norwegian Harbour Federation, the Transport Users’ Joint Organisation, the Norwegian Fisheries Team, the Land Association of the Oil Industry and the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association. The committee will be appointed in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1697	I register that the Minister of Fisheries perceives the relationship with the Municipality of Oslo as a dialogue. It requires a mutual view of it as a dialogue. My impression is that the Municipality of Oslo does not perceive that they are in a dialogue with the Minister for Fisheries. There is no misunderstanding when I ask the question about the municipality of Oslo can be invited to sit in the port committee. It is the State Council itself who decides who is to be invited, and my question is this: if the Municipality of Oslo will be invited to sit in the Ports Committee, considering that there are different interests between the views of nationwide organisations on port and the views of the osloford region on port. It is very, very clear. I can only draw the attention of the Council of State to the problems the Government itself has in reaching an agreement on the exploitation of the Bjørvika areas, such as. is due to disagreement as to who actually disposes of and owns the port areas, the municipality of Oslo or the port of Oslo, and who has the right to dispose of them further. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Fisheries how he will deal with the new request he has received from the mayor of Oslo to reconsider the question, whether the Municipality of Oslo can nevertheless be represented in the sample, despite the composition that the Council of State has now planned to give, cf. letter dated 31 October.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1706	It is my firm belief that the Ministry of Fisheries is in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo. I have held meetings between the Ministry of Fisheries and Oslo Port, between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Municipality of Oslo and between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Municipality of Oslo. This forms the basis for the further dialogue, where I have said that I do not accept that the issue is urban development or port. It must be possible to address port needs without jeopardising urban development opportunities. We have a good tradition of choosing representative organisations to sit in the type of sample proposed here. I still don't think it's natural that Oslo Port, although it's special, is invited to sit in this selection. I believe it is natural for ports to be represented through the Harbour Federation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1713	Urban development and port development may be on collision courses. That's it. today. It can be solved. Here, the port union, at the port manager in Oslo, represents one party. I note that the formal approach of the Council of State to the issue leads to only one view of the conflict between port development and urban development being represented. I understand that the dialogue with the municipality of Oslo does not include the admission of the municipality of Oslo to be represented in the sample. Then there's little dialogue left. Then I get to try one last twist here. With reference to the answers to previous questions today, about dealing with the port administration, I would suggest that it might be possible for Oslo port administration to be represented by its leader, if that is so that the view of local democracy excludes that a municipality that is particularly affected can be represented, in particular taking into account that it also has the status of a national port.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1720	There are eight ports which have the status of national port. Oslo is one of these. We've found it right to let the ports be represented and let the Municipalities' Central Association be represented in the sample. Then I believe that there should be a good and fair balance in this relationship. I also believe that it should be possible to implement a development in Oslo where the port needs are addressed in the municipality of Oslo or in surrounding municipalities in such a way that urban development is achieved. However, it will not be possible to remove ports until alternative solutions are established, and I understand that the parties are agreed upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1728	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Upgrading the fairway on the west side of the municipality of Vikna will be of great importance to ensure the everyday life of local and local fishermen. In view of the fact that the City of Vikna has been refused by the Coastal Directorate on application for funds to upgrade two further areas on the west side of Vikna, I would like to ask whether the Council of State is willing to implement the necessary measures, so that the cooperation between the Municipality of Vikna, the District of Nord-Trøndelag and the County of Vikna can be continued.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1737	Vikna Municipality took this matter up with me in a letter dated 14 July this year. I replied in a letter of 9 August that unfortunately there was no funds for re-priorities for 2000 for a further remark by the member on the west side of the municipality of Vikna. I agree that there is a need for this paragraph to be mentioned. This is one of several coastal projects where further action is needed. The 2001 draft budget included a real increase in the budget of 14.9 million new fireworks and branding services. kr. In addition, a real increase of 2 million is proposed. kr for increased maintenance costs. The government has taken the view that there is a need to increase safety for fast boats and major passenger ferries. In the present proposal for further labelling of the member at Vikna, the preliminary cost estimate is around 2.9 million. kr. I am aware that there is a dialogue on joint financing with both the municipality, the county and the coastal community, but that the main emphasis of the funding will be on the Coastal Agency's budget. Assuming that the Storting joins the Government's budget proposal to strengthen the service of fireworks and brands, I would ask the Coastal Directorate to consider the project at Vikna in relation to other projects, in order to ensure a good professional prioritisation of the most necessary measures increasing the safety of human life, the environment and ships. I also draw attention to the fact that safety and prosperity at sea are a priority area in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 National Transport Plan 2002-2011. The Government has introduced an increase in the planning framework for this purpose for the period 2002-2011. My conclusion, therefore, is that the member west of the municipality of Vikna will be marked, but the timing of labelling will depend on the annual budgetary procedures and a professional assessment of this measure in relation to other important projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1748	I thank you for your answer. It's a pleasure if this is how to understand that the Council of State here can almost confirm that the funds needed for proper labelling have been put in place in Vikna. In that case, it would be a great pleasure both for the fishing industry in Vikna and for the population, who have been fighting for 40 years now to get that marking. In a number of cases, major off-shore accidents, including the most well-known ‘Sanct Swithun’ accident, have also been reported in 1962. Is it understood that the Council of State can now accept — if the budgetary decision presented by the Government is adopted with that allocation — that the City of Vikna will be prioritised?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1757	What I made quite clear was that the marking of the entrance to Vikna will be a priority. It will be done in a professional assessment, and we are actually in a situation where we need to prioritize this area together with others. So I can confirm that it will be prioritised, and that the work will be done, but it is not possible for me at this stage to specify an exact time for when this will happen. The entrance to Vikna is very difficult. It will also be in the future even if it is marked. So it's clear that this is an important task.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1765	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The white tail of the measles, the wheel steamer ‘Skibladner’, has been instructed for a closed toilet system, which cannot be done without conversion. This is both difficult and economically expensive, but most of all a matter of cultural protection. Will the Council of State contribute to the exemption of «Skibladner», so that the boat can still sail on Mjösa to our delight?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1774	Skibladner is an important living cultural memory not only for the Mjøsregion, but for the whole of Norway, and very important to take care of. At the same time, Mjösa is also the source of drinking water for about 80,000 people in this region. There is, therefore, one issue in which different environmental considerations need to be assessed against each other. The complaint about the Maritime Directorate’s refusal to apply for a derogation from AS Oplandske Dampskipsselskap was sent to the Ministry of the Environment for a decision last week, and I will now seek to find a solution to this matter that takes care of both of these considerations in a good way. It is very positive that there is significant local involvement around the progress of Skibladner, and I want close contact with all involved and interested parties in the further handling of complaints from AS Upland Steamship Company. It is now important for the company early to clarify the framework conditions for next year's sailing season. I will therefore ensure that the complaint is dealt with quickly in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1783	I thank the Council of State for the answer on this important matter. I also thank the Council of State for spending time and energy on this so that it will go quickly, but I hope – and I am absolutely convinced – that the Council of State will also use the time needed to give us a correct answer in this important matter. Skibladner is an old boat, 144 years old, and it is not so easy to rebuild it, as one might have to do if one is to have a closed system. It means some pipes here and there, one tank and one tank with the other. That conversion is now one thing, but there is also the cost of it. After I have been examined, such a conversion will cost approx. One million. NOK, and the operating costs will be approx. $100,000 a year. Does the Council also look at this when she looks at the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1790	I want to confirm that I want to spend time and effort on the matter to find a good solution, which means to weigh the different considerations against each other. There must also be a solution that is practicable to implement, so that we can achieve the goal that most of us agree on, that Skibladner will be able to sail on Mjösa again next year. The proceedings of the Ministry of the Environment shall be expeditious and expeditious.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1795	I thank you again for the answer. I see in the ‘Newsletter on Local Agenda 21’, published by the Riksantikvaren, that the Council of State has been referred and interviewed. There the Council of State says: ‘Betting is a local strength. One of the areas for which I will be remembered as Minister for the Environment is what I get done for cultural memory protection." So there are many sides to the same thing. I am convinced, on the basis of what the Council of State has said, that she will do everything in her power to prevent Mjösa’s white swan, ‘Skibladner’, from being parked. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1809	I confirm that I am in charge of the interview on cultural memories. I believe that the consideration of "skibladner" as a cultural memory in this context can be well preserved, while at the same time taking care of the other important environmental considerations in this context, namely the emissions to Mjösa. We have to find a solution that takes care of both of these considerations. It must be a realistic solution that can be implemented within the possible framework of which we operate. And I have good faith that we're going to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1817	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘When the Minister of Environment told on 6 October 2000 that the Government had decided to allow gas power plants without cleaning the CO2 emissions, the Council of State said that it was likely that gas power stations would lead to overall emission reductions in Europe. Research Manager Torstein A. Bye in SSB says to Dagbladet on 27 October 2000 that gas power stations are most likely to contribute to increased total CO2 emissions. Why did the Council of State miss that part of the SSB report?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1826	I have provided all relevant information in connection with my handling of the case. In my examination of the case, I have built on the available supporting documentation and obtained additional technical assessments of the legal, environmental and energy nature. Below, I have obtained up-to-date assessments from the energy authorities of how the energy market will react if the amount of power from two natural power plants is added. In the context of this supplementary assessment, the OED has carried out model calculations at the Frischsenteret and the Statistical Central Bureau. In a comprehensive note from the OED that followed the case at a wide public hearing this summer and in addition was made available together with the other documents of the case on the Internet, it is among others. provided a detailed review of these modelling calculations. On the basis of the questions raised by the representative, Mr Enoxsen, I consider it appropriate to underline three aspects relating to the content of this consultation document: 1st@item: inlistbox The note from the OED reviews all the calculation options performed by the Statistical Central Bureau.2. The material available from the Statistical Central Bureau did not express any assessment of the likelihood of the different options.3. The figures compiled by the OED were submitted to the responsible researchers. OED’s conclusion builds, among other things, on an evaluation of the material submitted by the investigating bodies. The summary in the OED note states: ‘The Ministry’s treatment of the energy concession case in 1997 concluded that gas power stations were the most likely to reduce CO2 emissions. The modelling currently carried out does not imply that this conclusion is modified.» It has been my job to make an assessment of the entire material. I have done so, and concluded that the most likely thing is that gas power plants in Norway will lead to a reduction in total CO2 emissions in Northern Europe. Finally, I would like to stress that the OED review of the complex and comprehensive research results from several research environments with different scenarios of power demand and energy prices shows that both past and new materials are moving in the same direction. The conclusion that it is considered most likely that the total emissions will decrease, I therefore feel secure. In my decision, and later presentation of this in relation to both Stortinget and the media, I have therefore referred to the investigation material that has followed the case, but did not find it natural to go into the individual research results.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1864	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The situation is that in the debate on environmental protection policy held in Stortinget on 12 October, it pointed to the report by the Frischsenteret as a complement to the SSB report. Now, however, the situation is that, after the State Council's statement, on 31 October, there is a headline in the Daily Journal in which the researcher at the Frischsenteret who has conducted these studies says the following to Dagbladet: ‘But I would point out that uncertainty is always linked to such analyses, he says and refers to point 14 of the Centre’s investigation. Researchers conclude that there are so many uncertainties in several key factors that ‘our results are considered uncertain’.’» [[must]] In view of the fact that the Ministry of the Environment stated in the press release on 27 October that the analyses are mainly based on modelling from the Frischsenter and the SSB, and both of these institutes have now raised major questions about the conclusions – does the Minister for the Environment maintain that it is most likely to lead to reductions, or does she agree with the Minister of Oil and Energy who said earlier today that it is more likely that it will lead to reductions than to increased emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1876	I remember that my job has been to follow up the Storting decision, which I have done through a thorough and open procedure, a specific test under the pollution law. It is also my job to make a decision. I have done so on the basis of a very broad material that I have previously presented in major debates, and I have also replied in a letter to the Committee. This is a complex material. Some of it, including the evaluations of the Statistical Central Bureau and the Centre are based on modelling. There will always be some uncertainty about such modelling, simply because they deal with the future. As I said earlier, we cannot be absolutely certain about the future. But the models used are the best tool we have to assess future conditions in the energy market. The results from them point in the same direction, and given that, I am sure of my conclusion that the most likely thing is that the total emissions will fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1883	The sloping security that various state councils are now demonstrating in this matter is alarming. One is on the waving front in relation to the assessments that come from different professional bodies. Significant doubts have been raised both from the EU Environment Agency, from the SSB and from the Freshhouse on whether building gas power plants in Norway will actually lead to a global decline in CO2 emissions. My knowledge of the energy market in Europe suggests that the production of cheap coal power will not be limited in Denmark if so many gas power plants are never built in Norway. This will not contribute to increased CO2 emissions. The assessment you're building on in this way, I'd like to see it, because when the SSB concludes that the low prices of the option are the most likely option, I'm going to share that assessment in full. It has therefore gone from being sure, as Prime Minister Stoltenberg said yesterday, that this will lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions, that it will most likely lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions – the oil and energy minister says today that it is more likely to lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions than the opposite. This I must say is to be on the waving front of a government that has a very bad case for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1892	I think we have to distinguish two things in this case. On the one hand, we had the Stortingen debate on the energy communication earlier this year, when the bulk of the population clearly concluded with the desire to use gas power in Norway. On the other hand, the Ministry of the Environment has now made a concrete assessment of the case and tried it under the pollution law. Then we have evaluated all the available material, of which a number of research reports are quoted, and thus made an assessment of all this complex material. Moreover, it is not possible to say that the report involves some emphasis on the different options, as I explained in my reply. In this area, the report is ready. But it is obvious that model calculations dealing with the future cannot be entirely certain. Therefore, our conclusion that emissions are most likely to decline is a safe conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1902	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1905	‘Adopting children from abroad is a long and difficult process. It may take several years and may incur considerable costs for the individual. I'm aware that for each adoption, you can count on a cost of up to 130,000 kroner. This may lead to the failure of qualified adoption applicants to afford to adopt. What can be done to ensure that the individual’s economy does not become a decisive factor in whether or not to adopt?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1912	I will answer the question on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. I want to stress that I see adoption as a good and equivalent way of forming a family. I am pleased to note that Norway is one of the countries that receives most foreign-adopted children in relation to the population. The number of adoptions carried out in the post-1980s has remained relatively stable at around 550 p.m. years. In recent years, however, we have been able to record some increase, to approx. 600 adoptions per year. years. Today, about 15 000 children come to Norway from abroad. Against this background, I am therefore very concerned about facilitating sound arrangements, so that adoptions can take place in reassuring ways with respect for the child, its country of origin and, in particular, the adoption applicants. In recent years, authorities have spent a lot of time and resources ensuring a sound adoption process. The overall framework for work on foreign adoptions has been established through the ratification by Norway of the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in International Adoptions. Norway ratified the Convention in 1997. The Convention continues and deepens the principle of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child that international adoption can be a good alternative for children who cannot receive adequate care in their country of origin. The purpose of the Convention is to discourage the purchase and sale of children and to establish a number of procedures to be followed by countries when adopting children across borders. Furthermore, recent clarifications and clarifications have been made regarding the legal and regulatory framework for the examination of the application for adoption. This also applies to the requirements of the authorities for organisations, which have important tasks in assisting applicants throughout the adoption process. I understand that adoption of children from abroad incurs considerable costs for the family. In order to ensure that adoption can be done as far as possible without hindrance to the individual's income, a single-use scheme was introduced in 1992 for the adoption of children from abroad to adoptive parents. The aim was to prevent the parents' economy from deciding too much on the possibility of adopting. For next year's budget, the Government has unfortunately had to propose to reduce this allocation, which means that the aid will be reduced from NOK 20 000 per year. adoption to NOK 15 000. The cut in the appropriations should not be understood as a deprioritisation of the adoption field but as a result of a demanding and complex budgetary procedure, in which difficult balances are made. In this context, it is important to recall that the State pays operating aid annually to adoption organisations, for example. reducing the costs for individual adoption applicants. Organisations have also received financial support in recent years for information activities such as: addresses adoptive applicants. The representative, Kvassheim, points out that adopting children from abroad is a long and heavy process. Since the adoption authorities have a special responsibility for cross-border adoptions, one must, in my opinion, accept and expect this type of case to take some time. However, I agree that the time taken to decide on a pre-consent application for adoption has been too long in recent years. The country’s youth and adoption offices have spent a lot of time and resources achieving the objective of reducing the length of proceedings. It is therefore very gratifying that the Agency has now achieved the objective of three months' average duration of proceedings. I would also like to add that, in cooperation with the Ministry, the State Youth and Adoption Office will continue the overall review of the adoption process with a view to simplifying and streamlining domestic and foreign adoptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1933	It was an answer with a description of the facts – and some statements of intent. Now it is not the case that the Workers' Party in the autumn cut the adoption aid for the first time in a budgetary situation. One has used all sorts of things and – I was saying – impossible opportunities to cut into this scheme in the last few years. It is therefore not the situation in the autumn that is the background to policy in this area. There has been a general downgrading of this over several years. My question to the Council of State is: does he not understand that people who are concerned with this question experience it as a down-priority when a repeated kutter in the support schemes, as has been done in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1942	I can't see that the representative Kvassheim gives a completely correct picture of the one-off support scheme at adoption. The one-off scheme for the adoption of foreign children was introduced from 1992, in fact on a proposal from the government of Harlem Brundtland, a workers’ party government. The first year was the grant of NOK 10 000 for each child who was adopted. The introduction of the scheme was justified by the fact that adoption by the rest of the world entails high costs and a grant to cover such costs seemed reasonable. The scheme was very well received by the adoption applicants and the adoption associations. The size of the one-off aid has changed several times and there has been a continuous discussion of the aid. In 1992, it amounted to NOK 10,000, and so was it in 1993. Then, in 1994, the aid increased to NOK 30 000. Since then, the scheme has changed in size several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1949	It is possible that I did not give a correct description of the Workers' Party's history in this area when I said that one has used all occasions. I'm going to nuance myself by saying that one has used most of the opportunities to cut the support. It is very easy to demonstrate that this down-priority – from NOK 30000 to today’s level – has been done with vigorous efforts by the Workers’ Party and in many contexts in interaction with the Right and the Advance Party. So I hope that the Council of State can confirm that in the budgets ahead he will not balance with this item, where the cut of the year is only 3 million. kr. In a budget where new, heavy projects are being lifted, most of the opinion is that this is depriority. I can reassure the Council of State that on the left and centre sides, a targeted work will be done in the autumn budget to get this cut back.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1954	I cannot, of course, offer any guarantees for the next year's budget, including: because the Labour Party does not have a purely majority in this House and has to deal with other parties in order to get through a budget. What I can confirm is that we have a strong commitment that it will be possible both economically and practically through effective process to have adopted children from abroad. I record that the representative Kvassheim says this is a priority matter in the budget negotiations that we are in the middle of. I hope that the negotiations will be reached, and that this is not the case. If both parties have a willingness to come up with a solution, I think we're going to come up with a budget that, in sum, is going to be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1959	Then we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1965	This question, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Church, Education and Research as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1968	‘This summer, the EFTA Court found out that a Swedish system of own professorships is contrary to the EU Directive on equality. The government's proposal of 20 professors' eartags to women can thus also become known illegal. The nomination of women is controversial but turns out to be an effective instrument in gender equality. What will the Government do to preserve the right of self-determination in this area, in order to strengthen gender equality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1975	Women today represent a majority of students at universities and colleges, but are surprisingly poorly represented at all levels in research and among scientific staff. It is a very important objective of the Government to strengthen gender equality in the sector, which will be reflected in the Ministry of Church, Education and Research policy document on gender equality, as well as in the draft State budget. In this year's government has proposed to earmark 40 postdoctoral positions and 20 professorates for women. At the same time, the Ministry has called on universities and colleges to draw up their own action plans for gender equality, with concrete measures for gender equality. I also point out that the Law of Higher Education has a separate provision that allows only to publish posts for the underrepresented sex. Among several educational institutions that have taken this challenge seriously, I will bring out the University of Oslo. As a single measure to increase the proportion of women in scientific positions, the University has decided to designate postdoctoral positions for women. The judgment referred to by the representative of Langeland is probably a decision of 6 July this year by the European Court of Justice, i.e. not by the EFTA Court, as stated in the question. Since the judgment has been delivered following the signature of the EEA Agreement, it is not directly binding on Norway. Judgments given after this date still have a bearing on the interpretation of our EEA obligations. The case before the European Court of Justice this summer is a so-called preliminary ruling, i.e. a national court has asked the European Court of Justice to give its opinion on the interpretation of Community law. The question was whether a provision of the Swedish Higher Education Regulation complies with the 1976 Equality Directive, which is part of the EEA Agreement. The Swedish provision gives access to employing a person of the under-represented sex in front of a person of the other sex, even if the latter is better qualified. The European Court of Justice ruled that such a system is incompatible with the Directive. So the issue is not about the designation of certain positions for women, but about access to radical sex quotas. I have not assessed the decision in such a way that a Norwegian system of designation of separately established positions for the underrepresented sex is contrary to the EEA Agreement. Neither the European Court of Justice nor the EFTA Court of Justice has ruled that such an arrangement is contrary to the Directive. My assessment of this question is shared by the Equality Ombudsman. The Ministry has explained in its reply to ESA the great need for concrete, effective measures to increase the proportion of women in scientific positions and that the designation of positions is considered a necessary measure to achieve this. In this context, the Ministry considers that the designation of positions is within the scope of the Equality Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e1998	SV is a hard critic of the Workers' Party's environmental policy, but I think it is important to appreciate the Workers' Party when they do something positive, as they try in gender equality policy. I hope that what the Council of State here expresses when it comes to our right of self-determination is the reality. As the Minister of Education, of course, knows, a human researcher in Norway has filed a complaint for the EU, so this will be a matter. Then there's a hypothetical question what to do if one gets a judgment against it. But I interpret the Council of State so that what is real is that the Labour Party at the Minister of Education – no matter what the EU says about that complaint – will be hard pressed for self-determination and that this will be followed up by the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2005	I can confirm that we will be hard pressed to increase equality in the university sector and in the academia. It's totally unsustainable that only 11 pst. of the professors in the academy are women, while at the same time we have a situation where over half of the students are girls. That's why I and the Workers' Party believe that we need to use relatively drastic tools to achieve this, and one of the tools we have used in the state budget, namely to designate professorates and postdoctoral positions for women. I am pleased that the representative Langeland gives us credit for that, and I will promise to follow up that work as best I can. I also hope, as the representative of Langeland, that those measures will not be found contrary to the legislation to which we have joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2013	I will ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Oslo Municipality has decided to apply for trials where students in secondary school, general education, are to be exempted from part of the Norwegian curriculum. The exemption shall cover the lateral dimension. It has been applied for under § 1-4 of the Training Act. The law allows for time-limited pedagogical or organisational trials. Does the Council of State consider that, in accordance with § 1-4, extensive experiments can be opened where a person deviates from the curriculum in a subject, and will the Council of State consult the Stortinget before the attempt is possibly granted?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2022	If the arrangements and measures a person wishes to test cannot be implemented within the framework of the legislation, according to the provisions of the Training Act in Sections 1 to 4 on experimental activities, it is possible to apply for deviations from the law and regulations. According to the Training Act § 1-4, it is added to the Department to decide on applications for deviations from the Act and the regulations of the Act. The Ministry is free to reject an application for testing. The Ministry has not yet received an application from the Municipality of Oslo for deviations from the Training Act § 1-4. I will take a decision on the application from the municipality of Oslo when it comes in. My basic opinion is that everyone should be trained in new Norse. If there is an application from the Municipality of Oslo, I am prepared to assess whether alternative forms of assessment should be opened and to facilitate pedagogical trials in order to improve the teaching of parallel objectives. As regards the question of consulting the Storting on test applications, it will be kept under constant review on a case-by-case basis. Until now, this has not been the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2035	I thank you for your answer. I perceive the Council of State so that the attempt that has been signalled from the Municipality of Oslo is not relevant. The council said he would open up alternative trials, with alternative forms of assessment. There are certainly attempts that the Municipality of Oslo has not applied for, or will be applied for – I do not know, but there is nothing to suggest that they will apply for it – so it is very difficult to grant something that no one is applying for! And that means that the attempt we're talking about here, to deviate from the curriculum, is out of the question. But what was really something from my point of view, was if the Council of State thinks that an attempt like this is about, to deviate from the curriculum, can be defined as a pedagogical or organisational experiment. There was little pre-work done to the law when it came up in Stortinget. It was the committee itself that raised it up, so there is quite little preparation for the legal text itself. But the question is, is this a pedagogical or organisational experiment? And can a person agree to that kind of experiment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2044	Both the representative Rikvam and I are well in the somewhat problematic situation that we are discussing an application for an experiment that has not yet arrived in the department. How the application is designed, we can speculate in the light of both discussions in the local policy in Oslo and discussions in the media, but I will wait to have categorical opinions about the appearance of the application, if any, before it comes. What I can say is that I mean that neuron should be part of the curriculum for all students. I believe that it should be in the future as well, and I see no value in attempts that take it completely out of the curriculum. On the other hand, I see great benefits in experiments that develop other forms of teaching, including, where appropriate, other forms of assessment in the field of the secondary objective, to see if it can improve education, strengthen students' interest in the subject and strengthen the enthusiasm for the subject at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2053	The councils have our full support in trying out new forms of assessment, but I'd say it would be a little unfortunate if we just linked it up to the side goal. This should apply to the entire Norwegian language, and not only to parts of the Norwegian language. So if he goes into that kind of experiment, he has our full support. But let's move away from this specific matter and move on to a general assessment, which I would like the Council of State to reflect a little bit around: if a municipality is applying for an attempt where a person wants to deviate from parts of an adopted curriculum, does the Council of State believe that one can do so in accordance with § 1-4? Are changes to the curriculum a pedagogical experiment or is it an organisational experiment? That's what I think is important to clarify. And if the Council of State is a little uncertain, my advice is that he should come to Stortinget, so that we can help him with that clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2060	I would say that you can't answer in principle no or yes to Rolf Reikvam's question. We have to look at it in each case. In my view, § 1-4 on experimentation must also give rise to deviations from the curriculum, so in principle I could have made a commitment to the type of application that you can wonder if the municipality of Oslo might be able to make. As far as alternative forms of assessment are concerned, we have given undertakings for tests involving the consideration of non-neural forms of assessment. However, the point of the experiment must be that it can have a useful value in the future. This house has decided that we should have two equal written goals in the country. Then I think we should also have it in school so that the students who are studying general education in high school get the basis that they have knowledge of and get introduction into both languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2072	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘A working group was set up to look at the situation of students with reading, writing and computing difficulties in higher education. Among other things, the working group had to consider admission to higher education, organisation of examinations, exemption from professional requirements in individual studies. How will the Council of State monitor the position of the Working Party delivered to the Ministry on 18 September of this year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2081	As the representative Wisløff Nilssen refers to in his question, in March this year a working group was set up to look at the situation of students with specific reading, writing and math skills in higher education. The recommendation of the working group was sent to the Ministry by letter of 27 September this year. The study has made an important effort to clarify key concepts such as ‘dyslexia’ and ‘dyscalculia’ and to discuss key issues related to the study situation of this student group. The working group has made proposals on the admission and conduct of studies. I have noticed that the group is proposing measures that concern both higher education and higher education. It is recommended in the report that higher education should focus more on alternative forms of assessment that can form the basis for higher education admission. The group proposes, inter alia: it should also be possible for disabled applicants without general study competence to be admitted to specific studies, following an assessment by the individual university. The working group presents a number of proposals that will improve the flexibility and organisation of the study situation and exams for these students. The report also proposes that, in certain cases, exemptions should be granted for assessment in Norwegian secondary objectives of general teacher training. The Ministry will now start work on the follow-up to the report. The various proposals in the report will be considered, including the organisation of studies and examinations and any changes to framework plans and admission regulations. The report, together with the Ministry's assessments and any proposed changes to the rules, will be sent to stakeholders at the hearing. However, I would like the report to be made known now, and will therefore ensure, as soon as possible, that it is first sent out for information and placed on ODIN. Finally, I would like to stress that the work group's proposals will be carefully assessed, and that the aim must be to improve the study opportunities for this group of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2096	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the department will now start work on the follow-up of the report. At the same time, I would like to say that it is good for the report to be sent out for information and posted to the ODIN, because then the minority's views become known in a correct and good way, which can provide useful feedback to the department. However, the report has been used to show that there is no statutory right to, for example, oral rather than written examination. The Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo has referred to the law and refused a student's oral exam. What can the Council of State do with such attitudes and to address the challenges, both in the short and long term, cf. action plans for disabled students and letters to educational institutions in our spring? It is claimed that there is a list of study directions that are now closed to dyslexics, such as the nursing and medical study. Does the Council have knowledge of such a list?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2107	I am convinced, like the representative Wisløff Nilssen, that both making the report known and publishing it on ODIN, but not least that we are sending it out to the hearing, will contribute to the fact that different views and assessments, perhaps both support and resistance to the proposals in the vote, will be affected and benefit the ministry. My goal is that people should have an equal opportunity for education, no matter what disability or starting point you have, and that even people who have problems reading and writing, or who have problems with mathematics, will get an opportunity. Of course, there will be some professions in which good literacy or accounting skills are the most important. In this sense, of course, there will be limitations on the possibilities. But it is my goal to strive as much as possible for everyone to have equal opportunity to take education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2116	That being the case, it is no. 1 on the map of the day has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-01.ana.ud1603e2125	There is no record available.
