ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e26	First, I would like to commend the Council of State for a statement that stressed that everyone should be guaranteed the right to education, that everyone should be able to participate in the knowledge society, that everyone should be given an opportunity in a good public school. It must not be the case in the Norwegian school system that the income of parents or individuals determines whether all should be able to obtain education. When the Stortinge adopted Reform 94, there were many who were skeptical. Now we see that many 16- to 19-year-olds have enjoyed the reform and have taken secondary education. The reform has ensured a better flow in vocational training. Now we can all say that the reform was right in the sense that more people now have the opportunity to move on with higher education. I am very pleased that we have now made the law that adult people should have the right to education. It's become a complicated society for many. That time is over when we left school and went to work and stood in the same job until we left with a pension. Now we have to prepare our children and young people for the fact that those who are now taking a high school degree will actually have to go out and out of their professional life in order to sit on the school bench for periods of time or to train themselves to the skills required by working life. We are still in need of continuing training because technology is still winning new areas. The reform of competences gives adults the right to education leave, and funding for studies shall be provided. This is where I'd like to ask the Council to be a little bit on guard. Maybe not all adults are positive about taking out loans to acquire skills. Adults may have just paid off their study loan and have their fixed expenses. It might mean that many people are willing to take leave from a well-paid job. For the trade union movement, the reform of continuing training has been very important — it has shown us the strike period — and should therefore be followed closely so that adults can have flexible offers adapted to the individual’s life situation and real skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e41	A few comments on the debate today. It is more than worrying that the Workers' Party on the one hand says that they respect parental rights and the ability to run private schools, and the committee leader on the other hand says that what the state is going to finance is another thing. But these are two sides of the same thing. It surprises me again and again that the Workers' Party does not see that the policy they are drawing up will lead to free school where only those with a good economy can go. Such a development does not want a Christian People's Party. It's nice that the Workers' Party does that. In the case of Oasen Children's School in Songdalen in West Agder, I have to say that it is sad and very worrying that the Council of State acts completely across what he knows is the will of the majority of people. Yes, he almost asks to be put in place by Stortinget. So to proposal No. 1, from the representative of Reikvam on behalf of SV. I think it is really good, concrete proposals that can lead to renewal and improvement in school. But the central government was able to reverse the school pyramid, from a strong top management to giving the individual school and learning the ability to develop the school from below. Many different attempts are already being made at school, and teachers and principals are visiting each other to find new ideas for new educational activities, new tools and new ways of organising education. There is a spread of belief that individual teachers and schools themselves can set in motion and carry out development work. The confidence shown by the pedagogues in this work must now not be taken from them. The Christian People's Party is concerned that this development must continue. I think the representative Rikvam also wants to, but as the proposal is promoted, I think a lot of a teacher will perceive it so that now the state will once again be the one to think about the ideas, present them to the school and get someone to try out what the other has been thinking about. It's a way of working that, unfortunately, could be a part of tying up the imagination and reinventing a sense of abstinence, which is one of the last things we need in a somewhat stressed learning class today. There was little new in the State Council’s presentation — and it is positive in the sense that the developments that have taken place in recent years during the central government can continue. And state councils will encourage further development of new methods and reorganization in school from grassroots. I look forward with excitement to a development of teacher training, as well as what happens in school with new trials and good experience from there. That must be our common challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e56	I come back to two questions that I have discussed with the Council of State earlier in the debate without getting a clear answer. One concerns the Right proposal on the follow-up to the Berg Committee. The reason why we consider it a matter of urgency is that the Stortinget has previously discussed the dilemma of technical colleges and that we have a number of schools that are now suspended from the system. The point of making it a matter of urgency is that it is vital for us to clarify these issues so that they can be effective from the school/study year 2001 to 2002. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to state a little more precisely how he sees the time perspective on this. If the Council of State can promise that he will be able to follow this up so that it can take effect from the 2001 academic year, we can turn it into a transmission proposal. If not, I will maintain the proposal and ask for voting on it. The second question concerns the interpretation of the Private School Act by the Council of State. I asked a very precise question that I did not get an answer to in addition to the fact that the Council of State said that he would base his own judgement. It's not good enough when the Storting has explicitly stated the basis for the discretionary exercise in this area, and it's as late as December last year, i.e. less than half a year ago. Therefore, I would like to reiterate the question whether the Council of State in its discretionary exercise – which no one disputes that the Council of State should, of course, have, like any Council of State – will base the majority opinion expressed in December, more specifically on 14 December 1999, or whether the Council of State will base document No. The 8th proposal, which the majority of the population clearly rejected at the same time. The reason why I find it necessary to ask the question so precisely is that the department's decision in the appeal, the letter sent by the department to the local government in Songdalen, does not reveal in one place that the department has knowledge of what the Stortinget said last December. I would like to confirm both that the Ministry has knowledge of it and that the Ministry will base the assessment of the majority of the population on its discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e67	I would like to comment on these proposals that have been submitted to case no. 2 today. In the case of proposals No. 1-3 from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of SV, I would like to say that it is actually only just under one year since the Stortinget handle the message Towards richer goals, which just focused on the experimental and development work in the school. And as a follow-up to that big message, Stortinget has just decided to create a national centre for learning and development. This centre should help to give us a more holistic perspective on learning, on experimentation and development, on research and evaluation. The Centre shall assist the schools and municipalities in the field of research and development. At least we should, we thought from the Workers' Party's side, let the Centre be established before the Stortinget begins to control in detail what kind of trials and what kind of development project to start. That is why I ask Mr Reikham to make these three proposals for transmission proposals, also in the light of what the Council of State has said that he is in favour of many of the elements of these proposals. In the case of proposal No: 4, I think it could also have been a transmission proposal, because the Labour Party is in agreement with SV on these things. But I understand that there may be a bigger problem, so I want to say from the Labour Party that we will vote for the proposal if Rikvam does not convert it into a transmission proposal. In the case of proposal No: 5, from Ursula Evje, I think the Workers' Party will vote against it. I actually thought it would be right that the whole Big One did. Because once we have passed a law on private schools, a processed application that comes in, according to this law. Then the Storting should not make a new decision as to what kind of practice to follow. Then a man hath a law to deal with: and then shall one understand. It's under promise. Einar Dørum's proposal is a transmission proposal. I thought it was very good, and of course I support the fact that it was sent. In the case of proposal No: 7. After all, your salary has picked it up and asked the council to answer it. I thought the Council of State was very clear when he said that the hearing period is not over, and that one needed to see things in context in the department – it blotted out both the Mjøs selection and the Hervik selection. But it's clear that I'm agreed with Wage that what concerns the Berg selection's attitude must be ready for the school year next year. Whether we're going to set November or whatever the deadline, I think I'm a little subordinate, but I'm asking that Inge Wohnung, in the light of what he said – and as the Council of State will probably confirm – make this proposal for a transmission proposal. The last proposal, from Ursula Evje, will at least be the Labour Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e84	I have some brief comments at the end of the debate. I have noticed that the Council of State and the representatives of the Workers' Party went on to say free to the Centre Parties and the Christian People's Party. It's always nice to be the subject of attention, and that's an attention we'll manage well. We are focused on a case-by-case relationship with all parties where we can find common solutions. In the Christian People's Party, we actually focus on being predictable. We're voting for what we're for, and that's the line we want to put on. Otherwise, I find that in an attempt to clarify what is in the concept of 'common school', the Council of State was unable to tell if there is something particularly new about it in relation to the single school. I think it is positive that the Council of State emphasises the importance of organised training. It was also one of the elements in the old rhetoric about the primary school, so I'm a little bit in doubt about what the new concept of primary school is. But everything that can help draw attention to the individual student's needs and to the class environment, we think is positive. I also noticed the response of the Council of State to the representative of Reikvam on the Council of Technology. In the Christian People's Party too, we are concerned about the changes in the mandate announced by the Minister of Industry in the IT statement. It is important that the Technology Council maintains its independence and tries to bring about a public debate on the importance of technology. That's why technology criticism becomes so important. I am pleased that the Council of State will work to continue the tasks of today's mandate for the area of technology, but it remains to be seen whether the new mandate and the Minister of Industry agree on these matters. I find that the Council of State actually chooses to provoke the Stortinget in terms of the policy of high school. This is quite unnecessary, because today and in the past, the debate has made it clear that the majority of people from this autumn still stand by in their interpretation of the intentions of the private school law. Here's the Council of State that's in a minority. Finally, some comments on the proposals submitted. As regards proposal No: 1 from SV, your intention in that good. But I share the Workers' Party's assessment that there are things going on here, and we therefore recommend to SV to convert it into a transmission proposal. With regard to proposals Nos. 2 and 3, the Christian People's Party will support them. We agree with them. As regards proposal No: 4, it is important that the rules are complied with. But it assumes that we know the price tag before we go to law enforcement. We will therefore vote against proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox I would like to ask for the floor for a new post to comment on the rest of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e107	I will use this post to briefly say something about private schools and to give an explanation of vote. First about the private schools: I feel that the big debate that we had last December, which is referred to several times, drew up the margin of discretion for it at all times, and I feel that it is repeated in today's debate. I should like to comment on the individual proposals. First to SV's proposal No. 1 to 4. I have the opinion that in the case of proposal No. One, there's a lot going on. I personally believe that this should therefore be transmitted. Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 we see as useful and practical, and we'll vote for them. As regards proposal No: 4, we won't commit to law enforcement until we know exactly what that means. We will therefore either vote in favour of the transmission or against it if there is a motion for a resolution on the proposal. As regards proposal No: 5, from Ursula Evje, I feel no reason to vote in favour of a practice that is already confirmed by a delinquency treatment. In practice, this would lead to doubt as to whether the understanding should be understood there. Such a doubt will not help the Left, so we will vote against that proposal. As regards proposal No: 6, from the left, there's a transmission proposal, and I'm not saying anything more about it. As regards proposal No: 7, from the representative's salary, I await the Council's reply. But if the Right maintains the proposal, we will vote in favour of it. So to proposal No. 8, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Progress Party. The left was in that situation a few months ago that we criticized parties in the main hall to run detailed big business. I don't have such a short memory that I think one should deviate from that attitude now either, because what it's added up to here is definitely big business. And I don't think you should go into that. It is my opinion, both by looking at the correspondence in the matter and at the debate last year, that the school to which the proposal relates should have been approved. It is also my opinion that the problem referred to in the Songdalen municipality, which has led to the majority who have expressed themselves as they have done, should have been caught up in the positions expressed by the representative Tingelstad, that if the parental right is compromised because it becomes a private school, financial arrangements must be introduced to ensure that parental rights are respected. But we don't want to go into a procedure within the discretionary room that the Council of State has. Rather, we will retain our constitutional right and the opportunity to criticise later or to make the necessary suggestions that go into the discretionary room. That's how we'll go about voting later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e126	That is much the same as the representative Dørum said, as I will also present now. Let me first tell the representative Rikvam that I have to praise him once again, because he is very active, and he wants something to happen in school faster than it does. Let me underline that, it's positive. But at the same time, I'm terrified of overdoing the schools too much. I want developments to take place from the inside to the bottom. And they now have the framework conditions so that it can happen. That is why I want proposal No. 1 shall be transmitted. Proposal No. We will vote in favour of 2 in the Central Party. Proposal No. 3 we'll vote in favour. As regards proposal No: 4, I join in what has been said by the other representatives of the centre parties. I guess I also have the Council of State on my side, at least if I'm to believe what's in Norsk Skoleblad, that money is needed first and foremost for the municipalities. That is why we are not voting in favour of this proposal now. As regards proposal No: 5, from Ursula Evje, we do not vote for it. We don't want to instruct a government council in this way on a principle basis. That's what I said in my article. And I can say that the same thing applies to proposal No. Eight. In the case of proposal No: 6, which is a transmission proposal, which is very good in terms of content, we support it. As regards proposal No: 7, the representative has said how he can imagine this should be dealt with. If the Council of State responds positively, it is also a good idea for the Central Party to transmit it. But if he does not respond positively to it, we support the Right and will vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e141	Language is important, and it is a bit polite to record how a person has changed his language in a very short time with regard to private schools. In the past, we used the term private schools, because that's what it was. In this debate, most people have used the term ‘freshols’, and it is clear that it is not unconscious. It's a rather deliberate use of language to probably eliminate some of the things we're talking about here, namely private schools. I think we're still going to use the term private schools, because that's what we're really talking about when we're discussing this. So to some of the suggestions. First, I would like to say that it surprises me that more people cannot vote in favour of our proposal No. 4 because they're not sure what it's going to cost. It actually means that you stand here and say that we have a working environment around Norwegian schools that are very poor, but at the moment that we are going to establish a law, we say that it costs so much that we dare not. And we can't say that. We have to believe and believe that we have a working environment around Norwegian schools that is so that if we set up schemes, work environment regulations, for the physical working environment, for the psychosocial working environment, for students' rights, participation and all of this, then this should not cost much money, because the starting point is that the working environment is good. If it's not, we have to do something about it, and then at least we have to pass a law, so that we can put those out there, able to do something about it. So I hope that the argument that we dare not adopt a work environment law because it costs too much is not passed on. At least we can't go out and tell students, nor can we tell students. Because it's pretty serious if we say it. So to the recommendations – I've got a lot. I am pleased that this is a good proposal and that it is good that someone makes proposals. Because what's the point of discussing and spending a lot of time on it if we're not going to mean anything and have concrete suggestions? In any case, I have understood it so that there are many who want to support proposal No. 1, but not as a decision. I am then prepared to turn this proposal into a transmission proposal. As regards proposal No: 2, I think it should be able to have a unanimous uproar. We're simply asking to get an overview of the amazing trials that are going on in Norwegian school, get it to us, so we get a debate about it, that we're being informed about it, and that we can participate and add further leads to the extent that we're going to get involved in it. I understand that there are many people who think that we should not interfere with it, but at least I want us to have a debate on it. As regards proposal No: 3, I understand that it may be problematic for someone, but we're going to put it forward to try to give a signal to the Government that some earrings we have to have if we're going to start processes that are important. I then maintain the proposals No. 2, 3 and 4 and want to vote over them. With regard to the other proposals, we want to vote in favour of the Inge Wage proposal on behalf of the Right if it is maintained. The proposal from the Left is a transmission proposal, which we also agree with. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party, we do not support them, precisely because this is a relationship between big business and government or department, and it is laid down in the law, and that is where it should lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e165	After being here all day, it is tempting to draw a story about the cabbage worm that got iron corsets, and thus went upright on two legs. I'll leave it. It is troubling to witness critically to the ability of the Workers' Party to self-suggest. I think of the defense of the state school and arguments that the economy should not be crucial to quality education. The whole private school, for which the Workers' Party itself formed a majority, is a testimony that freedom of choice and diversity must depend on the economy of the parents. It also depends on the choices available in a defined geographical area. This is the Labour Party's policy. Furthermore, it is said that you should go to the same school, have the same teachers, learn, read the same books, have gym. Should the children who, according to religious belief, cannot show their bodies, be forced to do so, to participate, to be together? I can't believe that this is respect for each other, learning to live together. And not least, how can coercion mean "teaching us to cooperate"? I see conflicts in many ways as a result of this common idea, but there is not one word from the Council of State on how conflicts should be prevented or managed, not one concrete proposal on how knowledge, understanding, personal integrity and social competence should be developed and built into this common idea. Mangfold is to allow originality, to realize that we are all born as originals and not as Community individuals, to allow different ideologies also in practice, to allow the existence of genuine freedom of choice, to allow the freedom of choice to be used without indulging in the purse. It is precisely the limitation of freedom of choice by using the economy as a means of pressurisation that policies have been adopted in the Workers' Party. This presented the representative Ranveig Frøiland in his post and reply, and now later in a 3-minute post. That the Progress Party and the Workers' Party disagree on private schools should not be a political bomb for anyone in this room. But I demand that the Council of State now begin to clarify its use of words, so that we can believe that he can be taken solemnly when he caress with verbal flowers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e181	Arne Lyngstad has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e184	First, I would like to say to the representative Reikvam that the concept of free schools is an old term that the Christian People's Party has also used in the past. I think this is a good and comprehensive description of the schools we're talking about, namely schools that are based on life views or alternative pedagogics. Otherwise, I would just like to continue my explanation of vote, which is based on that proposal No. 6, from Odd Einar Dørum, is for transmission, so that's very cool. We can support that. As regards proposal No: 7, from the right, we are waiting for what the Council of State will respond to, but we are in favour of the proposal, and if it is maintained, we will vote in favour of proposal No. 7, from Inge Wage and Right. As regards proposal No: 5, from the Advancement Party, I said in a previous line that the Christian People's Party places emphasis on good administration of the law according to its intentions. We believe that this proposal is very unpresiduous, and therefore want to vote against in order to maintain the quality assessment contained in today's law. I would also refer you to the explanation of vote by Odd Einar Dørum. As regards proposal No: 8, I think Odd Einar Dørum's explanation of vote that this is big business, was quite comprehensive, and the Christian People's Party will vote against it if it is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e197	With regard to our proposal to ask the Government to maintain an approval, it has a clear background. I would also like to refer to the article by the representative of the Christian People's Party, where she said that it is worrying that the Council of State is going across the majority of the Storting, and that he is almost asking to be put in place. I can agree to that. Then it only remains to take the consequences of one's own opinions, that is, the concrete action. This is not a question of big business, it is a question of the Storting to accept that the Storing's clear messages and decisions are to be overlooked by a State Council. If the Storting shows the right to set aside, this will be up to a majority, if any. But it is also possible that we can get a parallel to another case, namely to the question of the Professional Injury Insurance Act and the question of the term ‘observed’. Here the Supreme Court relied on a practice based on a Document No. Eight proposals, promoted by the Progress Party, but voted down in this Chamber. It is likely that this time the judiciary will have to help the majority to implement the misinterpretation and practice. This is heavy, it's expensive, but unfortunately it seems necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e204	At the end of a long debate, let me say that I am pleased with the broad consensus that this debate has shown, in particular between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, on the development of Norwegian school. When it was said from the center here that it was not so much new – and it was really quite enjoyable – I would not sign that it was not so much new, but I would like to stress that it was a pleasure that we actually got together about so much. I can tell from Stortinget’s pulpit that I think my predecessors in many areas have done a good job. Many of the projects that were started are things that I am happy to continue, although of course I do not agree with all my predecessors. I think it can lay the foundation for good cooperation in Stortinget. Of course, there will be disagreements on some points, but this should be the case – we also need diversity in school policy, not just in school. So for the discussion around the private school law. Of course, as the State Council, I will follow up Stortinget's decision and Storting's view in relation to the private school law, and I will also follow up the private school law's intention that it should be possible to set up private schools. However, when reference is made to what the Stortinget treated before Christmas, it is also stated in the comments of the majority of the committee that they refer to the ministry in its overall assessment, among other things. may place emphasis on the consideration of the primary local government school. You also write that you ‘precises that the Ministry carries out an overall assessment prior to approval. There is sufficient authority to take decisions which take into account in a balanced manner all the circumstances surrounding the establishment of a private school.’» And that's the beauty helmet, the ability to make such an assessment, that I want to use. Just as my predecessor had to use his judgement in his assessment and change part of the practice in relation to his predecessor again, I also have the discretion that I want to use. It was said here that private schools are a supplement and only represent 1.8 pst. of the total school provision. Yeah, that's right. What I've been worried about is the strong growth, because then it's no longer just a supplement, then we're approaching a completely different school structure, and I'm strongly sceptical about that. It is not proposed to lay down a single private school on the part of this Council of State. We know that every year there are quite a number of public schools, so I'm not primarily concerned about the private school leavings, it's the public school I want to call around. I also want us to have a diversity, but I want that diversity to accommodate in public school. I have also seen that the special representative of Tingelstad in the media has expressed the same concern as I am about the closure of schools. Finally, I would like to say to the representative of Wage on the position of the Berg Committee that I will aim to bring it forward to the Stortinget so that it can be implemented from the school year 2001/2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e222	After hearing some of the explanations of vote of the previous government parties on proposals No. 5 and No 8, on the approval of private schools under the Private School Act, I find reason to congratulate the Council of State Trond Giske on having achieved through this debate and these voting rights the passive approval of the majority of the Storting, including the three former government parties, to do exactly what he himself now said in his intervention, namely to transform the practice of the previous Council of State, and to use the discretion underlying the practice of approving private schools, in the same way as the previous Council of State, Lilletun, changed the practice of his predecessor, as the Council of State Giske stated it. In other words, the change of government we have now witnessed leads to a new practice in dealing with applications under the private school law. That's something that's of course perfectly right. When a large number of people are passively witnessing, a government council hears that he wants to change a practice, without giving any other notice to the Council of State through voting, the Council of State is on a safe basis. I show you, among other things, to the explanation of vote by Odd Einar Dørum, where he said that he provided that a Council of State does not change a practice, because it could be difficult and cause problems. Now the Council of State Giske has said that he has changed the practice of the former Council of State, and he can do so for as long as Mr. The doorroom and the Center Party and the Christian People's Party will not vote for a proposal and take a decision that inculcates practice. A practice can only be derived from specific cases, because it is a judgement to be exercised on each case, as the Council of State said. But the Gishe Council has already shown that he has come to a different discretionary conclusion for one named school than the former Lilletun Council. In addition, it comes up in the Storting, and our proposal to instruct the Council of State by decision to maintain the old practice is if the explanations of vote are kept down, and then there is every reason to congratulate the Council of State for having received the majority's blessing of changing a practice, even though some in this majority say that they are doing something else. There are voting rights that are crucial in this room. I think it's sad, I had hoped and thought that the three former government parties would stand on their policies when it comes to the relationship with private schools, but I just have to note that based on the explanations of vote that have come, it has already been given after and approved de facto that the Council of State Giske is going to follow a completely different practice, which he also announced in one of his first Council interviews.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e231	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e234	I thank the Council of State for the answer on the follow-up to the Berg Committee. I note that it is a majority in the Grand Duchy that supports the content of the Right's proposal, but the Council of State's response is satisfactory to us. I assume that he will then present the matter so that it can be adopted by this enlargement and with effect from the school year 2001-2002, and on that basis I think it is entirely right to transform the proposal for a transmission proposal. To the matter of the discretionary exercise of the Council of State, I fundamentally disagree with the understanding of this by the representative Hagen. The majority took a clear decision in December 1999, and that decision was taken to reject a concrete proposal from the Workers' Party in accordance with the criteria now stated by the Council of State that he would base his discretion. That is to say, the Stortinget has expressly rejected such an understanding of the private school law. That is why I find it quite unreasonable to interpret the situation in the way that the representative Hagen did. The matter was resolved by Stortinget as late as December last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e244	: A little explanation from the Right of what has not been commented on so far. In the case of the two proposals from the Progress Party, the Right will vote against them with the foundation given by the Mid-Parties and now extended by the Representative for Wages. In the case of proposal No: 7, it has already been converted into a transmission proposal, and proposal No. 6 is by nature a transmission proposal. When it comes to the proposals of the representative, Mr Rikvam, we are very pleased that proposal No. 1 was converted into a transmission proposal. If it had not been done, we would have voted against it, but that matter is now settled. In the case of proposals No. 2 and 3, we can support them. We also want to support proposal No. 4, and thus notes that there will be a majority in this important case of legislating work environment characteristics for elephants and students. I hope that others too can join in, so that we can get a broad majority for this important decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e257	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e260	Of course, as all representatives, the representative Hagen has the freedom to express his view, but in interpreting the position of the Left, the Left manages it itself. On behalf of the Left, I have the clear view, as the representative Wohnning also stated, that the Stortinget rejected the judgement definition presented by the Workers' Party in December. The size then, by an unusually clear majority comment, has defined the margin of discretion. When that's the situation, from this day forward, we will follow the use of discretion by the Council of State, and we have a number of tools, in substance, to express how discretion is to be dealt with when we see practice. That's the way we're going to go about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e267	Ursula Evje has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e271	It is with great regret that I am listening to the ability and ability of the various parties to expound the fact that they do not accept that decisions taken in this Chamber are more binding than majority observations. Now, in fact, there is only one rigid, costly and long way in the judiciary to see if the Supreme Court is dealing with the interpretation of the case-law, legislation and legislation that the Supreme Court has previously shown. This we could have saved schools, parents and children because by making decisions based on what we have said before, we really believe, and not waver back and forth as if it were a world championship in big bangs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e278	Ranveig Frøiland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e281	I asked SVs Rolf Rikvam to make both proposal No. 2 and proposal No. 3 to be sent. He didn't. I urge the Labour Party to vote in favour of proposal 2. But we are responsible for the government, and we are responsible for a government budget to be submitted, and fundamental reasons make us vote against proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox There'll be enough money for that in the budget for next year, but I thought it was totally unthinkable to vote for it from the Stortinge's side. I ask the Labour Party's representatives to vote against that proposal. I am pleased that Inge Wohnning has turned his proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e290	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3160]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e306	This case has a long history. The question of different schemes to improve the situation of high school students has been examined several times. In particular, two types of action have been investigated. One is a loan scheme for textbooks, and the other is a grant scheme that enables students to buy the textbooks they need for teaching themselves. Whenever the issue of lending arrangements has been assessed by experts, the conclusion has been unequivocally negative each time. There are some different reasons for that. One of the serious reasons is that such a system will be very demanding to administer and will have very large administrative costs. The places where a message has been made, including: in West Agder states some years ago, the conclusion has also been unequivocally negative. There is no reasonable relationship between the administrative costs and the dividends of such a scheme. The other objections raised, both from the bookseller’s side and from the publisher’s side, relate to the conditions of Norwegian textbook production and the freedom to choose between alternative textbook offers. So far, it is not clear what the rules of this lending scheme should look like, and no answer has been given to a whole range of practical questions that arise, including: who will decide which textbooks to buy. Should the school owner, the county school authorities, or should it be done by the individual school, or should it be left to the individual teacher to choose from the different textbooks available in the different disciplines? Depending on the response to this, once the Ministry has made legislation for the scheme, it will be possible to imagine an effect of such a system that makes Norwegian textbook production even more difficult than it already is. In fact, we are in the situation that I mentioned earlier in Stortinget, that the publishers who are to be responsible for producing good textbook offers are in a rather stressful situation, among other things. because the top-level textbook offer at Norwegian school, university and university level is increasingly being pressured by international competition, how large international, English-speaking publishers will be able to compete in Norwegian textbook production relatively easily. It is the same publishers who are going to live by offering textbooks at secondary level and at primary level. Last autumn the Stortinget decided to grant 100 million. kr for this purpose. When the Right voted against, it was because we do not consider it right to prioritise the objective as high within the overall school budget as the majority decision requires. But we take note that the Storting has granted this money for the purpose. Then my question is, how can you get the most money back? My hope is that the Council of State is willing to assess other ways of spending the money, which less allows money to go up in complicated administrative arrangements, and which can be more beneficial to those students who have the greatest need to get help to cover the cost of educational material in high school. The question is whether some or all of the box grants would be preferable to both the use of the funds for the primary purpose and to remedy the potential adverse effects on Norwegian textbook production of this reform. Let me also point out that the problems that will relate to a lending scheme for textbooks are so great that there must be reason for all parties, both the professional bodies involved, the Storting as the granting authority and the Government as the executive authority of the budget decision of the Storting, to think about once again before launching a scheme that can have as many unfortunate effects as a loan scheme. I have noticed that several times after he joined as Minister of Education, the Council of State has gone out and sold this budget decision from last year under the heading: Free textbooks in high school. It's at best a upresis headline. What people will associate with such a heading is not a lending arrangement where the books are to be circulated repeatedly without a specified time limit for how long they are to be in circulation. What people will associate with a promise of free textbooks is, of course, something quite different. Although the amount is far too small to cover a full scholarship of the textbook purpose for all students, it would be far more striking, in my opinion, to call such a grant scheme for free textbooks than a loan scheme, which the Council of State is working on. There is a good mountain-wet rule among many good mountain-wet rules that say that there is no shame in turning around. Now I know that the government council as a former AUF leader has had this as a flagship for very many years, but I haven't actually registered that there are very many outside the AUF who believe that this is the answer to the challenges you're facing. Until last autumn's budget agreement, none of the centre parties thought this was the answer. Every time the scheme has been investigated in the past, the previous government parties have also agreed with the Right that this is the worst of the tools available if you want to do something about the textbook situation for students and parents in high school. It is my hope that the Council of State is willing to assess the practical approach and the practical use of the 100 million. kr granted by the Stortinget on the current year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e327	I will be relatively brief, not only because the committee will have dinner later this evening, but also because I feel that this is a counterbalance to what happened during the budgetary procedure last December. The lending system for textbooks has been adopted by the Stortinget in the budgetary procedure for 1999-2000. I do not intend to have that decision reviewed. On the contrary, I want to work for the loan scheme to be expanded so that it can apply to all students. As I also mentioned in the educational policy statement, I want to work for a common school. The lending scheme is one of many instruments to achieve this. The representative, Inge Wohnung, suggests several possible negative aspects of the lending scheme in his interpellation. There are no indications that the scheme should lead to a deterioration in educational quality. On the contrary, I hope that the lending system will also help to raise awareness of the role of the textbook in learning, and that the textbook and educational material offer will be far more diverse and varied in the future. I would like to make it clear that, in addition to the aim of the lending scheme to reduce students' spending on textbooks, it is also set up to provide a pedagogical profit. The lending scheme, together with the other centralised actions in higher education, aims to improve the quality of training, particularly in relation to active student participation, differentiation and use of various learning tools such as tools and factual resources in learning. In my opinion, new technology will have a greater impact on the educational media market and the design of learning material than the lending system. I would not call a more diverse educational offer a limping, but a enrichment for the schools. The question of whether the funds should also benefit disadvantaged pupils or families reflects the same points of view as those promoted by the Right and the Advance Party in the budgetary procedure. The implementation of the Decision will be based on the principles of the single school, with the same offer for all pupils. I therefore want to avoid the need-testing system and special arrangements for pupils from economically disadvantaged homes. I will, of course, follow closely in this work. Should it prove that the plan does not have the intended effect, I will look into whether improvements are required. But I hope one day we'll get to the goal, that's free schoolbooks for everyone in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e346	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but not too much more than that he gave an answer, because the content was not very much to be encouraged by. It is difficult for me to see how the Council of State can make it possible for a lending scheme, administered by the school owners — the county council — to help create greater diversity than before in the selection of textbooks. I almost have to ask the Council of State for help in getting the logic to jump. How does he feel that this will contribute to greater diversity, both in the production of textbooks and in the choice of textbooks? Now, the Council of State said nothing about how the guidelines in the department are going to look — too much depends on what those guidelines are going to look like. And I would like to point out that it seems to me to be in the past if one is to expect that from the beginning of the school year until the harvest, the school owners will be able to put in place a demanding new system, when, at this point, at the end of the spring semester, they have not yet received any clarity from the ministry as to what the scheme should look like, and how the scheme should be practised. I find it very difficult to understand that the school owners, in this case the county councils, will have a particularly good basis for taking the necessary measures to implement such a far-reaching and demanding reform administratively, when they have not been clearly informed by the ministry at the moment about what the scheme should look like. It's not right that this interpellation is meant to be an invitation to change. I have clearly recorded that the decision taken during the budgetary procedure last autumn is pending, but that decision is not a detailed decision on how to use the funds. And I want to keep in mind that it's and is going to be fundamental to call a start on a loan scheme, which could only cover a very limited part of the school book offer to some of the high school students, for a reform that ensures free school books. Now the council said, and that's the only point where I ever saw such a little hope, that he's of course set up, if it turns out that the system has the opposite effects of what he described, to revise it. My point, which I thought the Council of State also had the sense, was that it is not necessary to make the losses before correcting, sometimes it is better to be led was.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e359	The last thing I can do in my whole heart. I sometimes have when we're dealing with issues, the feeling that we might have to put down an investigation commission before we start implementing decisions, instead of waiting until we've exceeded the budget and made all the losses. In this case, however, I am not so concerned about it. I think it's an unsustainable situation that parents and students need to spend thousands of dollars on buying new books every year, when you could often have the same books as the rivers used the previous year. When I say that this will lead to a greater diversity, I think it will trigger the use of other teaching materials as well. I think it will lead to greater diversity in school, and that is also what is in the curriculum, that it should be the curriculum that governs, not the textbook. The Representative for Wages and salaries is asking for guidance. I can inform the representative that the guidelines for the use of the 100 million. kr that the Stortinget has granted to books in secondary school, because the longest has been sent to the school owners – to the county municipality. There we have assumed that the students in VK I and VK II should be given priority. Priority should also be given to books in common general subjects, because they will reach the maximum possible number of pupils, and ensure that both vocational and general school pupils will benefit from them. The reason we have chosen to give priority to VK I and VK II students is that the scheme will benefit as much as possible. If we had started with it on a basic course, we would have had two coals that had not benefited from the scheme. If we start high up in the high schools, the students kind of grow into the scheme, and thus get more benefit from it. Our objective is to give priority to long-term books, and also to maximise the savings for students in terms of costs. That way, I think we'll get a fairer school. We are getting closer to the goal of equal rights to education for all, and that is what underlies this proposal. And this case, as the representative for the payroll correctly said, has been a matter for the undersigned for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e375	The fact that the Right Party is opposed to school reforms is a well-known matter, but with respect to reporting, I was a little surprised when I read the interpellation that we are discussing today. There is no limit to how much is wrong that money has now been allocated to the purchase of educational material in high school. I'm a little surprised, but I can't really get up here. Now it's actually the way it's finally become a majority in the Stortinget for the public to take responsibility for both books and other teaching materials even in high school. The 100 million. kr on which the Workers' Party was awarded the Centre Parties last autumn is not just a means of purchasing books; it is actually the start of a teacher's reform in secondary school. After all, it must be much more interesting to discuss how we are going to implement this reform than to spend time and energy crying over lost blows. So it's a good thing that the interpellation of Inge Wage comes before Rolf Requam's interpellation, because then we can make it clear that this is adopted, and that this is the majority for. When we're done with that, we can take the interpellation that comes after, and discuss how we're going to put this up to achieve the goal of a better school. Then we believe that free access to exciting textbooks, both through loan schemes, upgrading school libraries and the use of other types of educational material such as the Internet, CD-ROM and film are part of the measures that need to be taken. In the debate on the educational policy presentation, more people were at risk of commercialisation in school. I believe that in itself there is an independent argument for the purchase of school books and other teaching materials, just to avoid advertising in school books and other ways of sponsoring educational material. If, instead of a loan scheme where books can be borrowed for three to four years, we were going to go in for a school box grant that might cover 1/4 or 1/3 of the expenses that students have each year, we wouldn't be able to counter this commercialization in the same effective way. That is why this is an educational tool reform that is important, and therefore I hope that we can now put behind the debate on whether we should have a focus on learning materials, and instead stand together on the commitment that this is going to be for higher education in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e388	The Council of State, with a clear address to the Party of Advancement and the Right, said a reversal of the budgetary procedure from last autumn. Large parts of the revised budget, as well as the repeal of decisions, are quite correctly a major political rematch that has been undertaken by the government of which the Council of State is a member. But hopefully we will come back to that more strongly in the debate in June. The Representative for Wage has explained many of the issues that should be noted, but the impact on the public itself was not affected. The Education Act has incorporated a free principle, but the exception was textbooks in secondary school. What's worth asking questions about then is: What about students' spending on other types of learning material, for example: the raw materials needed for the training and for which payments are being made today – shall they also be covered by grant schemes, believe? Or don't they go under the free principle? Furthermore, this is about expanding the library areas of each school, extending the number of employees to manage the scheme, distributing books, repairing etc. No decision has been made on the circulation time for the use of books, etc. So the representative of Konglevoll says that these poor hundred million dollars of a cost of nearly a billion is the start of an educational reform. What in the world's country and kingdom does that mean? Should a tenth of the real cost be the start of a reform? Well, you might say that it is, but I'm going to ask the Council of State to explain how this start can be anything but a start, and how he intends to fully finance this now and in the future in terms of land expansion, the number of employees, circulation time, etc. Not least, I want him to think a little bit about the raw materials, like the students per. today also has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e399	The Christian People's Party had primarily wanted a grant model over a loan scheme. However, we chose to join a lending mechanism in order to adopt a budget for the year 2000. Now that I have heard the Council of State report on the implementation, I have to admit that I was somewhat surprised. I would think it would have been best to start with a basic course in preference to upper secondary courses I and II so that all students in a year's school would benefit. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party has been concerned that once the scheme is there, all secondary education students will be part of the scheme. This is in line with the Workers' Party's argument about an educational reform for a free secondary school. That is why the scheme should also include pupils in primary schools. I therefore assume that the Council of State can confirm that this will happen. If not, we have to consider coming back in an appropriate way. The Christian People's Party does not see this as a reform of better quality in high school. We actually see it as a welfare reform. The Christian People's Party wants to give priority to the quality measures in the years ahead, and then I know about many good purposes that should be implemented rather than welfare measures. Finally, I would like to point out that the teenage families are now actually getting a better economy by providing child welfare for 16 and 17-year-olds from May this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e410	I'll be very quick. We would have preferred to have a different system for school books in high school from what was agreed in the agreement last autumn. I've said that before. We want a school boxing fee as the student organisations want it. But once we've reached an agreement, we'll be on it. I agree with the Right that the money could have been spent in a better way. But some pills have to tolerate swallowing, and the Workers' Party has tolerated the cash support, so we can tolerate the loan scheme. Finally, I just want to say that I am surprised at the government's choice of priority student groups. He's talking about a fair school. I can't see that it's fair that someone arranges a loan arrangement for VK I. That's all right, but what about VK II? There are very few students in VK II vocational — they are mostly apprentices, they have avoided the apprenticeship and they almost do not need schoolbooks. I had therefore really expected, when this is such a big case for the Workers' Party and for the Council of State, that they had implemented, as I wish, a fair start to the arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e417	The course of the inter-pelling debate shows what I assumed, namely that there is a majority in the Stortinget that believes that a lending scheme for textbooks is not the best answer. It is probably also a majority who believe that this is not the right answer at all to the challenge, and I note that with satisfaction. I think that the representative Lyngstad hit the nail on his head when he characterized the agreement he made on this point last year, on the one hand as a necessity to get through a budget at all – and I respect that, of course – and, on the other hand, as not a school and education reform, but a welfare reform. I think it hits the nail exactly on my head. It will be important for me to clarify how, after this debate, the Council of State clearly shows that the premise of the majority that adopted the budget decision last year is broken and partly directly in conflict with each other, sees this as the beginning of a strong escalation of the same system. There is certainly nothing to suggest that, provided that the Council of State returns in the draft budget for the autumn with a proposal for a strong escalation along the same lines, there will be a majority in the Stortingen for it. It also argues that this so-called educational reform can be quite similar to Venus from Milo – a statue that is going to stand without a lot of body parts. I wish the Council of State took over the political reality of this and was already willing to revise something on the lending system. Finally, it is right that the representative, Mr Evje, points out that this government in the draft revised national budget has gone back on a number of issues on which budgetary settlements were made last year. You have e.g. decided to cut a total of 10 million. on a very intrusive transition reform within universities and colleges, the majority of the appropriations allocated to the Councils of Churches have been taken quite happily, without any justification other than the budgetary situation. Then it seems a bit pathetic to me that you're busy at peaceing a 100-million-dollar grant. kr, when it is known that the majority of the population does not even have a common view of the rationale for the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e429	Both in the autumn of 1997 and in the autumn of 1998 the Workers' Party proposed the first step in a free lending scheme for school books in secondary schools. At that time we did not receive support from parties other than SV in the storeroom, despite the fact that many times during the election campaign in 1997, representatives, especially from the centre parties, who were strong supporters of either a loan scheme or a grant scheme, met. In the autumn of 1999, we finally managed to get a consensus, the centre parties fortunately became with us on what Lyngstad characterises as a welfare reform, but which I also believe is a school reform. And just to have said it, the fact that it's a welfare reform, it doesn't make it more admirable to go against it, as the Right does. It's okay that they think there's a bad school reform, but if they admit that there's a good welfare reform, there should be a reason to go for it, not to go against it. But the Right Story, taking into account, of course, there's a certain consistency in going against if there's a welfare reform. We've created some guidelines for how it should be. This is in line with the debate in Stortinget. Of course, other government councils from other parties might have made different guidelines, but my goal was to reach the maximum number of students, to get the most out of it, and to save as much money as possible on it, and to bet on books that have a certain duration. That's why we prioritised VK I and VK II for, as I said in my previous post, reaching as many students as possible, that it wasn't in a way that reform often becomes, that it's a yearly coal that kind of gets the positive every year, but that it should also benefit the most of those who were already in school today. I cannot entirely agree with Mr Tinkelstad's argument that it would be unfair for professionals because they do not have so many textbooks. The fact that professionals don't spend thousands of dollars on books doesn't make it less fair to give free schoolbooks to those who actually spend thousands of dollars on textbooks. In that case, what we should have looked at in relation to professionals is those who have large equipment costs. I think that is rather a relevant issue in relation to VK II professionals, at least in some subjects, but VK II students in general schools should also have the possibility of free schoolbooks. What happens in the budget for next year, I'm not going to stand here and neither promise nor speculate. That's what we'll see when the budget is presented. My goal is at least to continue stepping up free school books, so that one day we can give the fair welfare reform, and in my view also the school reform, a good future, so that everyone can get equal rights to education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e440	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e454	I recognize that both the Storting and the Council of State have limited opportunities to influence what kind of textbooks we are going to have. As long as it is a market for the kind of textbooks that make up the most important part today, it is the textbooks authors and publishers who will determine the content of textbooks. Today's type of textbooks have a long tradition in school. 30 years ago, the textbook that eliminated the teacher with all his or her weaknesses was also the teaching ideal. The teacher got the role of applying transparency, clicking on the button to get the band to play and asking the students to open the textbook on a specific page. The teacher - safe textbook was a good textbook 30 years ago. Fortunately, today we are going in the opposite direction. Teaching book addiction results in the curriculum, which should be the leading educational document, being digested by a textbook writer and not by the teacher. The reception of educational ideas should and should be done at the level of education, and that is why it is to the level that teachers must go to in order to plan and evaluate what is going on in the class. If we don't end up with alien practitioners of other people's plans. In addition, there is reason to recall that the principles of the new curriculum are that it is the curriculums to determine the contents of the lessons and the sessions at school, not the textbooks. The follow-up to Reform 94 shows that one is short on content reform in secondary schools. There is also no reason to believe that the situation is significantly different in primary school, especially in early school. We've got the structural changes in place. The students are largely satisfied with their first wish. They carry out the training within the reference period of three to four years, and there are ever enough apprenticeships for the vast majority of courses. Researchers point to two areas that hamper the wide-ranging change of content foreseen in the curricula. Firstly, it is the assessment system. The exams and grades largely control the learning work in the classroom and in the workshop. Secondly, the traditional textbook becomes a sleep cushion and is the governing force for the work. It is practical for teachers because it usually covers the entire curriculum. It gives a sense of security, because once you've worked through a textbook, you know that the curriculum is covered, the goals set in the curriculum have been passed. It is this security that easily inhibits both creativity and reflection in relation to the objectives of the curriculum. The traditional textbook will also hamper the use of new and other teaching materials. Strong developments in technology and technology have increased access to other sources of information. There is also reason to recall that in the general part of the curriculum, textbooks are mentioned only once and then in combination with other teaching materials. In other areas of the curriculum, the term ‘teaching materials’ is used mostly. Educational materials are used for everything used in a learning situation that is meaningful in itself. Educational materials include texts, software, sound, images and textbooks produced to meet specific training objectives, but also materials that were originally intended for other purposes, such as: newspaper articles, feature films and beauty literature. The ideal in the curricula is no longer the teacher with the textbook under his arm, but the teacher with the trolley, the teacher who marks the diversity of teaching materials. Then why do we get hung up in the old roles? Why is it a resurrection if one in a trade lacks textbooks for school start-ups? I often have the impression that it's a crisis if the textbook hasn't arrived, so that the students and the teachers don't have it at school. The ideal would have been that there were no textbooks at the beginning of the school year. Then the teachers, together with the students, would have had to sit down with the curriculum to agree on the objectives of the subject, how to find the relevant teaching material and how to put up with the teaching materials available and how to use them. I would venture the claim that the traditional textbook, together with the assessment and examination system, is the biggest obstacle to achieving the necessary content reform. I often wonder that teachers who call for greater educational freedom for each school and individual teacher are not equally critical of the role of the textbook. It is not the curriculum, although it is laid down in the regulations, that governs the training, but the fact that teachers allow a textbook writer to interpret the different plans. My hope is that the new technology will make the traditional textbook superfluous. This will facilitate access to supplementary training material. I think this can produce a new type of books from the publishers because it will no longer be the market for the curriculum-wide textbook. Finally, a small call to the new learning centre when they get started: a proper and thorough debate on new learning materials must be high on their agenda. Initiating a discussion among teachers and other interested people in the school on the place of the textbook should be a good starting point for doing something with the traditional textbook.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e475	I agree with the Rikvam's description that the textbooks are still the most important basis when teachers plan and make instructional arrangements. I also agree that in many cases the textbooks could have been designed to stimulate increased student participation. The general theme of the curriculum is as follows: ‘Active intermediaries need good help. Teacher books and other teaching materials are essential for the quality of teaching. They must therefore be designed and used in accordance with the principles of the national curriculum.» There are two important areas of higher education which the representative of Rikham concerns, one is the quality of the textbooks, the other is the quality of the training. What we know is that in classes and groups where real student participation is practised, and where the curriculum objectives are the starting point for students' participation in the planning, implementation and evaluation of learning work, the textbooks are widely used as tools and to obtain facts. In other words, it is well possible to use today's textbooks with other teaching materials, as required by the law, regulation and curriculum. That being said, I would also like to express that the textbooks can of course be better and different. It will always be interesting to focus on working methods at school and on the roles and responsibilities of teachers and students. The launch of a debate that may have an impact on educational use and educational development in the future, as the representative Rikvam now does, is very commendable. If the recognition system is now suspended, there is a further indication that the curricula governing the training are not the textbooks. Attention is paid to the fact that school books are one of several educational tools to be used in learning. With increased access to and use of electronic means, freedom of choice will increase over the years to come. That choice is primarily part of the teacher's professional responsibility, but it is also desirable that both students and parents take part in the work. One assembly has adopted a test scheme that says that the students themselves have the right to choose a course of study. When students in a class or group can participate in this way, it could have positive educational implications. The previous government took the initiative to launch a project on the choice, assessment and quality development of textbooks and other teaching materials in primary and secondary education. I'll follow up on that. The project will start in a short time and will take place as a systematic, research-based knowledge acquisition. I believe this can contribute to increased knowledge and awareness of quality criteria and procedures in the development, selection and use of learning materials. In the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the previous government – as we were in the previous interpellation debate – 100 million were set aside. kr to a lending scheme for higher education textbooks. In addition to a significant reduction in the cost of textbooks for pupils, it is foreseen that teachers and students are made aware of the role of the textbook in the learning work. It is my hope that, among other things, these measures will result in a more diverse choice of learning material. This, in turn, could lead to the development of other types of teaching material by textbook publishers and textbook writers. Thematic textbooks, as I see it, will be a natural part of such diversity. The new learning centre will also have tasks related to the increased use of new and other learning materials by schools. However, I am convinced that it is more than changing the textbooks to make active student participation part of the school's everyday life. We have to keep on betting on a wider front than that. As part of that work, a three-year project entitled ‘Difference and organisation in secondary education’ is under way. The aim is to contribute to the widest possible adaptation of training to the individual student's needs and assumptions. In this and a number of other centralised actions, the aim is to improve the quality of training, in particular related to differentiation, active student participation and the use of various educational tools such as tools and factual resources in learning. In addition, the Ministry and the Student Organisation are planning a joint conference on student participation and influence. The conference proposes to motivate and train students, teachers, school leaders and school owners to exploit and use the space for action provided by frameworks and regulations. As the representative of Rikham understands, I am very concerned to further develop the quality of higher education, also by stimulating the conscious use of teaching materials, where textbooks are one of several types of learning material. The syllabus shall always be the driving force for the training.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e504	I thank you for your answer. I'm also very happy about that, I think it was a good answer, which opens up too many exciting challenges in the future. The fact that the Ministry is prepared to launch different projects to increase student participation in school seems to me to be important, and we're going to stick to that. There are several things that are relevant in terms of increasing student participation. One goes to the formal governing bodies of the school. It is important that students have greater influence within these structures and this system. But what is the biggest challenge – and I also understood the Council of State that it is what he is most concerned about – is to ensure increased participation in what is going on in each class, in each workshop, that the students are involved in the planning process itself, in the implementation of the learning work, and not least in the assessment of the learning work. I look forward to the exciting projects that will then be launched. If we take the debate that we had a little while ago, the rematch on this 100-million-dollar appropriation. kr, I hope and believe that such a lending scheme will in many ways be fatal to the traditional textbook. I think it'll have a problem with survival, at least in today's form and in today's way, by a loan arrangement. So even if I initially want a scholarship, I see that a loan scheme can be an important tool to crack today's textbook, so that's how it works. I wish we could give a strong signal from the Stortinget to those who work with textbooks, those who write textbooks, those who publish textbooks, that the kind of textbooks we've had in Norway, where the textbook covers the entire curriculum from a to a to, we don't want to, and that we want publishers and writers to spend more time and effort developing new types of textbooks, thematic textbooks, other teaching materials, etc. Then I'm sure we could go a little further with both the democratization of what's going to happen in the classroom and in the workshop, and increasing the commitment of the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e515	I don't think there's so much disagreement between the interpellant and the Council of State in this matter. When the interpellant says that there would almost be an advantage if the textbooks were never ready for school start, it might be going a little far. But the awareness that it's the curriculum and the content that's going to be governing, the awareness that it's the students who are going to participate in the planning of the teaching, and the awareness that it's the objectives of the teaching and not the textbook that's the governing tool, I fully share. How and how fast we manage to get to such a development and continue the development that is already going on, I can't say here and now, but at least I will do my utmost to develop and help make it come true. Technological developments, of course, provide enormous opportunities to obtain information, both factual information, contexts and differing views on different issues, which perhaps no generation has ever experienced before. And if you look at how young people handle data and information technology, the Internet, many adults have to be closer to being ashamed of the knowledge that young people have about the use of such technology. If we can facilitate the active use of that technology in school life, it will provide enormous opportunities to achieve exactly what the interpellant is concerned about. So I think this is going to be a very good development for the school. It will underline and facilitate that the general part of the curriculum can become a reality, that we should develop the creative, the independent, the critical human being capable of obtaining different information and views, critically evaluate them and treat them in his own learning. So I think this debate is just the beginning of a very important and comprehensive process to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e524	There is no doubt that the textbook is an important tool in developing quality training. The textbook should, of course, be a central tool in teaching. When it comes to Reform 94, the intention behind the content reform was that one should get away from the textbook-driven teaching. Nevertheless, we still feel that the textbook is the most important basis for many teachers to prepare their training plans. Such schemes do not stimulate just creativity, neither professional nor pedagogical. That's why there's an important question in the interpellant. Local conditions vary from part of the country to part of the country. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that, if part of the training is intended to adapt to local conditions, it will also require the use of other books and teaching material. You might want to use lexicons, newspapers, fiction, building books, the Internet, CD-ROMs, videos, etc. When it comes to the use of the Internet, at NTNU in Trondheim, ALLFORSK did an interesting research on assignments from the National Educational Centre. This study found that many teachers are still negative or insecure when it comes to using the Internet in the classrooms. Only 10 pst. by teachers, the integration of new computer technologies into the training process has been successfully completed. The study shows that teachers are behind the students, both in terms of access to the PC and the Internet and in terms of interest and ability to use the new media. More than half of the students in the ninth grade are now using the Internet in their schoolwork, and about 80 pst. of these think that this is for good help. But for the sake of order, the textbook is still in its infancy. Almost every elephant uses books when they do homework. This study has been carried out among 1,800 teachers and 3,000 elephants throughout Norway, so that it is particularly extensive and should give a good picture of the situation. The ball's foremost task is to take care of wit, wonder, creative action and thought. We're going to teach our children how to cope with learning in so many different arenas. Education in schools is a pre-arrangement for participation in working and social life. The changes and new technologies that students meet before they meet the school portal, make greater demands on knowledge of breadth and depth, greater demands on quality in learning, teamwork and self-employment. As future workers, all will meet the IT revolution and, in a working situation, they will need a high level of autonomy and cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e539	The interpellant has an important focus in the school debate here, by asking just what is used for teaching materials and how they are used. Teacher books have a central role, perhaps too centrally many times. Teacher books themselves are not mandatory, but only a tool, and schools do not use books slavely without surveys of the different types in which they are, after all, to choose. Only the curricula are defined by the Department. The form and division of the substance into booklets or books is up to the authors, and through the sale of the books, it will be possible to determine whether the books meet educational objectives. One must not forget the wide variation in skills and motivation among students, and therefore the Bondevik government wanted to suspend the admission system for textbooks and to have a less rigid system. Just then the focus is pushed from the fact that it is the textbook that is the curriculum, to the fact that it is the curriculum. Substances can also be obtained from different sources today, but not all teachers are equally safe to choose from the textbook. In 1998, the Ministry initiated research on educational texts, also referred to by the Council of State. The University of Westfold just got the node function for this. As a former textbook student, I would like to say a little bit about this. Work is in progress and project funding for the year 2000 has now been allocated. Researchers are meeting just today to follow up on this. Some of the projects will assess teaching materials in Norwegian, mathematics and pedagogics for 6-year-olds, others will assess textbooks for the KRL subject. One project addresses how ideological content in the natural sciences is perceived by authors and students, and otherwise there is an assessment of textbooks and other teaching materials in the field of art and cultural history and of the choice of textbooks by Norwegian teachers. It is a broad range of projects in which the Association of Authors and Publishers cooperates with the National Educational Centre and the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. The University of Vestfold has the overall responsibility and the day-to-day management. The mandate given is for the project to contribute to increased knowledge and awareness of the choice, assessment, use and quality development of textbooks and other primary and secondary educational materials. When this is a three-year research project funded by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research with 1 million. kr per. years, I expect that both the Council of State and interpellantly follow these projects closely. When new media such as data and the Internet provide new conditions for the textbook and when the recognition system for textbooks fails, we are in a different situation than before in relation to the choice of textual material and the choice of pedagogical method. Then I am also sure that we will have a stronger student participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e548	I'm not going to pull this out any longer, but after listening to Elsa Scarbøvik, I get a strong feeling that it's good not to have been in government, because then one has not so much to defend and tell about how good it really is, and how far one has come – because it's been used as an argument every time in relation to what I've brought up today. In the general education debate, it was also argued that things are going on, we don't have to make any decisions, the world is really good, mostly. We're doing what I want. That's good, and I'm glad. I hope that we will get a development like both the Council of State and now the representative Scarbøvik also briefed us on how far the previous government had come. I agree with those who say that the time has come to remove the authorisation system. So I agree, to the extent, with the legislative amendment that is now in the committee. I don't think that's going to change dramatically what I'm concerned about, the traditional textbook, which is written on the basis of a curriculum that the ministry and others have established. At least I believe that it is desirable to wind up the scheme, because it has survived itself. So I sincerely hope that what's taken up is followed up, and that we get a development where the traditional textbook gets less space. I would like to have textbooks at school – for all. They're not the ones I'm looking for. But what I'm looking for is the traditional textbook that makes sense to cover the entire curriculum and thus becomes a sleep cushion for the teachers and does not invite the students to participate in the planning of the teaching or training in the class.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e557	I will also not contribute to doing this debate any longer, especially taking into account that I am the last speaker. It just remains to be said that I think there is a relatively broad consensus on what is the goal of the curriculum, namely to develop alternative learning materials. There were probably many who drew a sigh of relief when the representative Reikvam made it clear that he was not in principle opposed to the textbook, but that he wanted other textbooks and a development of the textbook as a tool. I think that from that point of view, we have a good basis for continuing to work on what is our common goal. I guess it's just to wish the committee a good dinner; it starts in 10 minutes, far away from here, so I'm glad the debate is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e566	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e578	The level of taxation related in particular to diesel taxes has been very much in the light of the Storting’s decision on the 2000 budget on an increase in diesel taxes by 20 øre, an increase that was in addition to the increase in prices. In addition, we received 1 penny in increased CO2 tax and 25 cents in temporary sulphur tax – a total of 46 kroner. Document No The 8-proposal we are dealing with here has a number of proposals for changes in diesel taxes and principles related to this. The proposal is in four points. The majority, all except the Advance Party and the representative of Bastesen, reject the proposal. However, – in the name of justice – the proposal has led to concrete clarifications of the conditions relating to the actual level of charges in 2000. I assume that the minority themselves is commenting on its proposal. The issues raised by the industry and a number of municipalities relate to the difference in charges compared to our neighbouring countries and the problems that significant changes in the framework conditions create for a highly competitive industry. Furthermore, there is a sharp response to the extra cost of increased transport costs, not least for business. Higher charges also increase the gain by cheating. So to the setting. Flexible taxes to go up and down linked to the market price of fuel, break with a number of principles, principles that the right hand thing has incorporated into its comments, and which I also give my support. My brief comments will therefore be linked to the real increase in fees. The 25-eye associated with sulphur content has not become real. In other words, the intention to phase out high-sulphur diesel was already a reality from 1 January 2000. Overview of the supplied volume of diesel in January shows that there was a negligible element of unwanted high-sulphur diesel. 120 million. litres were delivered in that month as environmental diesel. Gradually this diesel with sulphur below 50 p.m. will be the quality of all pumps. However, if the desired power is to be achieved, the pumps must be labelled as soon as possible. Those filling diesel must be sure that the quality they purchase is in line with that which must be present in order to introduce further cleaning measures. It is urgent to have particulate filters on diesel vehicle emissions in place. These depend on environmental diesel. Now we can assume that nearly all autodiesel will have lower sulphur content than 50 p.p.m. in 2001, this should also become the legal maximum limit for diesel. On the first occasion, the Government should make such proposals. We have come into the situation that our position was given at a time when we can assume that the proposal available to the revised national budget had already been put into print. But although we attach such a desire to the revised national budget, I assume that the Government will come back with concrete clarifications in relation to the budget for the autumn. Then back to the fee level. With this treatment, we can see that the claimed 46 ears in the fee increase have been reduced to 21 cents. When we can then show that the Labour Party government is now proposing to reduce the diesel tax by a further 20 cents from 1 July, we are down to the fee level per year. 31 December 1999. And when we get so far that we're going to deal with the revised national budget, I'm going to assume that's a reality. This means that when we do not adjust prices in the current year, we get a real reduction in the diesel tax for the first time on what I can register. The treatment here we will come back to in June. However, we can already see that the principle that our diesel taxes must also be seen in relation to the level of taxes charged by neighbouring countries has been put into practice, and I believe that for most people in the United Kingdom this is a correct assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e601	I understand that the representative from the Labour Party would like to talk about the sulphur and the 25-eye, but that is not really what this proposal is all about. It's about a problem that's much bigger than the details. It is true that Norway has some natural disadvantages in relation to most other European countries, such as long distances both within and to markets in Europe, poor roads and many ferry routes. This in itself gives Norwegian companies far higher transport costs than companies they compete with on the continent. And when we have also managed to introduce diesel taxes in Norway that are at the very top of Europe, we give our export industries a real handicap compared to our competitors and make it impossible for them to compete on equal terms. We will not be able to remove the distance disadvantages for Norwegian businesses, but it is possible to significantly reduce them. By reducing the Norwegian level of charges to the minimum EU rate, we will be able to offset some of the difference in costs, but yet Norwegian companies will have several times the average transport costs for Europe. The high level of taxation also creates different competitive conditions for enterprises that mainly produce for the domestic market, particularly affecting the rural economy, with longer distances to markets and poorer roads, leading to increased diesel consumption. This could not be good district policy, and it is not without reason that the Financial Committee has received a clean flood of enquiries about the diesel tax from district municipalities, county municipalities and enterprises located in the districts. It should at least take those parties that say they're concerned with district policy seriously. When the majority in the vote indicates that the diesel tax, among other things: I would just like to say that it is of course a political issue, but in the name of justice, the value creation that the transport industry is responsible for should also be included in the calculation. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 2 and 3 in the setting. Proposal No. 1 I'm not taking up, because it's hard to implement at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e621	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e624	The right, as you know, was opposed to increasing the diesel tax in the course of the budgetary procedure in the autumn of 1999. The increase was adopted against the votes of the Right and the Progressive Party. The increase of 21 øre and the general charge, together with the introduction of an environmental tax of 25 øre on sulphur-containing diesel, gave rise to massive resistance from businesses, carriers, district municipalities, counties and political parties. In the revised national budget, the government has taken the consequences of the many protests and proposes to lower the diesel tax by 20 cents. Norway is a long-distance country, which leads to a high transport demand, and it is far from the markets in Europe. This leads to high fuel consumption and high transport costs. Taxes and charges are an important part of the economic framework conditions for the transport industry, which is highly competitive. After the United Kingdom, Norway has the highest level of charges in Europe. The new sulphur tax has been effective in providing largely only low-sulfur diesel, but this has led to an increase in the price of diesel to the consumer without any significant environmental impact. The air quality is improved only when so-called particulate filters are installed on the cars. In the right-hand view, normal charges must be reduced when environmental taxes are introduced. Environmental taxes must be motivating to change people's behaviour, not to get more money from the country. A goal of our charging policy must be to harmonise our charges with our neighbouring countries, which have much lower charges than Norway. A main reason for the fuel charges is that users are to be burdened with the costs they incur to society. According to a TØI report, freight transport does not cover the socio-economic costs. However, it is noted that the estimates are uncertain. Norway cannot resort to such a charging policy as long as our neighbouring countries do not. Or, that is, social costs are higher in Norway than they are, for example. in Sweden? The right will come back to tax reductions in relation to the budget for the harvest. A reduction in the level of charges to the minimum EU level will have consequences that cannot be seen isolated from the overall budgetary policy. Proposal IV, which involves a flexible charging system, is not in line with traditional charging principles in market economy thinking. Such a system would result in an increase in the levy in the event of a fall in the oil price. The right considers that a rather appropriate approach should be taken to tax reductions lasting longer than the next oil price drop, and the right would therefore not vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e639	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3161]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e653	The aim of the proposal is to remove obstacles to the transfer of pension schemes from one insurance company to another. The majority of the Committee agrees with the rapporteurs on the desire to remove obstacles to competition. We have therefore recommended to the Ministry of the National Budget or by other appropriate means in the autumn of 2000 to provide an assessment of the competitive situation in the market for municipal occupational pension insurance and an assessment of the need for action. The Committee recommends that the proposal be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e660	As the proposer, I will only be allowed to comment briefly on the adjustment and say that I think it is positive that you now have a review for the autumn, not least because you are currently in the middle of the tariff settlement. A review will be made when the collective bargaining agreement is available after the negotiations and, if it still contains the obstacles to competition pointed out by the Competition Surveillance Authority, measures will be brought back. I would also like to stress that the vote shows that there is a majority of all parties, except the Workers' Party, who clearly believe that the intentions of the proposal should be respected, and I hope that the Minister of Finance will also put his heart at heart, whose situation should be such that we still have a collective agreement that creates such obstacles to competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e667	What proposers use in Document No. 8:38 is that free competition in the case of the transfer of municipal service pension schemes is not functioning satisfactorily, and it is also mentioned in the document that it is closely related to a legislative regulation prohibiting such anti-competitive elements of the main tariff agreements. Now it's the way it's referred to in Document No. 8, that there is a law that regulates this, the Insurance Act of 10 June 1988. I don't see any direct need for a change in the law on this, but it will make sure that things come back to Stortinget, as the majority here asks. I also think it is worth noting NOU 1986:5, which is also referred to in the document, which was the basis of § 7-8 of the Insurance Act. Because there's one of them who's also very busy with the authority for such transfers. And that's in my view kind of the core of what's going to be a struggle. For it is simply not a question of the right and the possibility of transfer, but of the conditions under which such transfers are to be made in order to ensure the addition of a qualitatively good insurance product. Secondly, the Competition Authority assesses whether the rules of the Main Tariff Agreement are in conformity with competition law and has concluded that this is covered by the Competition Act. Thirdly, the Ministry of Labour and Administration has reduced a selection to go through this and, in the light of the reactions of the Competition Authority on the basis of this selection, it is right and proper that we ask the Ministry to come back with an assessment of the competitive situation during the year. Now one of the plural comments is not the Workers' Party and SV. That's why I have to go a little bit into the contentious questions in the Master Tariff Agreement. The subject matter of the dispute is the role of the credit supervision, whether it is possible under the rules of the main tariff agreements for the credit supervision to grant some form of prior authorisation for transfers. There is no doubt that the intention that the parties to the agreement have had to do so is, of course, to ensure the quality of the insurance product before any transfer, to ensure that the products which one would offer to the municipalities meet the requirements of the board of directors for tariffs, premiums and other financial arrangements. I can't see that there was any desire here to restrict competition, but the aim was to ensure that the products that competed kept their goals. It also turned out that it took a couple of years before the Credit Authority approved two of these products, and that consequently there was a need for them. Nor do I find it unimaginable that employees are at least engaged in having pension schemes that are gender-neutral and that do not appear to be offensive to older workers. I say this in full knowledge that the credit supervision now says that one should not have any prior approval of such agreements, but some form of reporting obligation, so that one can subsequently enter into them. I also say in full that it is not the purpose of an agreement on its own that is covered by the competition law, but the effect of it. But I think there's reason to stress, at least for our subject, that we're not in any way against competition for service pension schemes, but it should be a competition where the players compete on equal terms with the equivalent product. Then I think we should be careful to rock by the parties' possibilities to ensure that competition is conducted with an equivalent product. It is on the basis of the membership of this so-called transfer contract that one can satisfy the requirements of the board of directors of the financial corporations or insurance companies which are to participate in the competition here. The aim must be that companies deliver a product that both meets their public authority requirements and ensures the benefits that the parties to the agreement may have. Then we get a real competition between the companies. But I expect that the department in its assessment will include all of these conditions when one comes back to the Stortinget in the fall. At all, there are so many complicating elements here that the Storting should have a sense if something should be done and, if necessary, what, we need to get this thing back to its full width.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e688	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3162]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e702	Proposalers will have decisions on the level of petrol charges that our neighbouring countries have, and would also like to be linked to average taxes in Europe combined with the flexible level of charges throughout the year for balancing fluctuations in the market price of petrol. The majority, the Working Party and the Centre Parties, reject this. The right also goes against its premises. Norwegian taxes and taxes are based on the common consumption Stortinget gives priority. Automatic in relation to what other countries have on a separate charge, or automatic in compensation for high market prices with reduced tax revenue, is unacceptable to the majority. That we too would have a more costly and bureaucratic system supports this. With these brief comments, the majority are opposed to the proposal that has been put forward here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e713	Many people think of it as a paradox that the oil country of Norway has Europe's highest petrol prices. We can read in today's newspapers that Statoil now takes 10.70 kroner a liter for 95 octane. There is no law of nature that it should be so. There's a decision here in the Storting that's why for every penny we pay for petrol, 76 cents goes into the state treasury, more than in any other country in Europe. This naturally creates problems for many people. 92 pst. of all Norwegian families have cars, and for families with three or more children the proportion is even higher, up to 97 pst. When the car density is so high, it shows that most people believe that it is absolutely necessary to have a car to meet their daily transport needs. The collective offer is not and will never be, except perhaps in the largest cities, good enough to meet the family's transport needs in terms of work, leisure and social life. This case concerns fuel taxes, but they cannot, of course, be seen in isolation, because they are only part of the cost of owning and using a car. The problem in Norway is that we are not only in the top of the world in terms of fuel taxes, but that we are in the middle of the world in relation to all the other taxes we have linked to the car. It is the sum of all these charges that have led to average households with cars now spending as much on cars as on housing, i.e. approx. 60,000 kroner a year. The majority believe that the petrol tax intends to price the external costs related to road use, accidents and environmental disadvantages. Almost 80 pst. passenger transport in Norway takes place by passenger car. Without this transport, Norwegian industry would stop. This external ‘income’ should, of course, be included in the accounts in the same way as the diesel tax. But even without this income, the accounts are probably already in the favor of the drivers. When we now propose both lower charges and a flexible charging system, it is primarily in the interests of consumers. Such a flexible system would ensure stable petrol prices and would facilitate economic pressure not least for families with children who use the car the most. When the Ministry of Finance has previously argued for higher fuel charges to compensate for reduced revenues due to low oil prices, it should be logical to reduce charges now when the crude oil price is high. An additional bonus for such a scheme would also reduce the pressure on prices, in other words lower inflation. Finally, I would like to address the minority suggestions included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e728	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e731	The right agrees that petrol taxes in Norway are too high. That is why we also proposed a reduction in the fees in the 2000 budget. Furthermore, the right agrees that the objective must be to harmonise our taxes as far as possible with our neighbouring countries. However, the argument that the socio-economic costs should be covered by the charges is essentially omitted from the TØI report. Even with the uncertain estimates made, these are fully covered. This in itself indicates that charges are too high. In any case, everyone outside the metropolitan areas pays too high charges. However, I would like to point out that the majority in this Chamber, which most often focuses on the disadvantages of transport, and not on all the positive effects of transport on individuals, on families, on housing in the districts, on getting closer to the workplace, etc. Good communications have clear benefits. Bad collective offers cannot compensate for this. As in Case No. 5 has Right-wing objections to the introduction of a flexible fuel charging system. Such an economical cost is simply a bad idea. This is a system far from market economy thinking. The right is of the opinion that a charging system to ensure that the selling price does not change as a result of changes in the oil price would be a step in the undesirable direction. The right is of the sense that charges need to be reduced, but tax reductions must last longer than the next oil price drop. Otherwise, the right will come back to the fuel taxes related to the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e740	It would actually be interesting to hear the Minister of Finance's reason why we should not, at least in the current situation, have reduced the fuel tax. I have listened to both Prime Minister Stoltenberg and Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen in many different contexts, where they say: now it is about doing to limit the cost growth. They've talked about that we have to try to get a stable, low inflation. They actually talked from time to time, even before they came into government, about having predictability and stability. So it happens – partly with Norway’s help, not very possibly, but a little – that we get an increase in the oil price internationally. We also get – and Norway has nothing to do with this matter – an increase in the dollar rate. These two factors mean that the oil price in Norwegian kroner rises relatively much, and so much so that there have been reports in the media that it has at least meant 1 pst. higher inflation in Norway, which the Government says it prefers not to have. So it's also that higher inflation is something that the central bank places on it for the sake of long-term economic stability. And inflationary pressure was one of the main reasons why the central bank a while ago increased interest rates. Another main objective of the Government is to try to avoid interest rate increases. So the question is, why is the government just sitting passive and looking at it? The government has every opportunity to do something, because it is a majority with the Progress Party in the Stortinget. We are in the very unique situation, in which no other country is in, that the result of an increase in the price of oil in Norwegian kroner has two effects on the Norwegian economy. In other countries, it has largely only one effect, namely higher oil prices for its consumers and industry. However, it has a different effect in Norway, namely increased income to the country. The increased revenue of the State is dramatically much higher than that needed to finance a reduction in petrol taxes, so that consumers can relate to the price they were quoted or to the price they were previously quoted. So the majority won't do anything about it. I still have good reason to hear a single reasonable reason for that. One of the reasons that have been used not to reduce the petrol charge, for example. Now, before the wage settlement, it is like not having to deal with this with the PPP assessment, and that reducing the fees would actually lead to an increase in purchasing power, which would result in an increase in pressure on the economy, cost growth, etc. – there is no one who has ever explained why this should be linked at all, but there is another thing – but it is also wrong. After all, the state budget for the year 2000 raised some inflation. In the same way as one had assumptions about what it was expected that wages would be paid, one had inflation expectations that were related to the purchasing power development that was planned. So it's external circumstances, with increased oil prices in dollars and increased dollar rates, that change this, so that increased petrol prices for consumers reduce the planned purchasing power. And when we in the Progress Party propose a compensatory measure that reduced the rate of petrol to just keep what inflation was supposed to be, and the purchasing power was supposed to be, then suddenly the government's spokesmen, including the finance minister, as if it was actually increasing purchasing power. That's not an increase in purchasing power. We wanted to maintain the purchasing power that was planned in the Norwegian domestic economy, because we can do that. It should have been interesting if the Minister of Finance could say why this is the case – as Per Erik Monsen also asked – that a few times, when the oil price has fallen, among other things. has shown this when you have increased the petrol tax. It has been shown then that one should not have a slip in the financial economy, and that now the purchasing power has become better than calculated, so it is necessary to withdraw purchasing power for the sake of what was in the budget. And then you increase the fee. But when it's the other way around, you don't lower it. I can of course see that if there was a situation with very, very, very low oil prices, and we have said that in our flexible system we will have a relatively stable price between NOK 6.50 and NOK 7, someone might say that then there will be such a high price in Norway versus other countries. We have no faith in that, and the developments around have shown that a stable petrol price of NOK 6.50-7, which we want, would have been just beneficial. It had not led to any negative things for the Norwegian community. It would have been stable, it would have been predictable. The competition had made sure that no one would be able to leave the farm with any extraordinary cakes, if anyone were to come to that idea. So it's obviously just beneficial. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: why is it that the Norwegian people, as drivers and purchasers of goods, where transport costs are an integral part of the costs, should not have any advantage that when the oil price rises, the billions are going into the treasury? Why are they just going to be punished in terms of having to pay more for petrol and diesel themselves? I feel more and more when we are discussing this very topic, and so far other things that have to do with the budget, and this about getting huge extraordinary revenues that result in narrowing the Norwegian economy, that there must be some sort of elite in the King's Council who have been exposed to some tailors who have managed to instill them, and trying to instill in the Norwegian people, that if we reduce taxes and thereby reduce prices and costs in Norway, it will in some way lead to cost pressures and inflationary pressures. This is just like "Keierna's new clothes". So many people have learned this sentence that Schjøtt-Pedersen has also learned, that if we reduce the fees so that the prices automatically drop once, that in the second, third row would mean the opposite. And at the moment, the government is dealing with a reduction in the fuel, diesel and electricity charges equivalent to – let's say – a couple of billion dollars, which would only have a positive impact on purchasing power, as if you had actually increased the transfer to agriculture by the corresponding amount. An increase in a cost and a reduction in a charge should have the same effect on the economy. It would have been very interesting if the Minister of Finance could say why the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian Government cannot reduce the fuel tax, so that we get a stable, predictable petrol price of SEK 6.50-7, from which the Norwegian people and Norwegian society would only benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e757	I am probably the first finance minister in a very long time who can tell the representative Hagen that we have actually reduced a fuel tax. The diesel tax is, as you know, proposed to be reduced in the revised budget. This has never happened before since the diesel tax was introduced in 1993. And that is a positive contribution for the transport industry, for District Norway and for those who drive. The representative then asks for a reasonable justification. I'll try to give it to you. The basic question is: why is the representative Hagen concerned about reducing the fuel charge? Yes, of course, because those who buy fuel will have more to walk with; they will be left with more money in the wallet. And if they're left with more money in the wallet, that's the important reason why they have an increased purchasing power. And an increased purchasing power has no value if they don't use this purchasing power. If they use the increased purchasing power, there will be increased demand and there will be an increase in demand in a market that is already relatively full, there will be an increase in price increases. So here's a little bit like the dog and tail, but I think we can agree relatively quickly that also reduced fees contribute to a more expansive policy, just as increased fees contribute to a tightening of the economy. Then the representative Hagen is quite right in saying that there are two sets of effects here because the reduction in fees itself also has a price effect – quite correctly. But it is that changes in the charging system also affect the governance of the economy and affect whether a budget works expansively or contractually. If you were to follow the proposal of the Advance Party, it would mean that when the Norwegian State gets less money from the Oil Fund, it would lead to an automatic tightening of the economy. If the international oil price goes down, and Norway is getting less money on the oil fund, yes, the fuel tax would be set up, which seems to be intrusive to the economy. The reasoning behind Hagen is strictly that there will be less money on the oil fund, so the activity of the economy will be tightened, and there will be more money on the oil fund, so the activity of the economy will be slowed down by a more expansive policy as international oil prices rise, and that the level of charges can then be reduced. So I want to ask the question, is it also relevant to use this in other areas? Is it so that if it rains a lot, and it affects the price of power to reduce it, would the electricity charge be set up to balance the fluctuations in the electricity supply price? That had to be a natural consequence of that, sir. Hagen here suggests. If we were to have stability in relation to different charges, we would have to assess whether this would be the case in other areas as well. Then it would be that if the power price was reduced, the electricity charge had to be set up in order for us to have an evenness in relation to the price of the supply of electricity. I have little faith in – and I find that a majority in Stortinget has little faith in – that kind of fine-tuning mechanics. Not least, I think it is important to bear in mind that fuel taxes are an important source of revenue for the budget and an important part of financial policy. This means that the type of income source in the budget is difficult to use as a traction game in relation to varying international price flows, and rather must have a degree of stability over it. Then I will give the representative Hagen right in one thing: it is true that we have relatively high fuel charges in Norway. The Labour Party Government has actually proposed to reduce the diesel tax two months after accession. I can also inform the representative Hagen that, in connection with the budget for the autumn, we are going to go through all the fees. We will then assess both the petrol tax and the diesel tax in relation to the overall charging scheme and as part of the total package that has been notified of taxes, where both excise duties and VAT are included. It was an attempt at a reasonable rationale.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e776	It'll show up if it lasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e779	I guess that didn't make much sense in it at my discretion. When I heard the Minister of Finance, I thought of ‘Juksemaker piperort – take it back and give it away’. For in the fall, when the State budget was adopted by the Workers' Party and the Centre, the levy was set on diesel. So all of a sudden, over a few months, you've come up with a better idea, and then you put it down again. If you're very kind, you might say that this is a zero game. But you stand on this platform and try to pretend that this is the first time you have a real reduction in the diesel price in Norway, or the petrol price for that matter, but that's not true. If you stretch it as far as you can, it might be a zero game, but even I think I'm stretching it a little bit too far. I also recorded that the Minister of Finance’s comments on increased purchasing power and pressure in the economy, etc. said that, of course, it would lead to increased demand in a full market. What market? What part of the market is it that is full? It's one of the debates we're going to come back to later -- how the money works in the economy, what parts of the economy it's under pressure, and what parts of the economy it's not under pressure. And it's obvious that it's easy for a finance minister to stand here just talking about a market that you know is significantly complex, where some parts are under pressure, while other parts are not at all there and have a lot of free capacity. So I think it became a slight line of argument, and I could imagine challenging the finance minister in what market he refers to. It's strange that when you talk about fuel taxes, it's based on an oil price that's not set by a market. It is a price set by a cartel of oil-producing countries, OPEC, which sets oil price developments. It is the oil-producing countries that jointly govern the fixing of the oil price. In other words, it is not a well-functioning market that guarantees us the right oil price at all times. Then it becomes even more paradoxical that we, which is one of these oil producing countries, can only argue that diesel or fuel taxes are, in general, an important source of income for the country. The drivers are an important source of revenue for the state, we have registered it, but there must be limits to how long a suction tube you should have in your pockets at any time, which depends on the car as a means of transport to get there. I believe that the argument relating to reductions in fuel taxes should be somewhat more nuanced than what was heard from the Minister of Finance now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e788	The President will state that the opening quote can hardly be considered to be in line with parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e791	I agree with the President, but it wasn't quite so uneven anyway. The finance minister said that if we reduced the petrol tax, which we have suggested earlier when the oil price has risen, there would be more money among people, which would increase demand. In that context, it won't. That's what's famous here, that in the government's national budget, this plan economic document, where you try to fine-tune the Norwegian economy, which you'll never do, and which there are only a few people on top of this elite who are coming along with at all, you put in a prerequisite for inflation in 2000. The dollar price and the oil price were included, and they were calculated, among other things. out what our oil revenues would be based on, the assumption of the dollar price and the oil price. And that's the same guy that put in for inflation. Then something happens that is partly beyond our control, which changes these very important parameters, namely the purchasing power development of most people, who actually have something to do with wage fixing, even though the Minister of Finance has not fully understood it – the assumptions change by radically increasing the oil price in relation to the assumptions made by the Government. And what we're saying is that we can correct for it to the Norwegian community so that we keep what the government had planned for 2000. We can keep the inflation where it was supposed to be. We can maintain the premise for the purchasing power development that led to the moderate wage settlement, because we get financial freedom because we get increased revenue from the dollar price increase and the oil price development to keep what the government itself had planned. Then there will be no more money among people. But it's going to be no less than what the government itself had foreseen, that's what's the famous thing here. The government had assumed that people would pay so and so much for gasoline. And we say that this reduction of fees would not have led to people getting more, but they had kept what was the starting point for the government then and the Workers' Party – simply ensuring that inflation did not go beyond what the Workers' Party and government parties had at that time founded. The remarkable thing is that when you can do something about it, you sit passive and let it go up, and then you get the result in terms of the moderation line coming under pressure. So when the Minister of Finance says that these are important parts of fiscal policy, I would say that it is our proposal that maintains what is fiscal policy, because fiscal policy does not just go right on the balance sheet of the government budget, it goes on inflation, purchasing power expectations and interest rate expectations. We are the ones who want to maintain it, then one cannot use such a argument as the Minister of Finance did. So finally, this using this in other areas. There are no other areas where an increase or decrease in the price of a product affects both customers and users outside the Norwegian community and state funds. If it rains or not rains, it may affect the power production, or the capacity at least. But it has no direct effect on the treasury. I am aware that the Minister of Finance would like it to be so that if it rained a lot, it would automatically count into the Treasury, but it does not. There are no other areas where there is such a dual function that an increase in the price or reduction in the price in Norwegian kroner on oil directly affects both the treasury and the Norwegian community. In no other area is this the case, either in the power sector, in the alcohol sector or in others — the chocolate tax sector, I see that Dalheim has begun to talk about it. There are no other sectors that have exactly the connection that the oil price in Norwegian kroner has. It's sad that the Minister of Finance doesn't see the opportunities that our financial freedom actually gives us to be able to rule this country better. So I just want to remind you of something in the end – it's so nice to see in old newspaper clippings and stuff. I've found some old newspaper clips, I think they're ten years old or maybe even more. It was the time when the Workers' Party cried out that we had to get a more expansive fiscal policy to improve the employment situation, we had to get more activity in the economy, because there was so much unemployment. Yes, there were actually heavy banners at the Youngstorget where it said: 80,000 unemployed. Willoch has to go. We have to go down to 30,000 unemployed. And then you had to have an expansive economic policy. Last week's AKU survey shows that we now have 91,000 unemployed, and the Minister of Finance of the Workers' Party is talking about the fact that now we have to tighten up even more, because there is so much pressure and activity in the economy. It's a fantastic change that's happened in the Workers' Party. And I can only conclude that the Workers' Party, with good support of the LO, will now use unemployment as an instrument of economic policy to reduce costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e803	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3162]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e817	The proposers will have a differentiation of the annual fee on the motor vehicle according to the length of the annual registration of the vehicle. The majority rejects this. I would assume that the minority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right and the representative of Bastisen, themselves comment on their position in later articles. Just some views from me in relation to the setting. The system we have includes approx. 2 million vehicles. According to the Department, the system is well-functioning and has low administrative costs. The system we have now worked since 1978, when we had a more costly system until then, like the proposers want to go back to. I also point out that the current system was softened somewhat in connection with the 1999 budget by the fact that there is now an opportunity to apply for a refund of half the fee for vehicles delivered for wreckage between 15 March and 1 July. I am also shown that there are, of course, differences related to, for example, whether a vehicle is registered in the second half of the year, then that is half the fee. Thus, in its present form, the annual tax is a purely fiscal charge, i.e. it shall give money in the treasury to part of the appropriations decided by the Grand Duchy. The majority therefore opposes the unnecessary use of these revenues in bureaucracy. The proposal is rejected. With this, we have made three proposals relating to adjustments in fees, adjustments that could reduce the state's proceeds. – I’m doing a nice summer field.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e830	I'm sure a working party politician will be okay when there are a number of proposals to do something that is beneficial to people and not necessarily just for the benefit of the state treasury. We have recorded separately that all these proposals have been tried and rejected – they have also been – by a tax-free increase. Making a differentiated annual charge on motor vehicles is actually introducing a charging system that works according to how much the car or vehicle is going on the road, how much it is used. And that's in and of itself quite fair. Take, for example, motorcycles, which may be on the road three to four months a year, but where you still have to pay a fee for an entire year at a time. It is strange to record the department's response to this. They argue first that the annual tax is a purely fiscal charge, i.e. that the revenue from the levy is not earmarked for special purposes but is simply entered in the treasury. And you refer to past arrangements that were very bureaucratic and heavy, and now you have found a system that is very easy to deal with. Yes, for all intents and purposes, we agree that systems should be simple to deal with. However, if it is the case today that for vehicles that are not registered at the beginning of the year, but are registered after 1 July of the same year, half-yearly taxes can be paid, and that is what this simple system manages to do, then one should actually also be able to deal with the proposal that the Progress Party, the Right and the representative Bastesen are now behind. I think it's strange that among the majority of people in this room, you're not willing to contribute to that kind of simplification. At least I take up the proposal on behalf of the minority – and record with some courage that this is also being voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e843	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3162]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e859	Today’s Business Tuesday, May 16, we read the following comment: «There has almost been an slogan on Stortinget: increased expenditure in one area is to be covered in crowns in another area. It may be politically meaningful, but economically pointless.’ Continued — and refer to the Minister of Finance: ‘Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen also succeeded: he chose to cut the aid budget a little in order to achieve the correct budgetary balance.’ – without deviating from the different consequences of one krona used abroad, compared with one krona used in Norway. And today's business continues, wisely: "What is scoring is that the crown-for-krone layout does not meet professional objectives. A heads is not equal to any other heads in budgetary terms. Appropriations for road investment have employment effects other than cash support and purchases of equipment from the rest of the world into the health sector. The majority and the government do not take such petty considerations into account. For this reason, every harvest following the presentation of the national budget and the state budget, there is a discussion that sometimes has no meaning whatsoever. The same is repeated after the presentation of the revised national budget on spring. Does it have to be that way?’ No, it can't! And that's one of the reasons why we've promoted this proposal: to get a meaningful and nuanced fiscal debate on what the impact of different uses of money is on the Norwegian economy. In fact, this is the case today in the political and economic debate: it is marked by a sad undisturbedness in the ability to distinguish between money spent domestically and money spent abroad. It is almost even more expensive when you read the letter that the Ministry of Finance has written on the occasion of the case. The Minister of Finance refers to the process and the macroeconomic calculations that are obviously carried out in the ministry, but that the Stortinget never sees. When the Financial Committee and the Storting start working on the budget, if it writes to the Council of State: ‘At this stage of the budgetary procedure, transparency indicates that a reduction in the level of ambition is necessary in order to identify effects on the level of activity and instead allow all items of income and expenditure to be ‘counted equally’.’» He goes on to write: «This procedure ensures that – public expenditure must be financed.» And then it comes even more expensive: ‘–...the real political priorities could be disrupted if, in budgetary discussions, different items of expenditure were to be ‘weighted’.’ Writing it to a finance committee and a big deal that is deeply involved in a budgetary process and trying to contribute to a responsible budgetary procedure, I really think I'm going to go a little bit down on the Storting's ability to distinguish between money spent here and money spent there. I would like to hear the Minister of Finance's reasons why Stortinget should not be able to make that kind of balances, in a major economic and political debate. But some have obviously let themselves be led by the tailors of the Ministry of Finance. So it shouldn't be part of the political debate to discuss how the money works on the economy. In fact, one krone used abroad does not have the same effect as one krone used in Norway. Nor is it the case that one krone used for investments has the same effect as one krone used for operation. And it's not like one penny used in the economy where there's free capacity has the same effect as one penny used in the economy where there's burst capacity. And that part of the debate we'll never have, because it's the calculations that the Ministry of Finance doesn't want the Stortinge to have as the basis for its budget discussions. Other countries differ; other countries have a clear and clear discussion in these areas, also because they have to. They're in a completely different situation than Norway, which is in a very unique situation that has enough money, but a lot of social misery. And then, from the majority of the committee, you try to create the impression that this could disrupt the debate on real money use because they can prioritise the use of money abroad rather than money in Norway. No, they could be able to get a proper estimate and a proper balance of how the heads work in the economy. But here everything has to have the same fiscal impact, and effectively helps to prevent sensible use of money and a nuanced debate. And it is possible that the department's analyses are coherent and macroeconomic. That's possible. But what basis do you provide for the Storting to take a decision on this? You don't get it. And why shouldn't you be able to nuance the leadership of the state budget in a sensible way? Why shouldn't you be able to do that? I see that there is evidence that aid money, for example. are calculated by someone to have the effect that approx. 40 pst. actually has an impact on the Norwegian economy. Yes, a new analysis has now come to suggest the exact opposite. But if that were true that 40 pst. of the aid money actually affects the Norwegian economy, it still means that 60 pst. of them don't. Why don't we get that tool when we make budgets, so that we can really take those probes and those balances when we make the budget? Why can these considerations not be taken into account when, for example: chooses to invest in the purchase of equipment abroad to modernise hospitals so that we are more efficient and treated with more patients? It must also be a socio-economic gain. With regard to the use of money to purchase study places abroad or to purchase hospital operations abroad or to purchase care services abroad, why can we not calculate the impact it will have on the Norwegian economy? I don't understand that, and I think it helps to fool a very important debate that we should have. And I am a little disappointed with the majority of the Committee on Finance, who, on such an important issue and on such a well-worked proposal, are able to draw a few sentences out of their comments on this and completely reject the fact that this will help to make the fiscal debate more meaningful. I am delighted to hear the speeches of the other parties and their defence agencies as to why they do not want to participate in a more nuanced and comprehensive debate. Because we need, we need to be able to explain, not just have a debate that is about keeping tight and that the balance point is right there. We must also be able to have a debate, because we all agree on one thing: that we want to maintain a low and stable inflation. But then the question is, how do we do that? There aren't so many days since we had met with one industry that really has available capacity, which is ready to build roads, for example, but has no mission. There's permits, there's leave. And then you talk about this tightness and this sacred budget balance as if it had the same effect on the industry as on the blasted industry. And I am delighted to hear that comment, especially from the Minister of Finance, because I still have the benefit of hearing a clear and factual defence speech as to why we should maintain it. I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party, with the exception of II, because the revised national budget has already been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e914	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e917	I think it is clear from the Committee's position that the majority of people think of some form of supplementary budget, as proposed by the rapporteurs. I would particularly like to point out two main arguments that have to count a lot in the assessment of this presented. One is the danger of a prioritisation that is not inherently motivated by compulsion or desire, but by some kind of "automatics", given that it does not provide the same pressure in the Norwegian economy. The second and perhaps so important argument, as I see it, is that in relation to the money and currency markets, the assessments of financial policy that is constantly being pursued will be made on the basis of the real effects of the level of activity. Having said this, we need to be willing to have the shades that emerge from knowing that there are investments and expenditures that have a different impact on the pressure in the Norwegian economy. And I think that the basis of calculation used in the budget work has taken stock and will take care that public expenditure has a different impact on the domestic economy, and that these analyses can always improve in order to obtain the real impact of the budget. Then there is a question of to what extent the Financial Committee and we here in the Storting are going to have detailed knowledge of the effects of the individual items. We have the opportunity to do that by asking questions to the Ministry of Finance, so that we have the information we need. With this I refer to the recommendation from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e937	First, I would like to say that at least one positive thing has come out of this debate so far, and that is that it is revealed that there is cross-political acceptance in the Biggest because there is a link between what we use through the public sector and the pressure in the economy. Siv Jensen has also said that in his article. But what's going on is how different items of expenditure count in relation to the effects of the pressure. It is true that some public expenditure, and especially investment, contribute to less pressure than others. It has been used as an argument that what you tighten up in, for example: the aid budget has no impact on the Norwegian economy. In recent times, however, it has been shown by a report that it is actually 40 pst. of what is being used through the aid budget, also has domestic effects. And it's interesting to bring it with you. However, when it comes to counting equally in relation to the effects of the Norwegian economy, it must also be recognised that the macro-economic tool used by the Ministry of Finance, which is produced by some as the purest abrakadabra, already has been introduced and has been taken into account that different investments and operating costs count differently. It is true that if the public has extensive construction and investment work, it has a much stronger impact on domestic demand than, for example, it does. investments in hospital equipment. But that's the situation today. The point is that if one sums up the entire budget, which consists of different components with different effects, the sum is largely what is currently available in terms of budgetary indicators. It also appears that if you go to other countries, which then have a different assessment of this compared to the indicators, the sum will not be much different from what we have in Norway. I noticed that in the presentation of the revised national budget, the representative, Siv Jensen, said that there was a lot to take off when it came to public expenditure, and that the Progress Party would have a significant reduction in these. Of course, if the Progress Party wants a significant reduction in public expenditure, as they themselves propose in their alternative budgets, it is no problem to spend more on the areas that you want it to be, because it is then covered by spending cuts. I think that's actually a reasonable procedure in the future. I heard that the representative Jensen believed that the Minister of Finance, through his letter, “shut down” on the Stortinget – I looked at the President and understood that the expression was accepted. I also heard that Siv Jensen said that when we in the Financial Committee had made our comments on the proposals of the Advance Party, we had “dried” some of our sentences. I think we should deal with the debate on public investment in the future in the way we have done so far, namely that if we want to spend more on one area, we can find cover through cuts or reductions in other areas. That's what many of us think is actually possible through the annual priorities we set, and it's also the most sensible thing to extend. In fact, I believe that the main problem in the Norwegian economy today is that we have an explosive development in retail sales. We have an explosive trend in housing prices, we have a shortage of labour, and if for a period – which we are now in – we increase the temperature of the economy further, we will be able to have a strange inflation and weaken our competitiveness. Then we will be able to have both unemployment and weakened opportunities to take care of what is good in our welfare society. That's what's our challenge now. With regard to the large profits, it is worth recalling the tables currently in the revised national budget, which actually make available the fiscal and macroeconomic assessments used by the Ministry of Finance. It says that if we look at the present value of accumulated demands that we, as future pensioners, have in relation to popular security, that is. And what the state owes us as future pensioners, we'll see that it's $2,300 billion. We haven't set that off for another penny, except for the kerosene fund, which, perhaps in the luckiest case, will be a little over 300 billion kroner in the current year. When we then get the large pension payments, we will most likely, at least according to the revised national budget and the macro-economic analyses that the Minister of Finance has been so kind to share with us, have come in the situation that the number of pensioners has increased sharply, pension payments have increased sharply, and probably oil revenues have started to fall sharply at the same time. It is then possible not to have added to a level of expenditure that we cannot answer for. In any case, it may be good to have something in reserve to meet, not least, the large accumulated demands that we, as future pensioners, have in relation to the Norwegian pension system and the social security system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e956	The Heads of State or Government Schjøtt-Pedersen joins a fine tradition as Minister of Finance by emphasising the budgetary balance as the most important thing, and it is not intended to stem from the budgetary balance. But at the same time, there are obvious elements of reason in a reasoning that say that money spent on different parts of the economy has different effects. Let me give you an example: if you invest in a department store, a mall, it's a private crown invested in Norwegian economy. It has an impact on the economy. If you choose to invest in a kindergarten or a school, it probably has, from a macroeconomic estimate, the same effect. But for society as a whole, of course, it has quite different effects. There are questions about long-term or short-term thinking, questions about private and public consumption — that is the eternal discussion. Similarly, I think it is obvious to all relatively wise people that money spent abroad has a different impact on the economy than money spent in Norway. So the question is: is there any realism in creating a budget of Norwegian money granted over the state budget, or, if so, Norwegian citizens' use of money out there, which could make any sense in contributing to an economic debate? I think it's obvious that this element can be used. But there is no exact science in the economy, no more than there is an exact science in politics. When, on the one hand, we argue with the budget balance and say that the budget balance is sacred – the most important thing now in the revised national budget – we choose to withdraw 541 million. NOK, mainly used as u-help in other countries. Then you drag it into the Norwegian economy and you say that's what we're going to use on refugees in Norway, so 100 pst. consumed in Norway. It is clear that everyone sees that there is – in part at least – a ‘bleached’ calculation, it has more to do with psychology. And the psychology of the budget balance we saw very well last year, because we had exactly the same exercises here in the Storting both at the revised national budget and at the state budget last year – the budgetary balance was the only important thing. But when the national accounts were to be settled with pluses and minuses, it turned out that the Norwegian increase had granted more than NOK 10 billion. So 13 billion, if I don't remember completely wrong, we had over-consumption. Nevertheless, interest had fallen throughout the period, inflation had been kept in check, and unemployment had not increased. That means that there are elements of psychology here. And some, in my opinion, place too much emphasis on the elements of psychology, because there must also be an element of real policy or real economy in this. This means that Schjøtt-Pedersen joins a fine historical tradition, namely that the budgetary balance sheet is the most important. If I don't remember completely wrong, it was Thorbjørn Berntsen who once said about a former finance minister that it should be on his bata that he gave his life for the budget balance. If it's that important for Schjøtt-Pedersen, I shouldn't have said. So that's what's at my core point in the proposal, and that makes SV not want to support the proposal, even though we'll argue in the future that the economy used in the rest of the world and the home country has different effects, that I don't think it's possible to set up such an account with some kind of substance. The examples presented in Document No. The 8 proposal, money's spent out, some of it. To what extent they're used out there, it's completely impossible to have any education about. If you buy hospital equipment abroad, it is clear that before that hospital equipment can be installed in a Norwegian hospital, many Norwegian kroner have been consumed domestically. It is perhaps a Norwegian charterer who has carried it in, it is Norwegian companies who have transformed it into Norwegian standards, Norwegian instructions for use should be printed, etc. That's how I think it'll be with a lot of things. So the question is, are you going to include Norwegian consumption abroad in such an account? Clearly, if a pensioner in Norway chooses to spend his entire pension in Norway, there is a different demand effect in the Norwegian economy than if the pensioner lives in the South for six months and consumes his pension there. Is it to be involved in such a balance of payments? Foreign tourists who are on holiday in Norway and consume money in Norway who are not initially created in Norway are to be included as a minus in such an account? The point is, if you're going to go in that way and take each component of such an account, I think you're going to get bad. Because if we say we spend a lot of money out, some people spend money in Norway. What remains is not the economy. What remains, then, is politics. And the policy is as follows: Of course, the budgetary balance sheet with such a bottom-solid economy as we have in Norway should be respected and not missed, but that means that the balance sheet point in the economy is much more flexible – as all historical experience shows – than all finance ministers say. At the same time, it is also an experience that, as a very rich country, we have the opportunity to consume more money out, for example. in solidarity with others, or for that matter also to purchase hospital equipment. This means that it will be the SV's approach to this type of investment in the future, but we believe that an autonomous budget, as proposed by the proposers here, is not necessarily the right answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e977	It's nice to be able to blend into a historical tradition, as the representative pointed out. I also have to be allowed to show that it is not that the cost recovery that has occurred in the last few years has necessarily been ineffective. Thus, the cost pressure in Norway is higher than in the countries we compare with, and one of the reasons for this could be this cost recovery. As I have also stressed in letters to the Financial Committee, a number of objections may be raised to establishing a separate budget for the financing of purchases of goods and services from abroad. A practice of placing some items of expenditure on such a ‘foreign budget’ could obscure how economic policy is adapted to objectives of stable economic development. The priorities between different areas would be affected in an unfortunate way, and it would break with regard to overall budgeting. In Norway, at different times and under changing governments, considerable emphasis has been placed on overall budgeting. For example, it lies. also behind the construction of the State Petroleum Fund, stressing that the Fund must be an integral part of the budget. The same considerations should continue to be given decisive importance. This in itself gives heavy arguments against the establishment of a so-called ‘foreign budget’. In the Ministry of Finance, there is a long tradition that work on fiscal policy is based on macroeconomic analysis, based, inter alia, on macroeconomic analysis. on the widespread use of macro-economic models. In this analysis tool, it is not the case that all expenditure counts equally in terms of how they stimulate demand. Macroeconomic analysis takes into account the fact that different public expenditures – directly and indirectly – have a different impact on the domestic economy, as several speakers have also pointed out. Different expenditure components include, inter alia: different import content. Public investment in construction will, according to the analyst, give relatively strong impetus to domestic production and employment, while the purchase of equipment for current operation or investment will lead to more significant imports from the rest of the world. Changes in public employment directly affect the Norwegian labour market, while different types of transfers will have indirect effects on both imports and domestic production. In practice, most expenditure will affect the domestic economy to a greater or lesser extent. This applies both to the foreign residence of pensioners, to the purchase of equipment abroad and to the provision of assistance. For example, numerous estimates from NORAD show that about 40 pst. of the total aid appropriations was used for the purchase of goods and services produced in Norway in 1995 and 1996. Then we use fiscal indicators to complement the macroeconomic analyses, by simply giving an indication of the financial policy mechanism. However, a particular recommendation on fiscal policy is based on a broader approach, with different demand effects from, among others, private consumption, the oil sector and the municipal sector are involved. A specific policy recommendation measured by the indicator also depends on the composition of budget expenditure. On the other hand, once such a broad assessment base is established, the budgetary indicator acts as a dash in the further budgetary process. And it is then – in such a context – that all items of income and expenditure should count equally. And there are several reasons for that, firstly because all public expenditure has to be financed. Although the country has sound finances in the short term, long-term budgetary considerations, and in particular the need to meet the strong growth in pension expenditure that we all know will come, mean that significant funds are set aside in periods of high profits. In this context, it's important that a heads are a heads. I am also convinced that real political priorities could be disrupted if one in the budget discussions were to weigh different expenditure items differently. Expenditure that can be largely channelled out of the country would take precedence over increased appropriations for education, health and care services produced in Norway. However, if one chose to deduct costs, e.g.: for assistance from the indicator calculations, one had to do so for years to come in time. So you couldn't just do it for a year, and then leave the calculation behind. Then, naturally, the rashes would be wrong. Since aid represents about a constant proportion of gross domestic product over time, the indicator would be slightly influenced by it. It is the country's overall financial situation that needs to be focused. A fragmentation of the state budget and the elimination of a new external budget would make such an overview more difficult and could over time undermine the confidence of the budgetary system. The priorities between different areas would be affected in an unfortunate way, and it would break with regard to overall budgeting. There is also no reason to believe that actors, for example: in the money and currency markets, financial policy assessments would be influenced by a labeling of such expenditure items. Rather, the real effects of the level of activity will be decisive for market actors. It is therefore my opinion that it is a wise decision when a broad majority in the United Kingdom has stated that it is not an appropriate way to organise the budgetary system to separate its own foreign budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1003	I will first be allowed – perhaps a little unusual – to correct a typographical error in the setting. The pressure error in the configuration may have occurred because the same pressure error may have occurred in Document No. The 8th proposal. This applies to the table on page 2 of the setting. It says ‘Buy abroad with more than 3 years waiting time in Norway’. Of course, it shall be ‘3 months’ and not ‘3 years’. I ask that this be noted, so that you are aware of it. Then I have to say that now we are in a truly remarkable debate. I was very pleased with the contribution to Øystein Djupedal, because he has the same approach as us, namely that this sacred cow as the balance is really for the others, we have to look at the impact of individual proposals on the economy, we don't just have to look at that number. That is also our starting point. The problem did not answer, sir. Deep pedal on. The problem is that if someone now proposes something that has no impact on the activity of the Norwegian economy, the Labour Party, the Right and the three previous government parties do not justify their no by looking at the issue that is up to them, but they indicate that this will increase demand in the Norwegian economy and affect the balance. That's what's the problem, that getting a majority of perfectly reasonable proposals is stopped by the tailors of the Ministry of Finance, who have imagined a few politicians that a krone is a krone no matter how it's used and where it's used. And then the balance has to be kept anyway. It's a political argument, where you've learned some sentences from these tailors. Then Djupedal and we try to say that well, the emperor is really naked. This you go around and say, it's not right, he doesn't have great clothes. The balance is not like that either. There is a difference between a krone used abroad and a krone used in the home country. There is a difference between increasing public expenditure and reducing taxes. We need to look at the impact of the individual proposal for allocation and see how it affects the total economy. We got it, as Siv Jensen said, very well illustrated in a meeting of our group with the National Association of Construction Industries a few days ago. They said that in terms of the construction market for new houses, there is a pretty good balance. There's full employment, and there's the capacity for what they're doing now. On the construction side, however, 71 out of 74 drilling rigs in the country are standing still, and there is leave in the construction departments of the contractors. In other words, increased allocation to build a few more roads, bridges and tunnels would prevent lay-offs. It would have no effect on the Norwegian economy other than that we would have prevented permitations and used the capacity on people and machines that are available. It is only at the moment that more than there is the capacity to achieve wage-smokering and demand-effects, if necessary, because demand is greater than the supply. So there's a situation like this. Let me do another situation, which is even worse. The majority of the population says that there is a problem in hospitals because of a lack of capacity in the form of professionally qualified personnel, nurses, assistant nurses and perhaps also doctors. And the Workers' Party has said that there are no nurses coming up from the boreholes. That's right, but there's something coming up from the boreholes that can make us get a much better use and productivity of the nurses we have, namely, new, modern equipment. If you have a situation in a hospital – and you have it in many hospitals – where a nurse at a job spends four hours with the equipment they have today to do an operation or a treatment, maybe new equipment can get the nurse to do four treatments in the four hours, with a quadrupling of effectiveness. Then we haven't got any new nurses, but the capacity of the nurse's work has gone up to the quadruple, or over twice, because we've used the oil money to buy modern equipment abroad and replaced the old one. It would be exactly the effect that, yes, there are actually several nurses coming up from the boreholes in terms of money to buy hospital equipment abroad, which has no impact on the Norwegian economy. And then the government in the revised national budget says that it's exactly where they're going to save, on one of the most productive and necessary investments we have that can improve the capacity where there's a shortage of labour, and get more out of the workforce we have. Now they're saying to save heads for heads. Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen has hardly spoken true up here. For during the revision, there is a crown for crowns, and there is no difference between using a crown for hospital equipment and a crown in increased aid, possibly for the production of food, where employment is tripled and there is a lot of labour reserves. That's what we're trying to put the search light on. This idea of seeing it as having the same effect for every penny – Lars Gunnar Lie was well aware of this with macro-economic models. Take this into account, says Schjøtt-Pedersen. That's where I get to the tailors, because there's no one else but a few people in the Ministry of Finance who knows how the macro-economic models are designed, and think about any of the tailors making any serious misassessments? Then the entire economic policy is based on these unknown macroeconomic models, the five, eight, fourteen people up in the Ministry of Finance that nobody controls, and then the majority goes around and says they have to look at them, because the tailors up there in the Ministry of Finance have said that this is the case. And then you go straight, even if you don't understand anything yourself. That's what we want to end with. Because it's not like that. Schjøtt-Pedersen forgot to say that when he revises the national budget, our planned economic governance tool, in revised form, he treats it as a crown. If you don't want to believe my word, you can look at page 7, table 1.2, which just shows heads for heads how to cover the 5,218 million. kr that is – we say – old inherited bills, or bills that must be covered. What's even more fun, or saddening, is that you don't have to cover the total amount by using a cost cut. It is estimated that interest income from central banks will increase by 855 million. NOK, increased dividend of 866 million. NOK and a proposed tax relief towards 47 million. NOK 3,544 million. NOK to be covered in crowns. And then you forget that the tax and tax increases estimate has gone up by over five billion kroner. I.e. an estimate of the higher expenditure shall be included. However, it should not be possible to cover it by the corresponding item on the other hand, namely tax revenue, for which the estimate has also been wrong. It's -- huff, sir. President, I have to be careful not to use unparliamentary expressions – a way that has only one purpose, and that is to make sure that it gets worse for Norwegian society and worse for Norwegian citizens than it should have been. Let me also mention a different relationship – and I will come back to this matter in a moment – this by covering regulatory arrangements under popular security. I've been in the finance committee for eight years, too, and it was never about doing anything about changes in estimates in the revised national budget – never. Where there were real decisions, decisions were taken, but there was never any mention that estimates had anything to do with budget management, that miscalculations were to be made about the development when it was about how many cars were sold, how many pensioners that kept themselves alive a little longer than the tailors in the Ministry of Finance had expected, that it was smoked and drunk a little more or a little less, and that some had bought a little more goods and services and thus affected VAT. Now, all of a sudden, it's going to be used to justify cutting in sensible spending areas. Sir. Børge Brende said that the Progress Party too will cut expenses. Yes, of course we do. But our criterion for cutting expenditure in public budgets is that there are expenditures that are either unreasonable or otherwise not worth the cost. It's not because we want to spend more money in another area. If the other area itself doesn't have any negative consequences, we'd like to do it, but if there's any senseless allocation, we'll cut them. The distinction between unnecessary investment and necessary investment for the benefit of Norwegian society, the people living in this country, is very important to us. And when the reason for saying no to sensible things is that it affects the pressure in the Norwegian economy, we'll try to say, let's take out what has no impact on the Norwegian economy. Of course, here you can't figure out exactly the crown or the percentage effect on the Norwegian economy, but we know some of the main things. We know, as has been said, that a large part of the u-help does not have an impact on the Norwegian economy – this, of course, does not apply to NORAD and all wages, etc., but most of it. Now, because there has been so-called pressure in the economy – which I think is self-invented by these tailors when you look at the unemployment rate of 90,000 – you have suggested that we not buy fighter planes to get coverage for some domestic expenses. As if the purchase of fighter aircraft would have any impact on the Norwegian economy! Anyway, we're going to have the planes that we already have. They're just going to get new material. Of course, they should receive some training, but in relation to the investment costs, which are many hundreds of millions per year. fly, as far as I know, it's debatable. But you're going in to reduce the purchase of fighter planes from abroad because there's been some more payment of disability benefits. And then at least you would believe -- let me finish it -- that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance had been perfectly consistent in everything they do here, and treated all expenses and revenues equally. But it's on page 7: «The government has proposed a debt write-down of 6,7 billion earlier this year. krona for the NSB Gardermobanen AS. The amount shall be returned to the treasury in connection with the cancellation of the liabilities in the capital account. One has chosen to keep these transactions out when assessing the demand impulses of financial policy towards the Norwegian economy.’ When it suits the government to keep a few billion outside, they do it! But then you could say that it was in earlier times. Yes, it was 2 billion a year for the three years it took to build this path. That's where I'm going to refer to what Djupedal said, that this fine-tuning that you put in the revised is completely meaningless. This shows how things seen in isolation have a completely different effect from what the Government is now making. So: just organizing an investment measure as a share company model instead of as a state, removes billions of dollars if it is a relatively large project. And this fine control, where you've now gone down to an amount of 0.1 pst. So if we say that we have a national budget of approximately NOK 1,200 billion, that's NOK 1.2 billion, which is GBP 0.1 billion, an amount that makes the Minister of Finance say that this is overheating of the economy. It is completely pointless that this balance has been raised to such a sacred cow that one does stupid things with Norwegian society in terms of cutting out all the necessary expenditure and increasing taxes and taxes unnecessarily in a country that has no financial problems. And now we're letting fiscal, macro-economic demand and pressure in the economy, which is not a ‘fine’ science, guide us into the final details. There is only one comparison that is relevant and that is the ‘new clothes of the Emperor’. We in the Progress Party are happy that we belong to the little crowd with the little boy who tells us that we don't want to be in this anymore. We'll do what we can to make this majority use our heads, not just follow some macroeconomic models that you've never even seen the content of or how it works, but just trust someone in the Ministry of Finance who has the philosophy that every penny used in Norway is a wasted penny. We don't share that vision!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1044	The President believes that there may be a difference of opinion between the Minister of Finance and Mr. Hagen. The President will appeal to you, sir. Hagen's use of the words 'nearly didn't speak true' and would warn Mr. The tendency to repeat what through this can be a parliamentary unacceptable claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1047	I drew myself before the representative Hagen went to the pulpit, but while he was standing there, I came to think that really it is tonight. But I will still comment on some of the things that have been said during this debate, because the representative Siv Jensen said that there is of course a difference between investment and operation, that there is a difference between placing money where there is free capacity and where there is full use of capacity, and that we are not taking that debate, for example. between the construction sector. I don't know what it's like in the Progress Party, but at least we do. It now worked both on the representatives Jensen and Hagen as if there was a new recognition that would mean that we had to split the budget into two – a domestic and a foreign budget. But for us it's always been so that we've taken it into account. We went on and picked up, for example. road investment only in the 1990s as part of employment policy because of the availability of services in the civil engineering sector. There are no new discussions. We've been conducting such discussions forever. That's why last year we tried to get a package that fit in with the yard industry and offshore sector, because we saw that there could be free capacity. And then we pissed money at you in the budget. There's no new way to think about it at all. It's at least for our part old and familiar. But what's a little funny in the debate is that we've been through a whole series of Document Nos this evening. Eight proposals. You can ask questions about how clever it is to keep all of those Document Nos. The 8 proposals which are actually included in the budget between the budget and the revision. But now leave it. In this respect, the representative Hagen was up and ridiculed the national budget, which is a plan-based economic tool, which he said was an attempt at fine management that only the elite – later referred to as the tailors – could serve in the Ministry of Finance. Then we changed the case number, and then the Progress Party comes and suggests that we need more detail, more fine-tuning and more nuances in the national budget. It does not depend on one case to another. So, of course, in the budget calculations today, there is a difference between the pressures of money spent out and money spent domestically. This is reflected in the proposal put forward by the Progress Party itself. Point I states that one shall create a separate budget for those items which have no domestic impact. The representative Hagen repeated it now. He underlined: that which has no effect. If I don't remember completely wrong, it's on page 3 of the document. On page 2 of the document, there is a list of examples of issues that can be addressed to the foreign budget, all of which have a greater or lesser impact on the domestic budget. None of the examples used by the Progress Party comes into the category they themselves are talking about in the proposal for a Decision under I – those that have no impact. It shows that this is essentially a theory. I think it's about what I'm talking about, for example. heard in connection with a Document No. Eight proposals in the autumn of 1997, when oil prices had risen: we have won in Lotto. Then it was about that we were going to spend the extra money, because they should have come in addition. And when the representative Hagen says that these are theories that the Treasury tailors have built up, and that it is not documented to work at all, it is a mistake. In the autumn of 1997, the representative Hagen and the Progress Party got the central government to increase the budget beyond what the professional community thought was responsible, and then we got the exact effect that the representative Hagen is not there. The increase in interest rates came quite immediately in 1998. So even if we split the budget into two, we simply can't free ourselves from what I think is really the pinch of the Progress Party, namely that we need to give priority to the things that we can all agree on is good purpose. The times we have chosen to take them in without prioritizing, the costs have become large and the results are weak, both for the municipalities that would use e.g. health equipment and plans, and in the private economy. It is possible that life would have been easier without the so-called tailors, that one could feel something freer. But then it's probably asked if it's not just those who don't want the real tailors, who stay standing like the naked ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1060	The representative of Djupedal has given a clear explanation of SV’s views regarding Document No. The 8 proposal, so I am not going to go into concrete matters in the proposal. The reason I took the floor was that I heard the Minister of Finance's statement while I was in the office and was doing something quite different than this matter. Still independent of what Carl I. Hagen said here, I also got associations when I heard that statement. The emperor has no clothes on at all, I thought. It can really not be that the social economy should now be elevated not only to a science but to a religion, for example, where funds to the rest of the world, to the most underdeveloped countries, should appear as a threat to Norway. So, in relation to the rich, the poor must be a threat to our wealth, and in relation to the profits we have, and as the Minister of Finance said to take care of, the mentally ill become a threat to the level of interest rates. This must be understood in the light of the proposal for a revised national budget, where the Government proposes a cut of 100 million. kr. Regardless of this proposal, the propriety of the Minister of Finance must also be called for in relation to concrete instruments against the weakest in a population, including in the hospital sector. It may not be possible, in the hospital sector, to grant funds for furniture and equipment in order for the population to receive the treatment they require in a decent manner. What we now record in interviews in various newscasts with the people around Norway, and also with people who meet as alternates here at Stortinget, but who have their rapporteurs in Norwegian municipalities, is that this goes beyond their minds – or I had almost said under their minds. The statement you get in the field of social economics is not understandable no matter how far you have to extend the goodwill, then I'll actually agree with the representative Hagen. When you read between the lines of the statement made by the Minister of Finance, this is nothing, a mere nuance statement – without clothes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1070	First two heart attacks: one is linked to the fact that it is at least the last time we from the Right will be in favour of free debate, linked to a Document No. Eight proposals, a few weeks before the review of the revised budget. This is developing into an alternative revised debate, and I think that was actually not meant to be. My second heartache is linked to the form of debate we have had today. I understand that the Progress Party disagrees with the Minister of Finance's presentation, but it must be possible to discuss a matter relating to whether different operational purposes and investments have different effects on the Norwegian economy and demand pressure, without characterising the Minister of Finance as having stood up here and almost not being true. I guess it was, sir. Hagen who said it and got packing from the president. So Siv Jensen referred to the Minister of Finance's letter as falling down on the Stortinget, and said that in her two sentences, which she commented, the Finance Committee was listening to something. This is not a form of debate! Why characterize political opponents in this way? I actually thought that the Progress Party had a minimum of respect also for those who took a different position. It's okay enough to argue against the other thing, but going to the kind of characteristics I think actually weakens the case and should be completely unnecessary. I have noticed that the Progress Party now has views on how to fine-tune the instruments of the Norwegian economy more in one breath, while, on the other hand, taking a big deal with what has obviously been the position of Norwegian policy, that it should be possible to run fiscal policy through cyclical management. The representative Hagen was up on the platform and said that he had now had a meeting with the construction industry, where they said that we can now dampen the pressure on construction, but bet more on construction. Then we're going to be able to fine-tune it through public funds. I think it's a little over-optimistic, but Carl I. Hagen has a point: there's different pressure in the two areas. But then the Progress Party also accepts that it is actually possible to stabilise economic development through fiscal policy. And today's proposals of the Progress Party are, in fact, based on the fact that it is possible to stabilise the Norwegian economy through financial policy. But the disagreement, as I said in my previous post, is linked to the fact that different appropriations may have different effects on the economy. But if the Progress Party wants investments mainly linked to the rest of the world to take precedence in a situation where the pressure is high in the Norwegian economy, how, in such a budgetary system as they wish, will expenditure actually have a greater impact on demand in the Norwegian economy than other investments? The representative was Hagen, among others. inside the construction industry. We know that government tasks related to the construction industry traditionally have a very strong demand effect on the Norwegian economy. Would one budget be created for what is causing strong pressure on the economy, one for what is working medium, and one for what is less effective? Of course, that's a completely hopeless way of thinking about it. What you've actually done for simplicity, and for which it's also a professional reason, is to put this together in a bag post and then balance the different things against each other, and that's why we get a responsible arrangement. When the Progress Party goes out and almost takes away from the fact that we now have pressure trends in the Norwegian economy, as if there were something that some ‘customers’ in the Ministry of Finance have come up with, it is a characteristic of the economic thinking that exists in other countries as well. Now, when the Federal Reserve with Greenspan in the head again increases interest rates by 0.5 pst – and that's an interest rate increase that comes on top of many others – it's because you're afraid of the demand pressure. The lack of labour, the rise in housing prices, the increase in retail sales, and what the Federal Reserve says, is that if you don't now manage to stop the pressure in the American economy, it could lead to a special American price rise, a weakening of competitiveness, and, in the long run, destroying the fundamental prerequisites for further growth and prosperity. There is nothing else we say in Norway either. We go in and say that if we are now to preserve the good we have achieved in the Norwegian economy, we must be something reserved and prioritized within the framework. It's not harder. And what's the alternative? If we now let it boil into the Norwegian economy, it will happen that the interest will be set up further. And an additional interest rate increase is going to hit the weakest, because the interest rate increase is going to hit blindly. There is no social assessment underpinning it, the most common framework for those with the least wealth, those who are in the start-up phase or who establish themselves for the second time. It will be the effect of adding increased pressure to the Norwegian economy, and it will be a very unsocial solution. That's why we're going to try our best within the framework we have, and then there's opportunities to actually reduce the pressure in the Norwegian economy and keep the high employment rate. We don't think anything about this area other than what we see in every other country. The United Kingdom is struggling with exactly the same problems, they are in a cyclical phase that is similar to the American and Norwegian ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1091	First of all, a manifest misunderstanding: when the chairman of the financial committee, Dag Terje Andersen, referred to the budgetary procedure in the autumn of 1997 and suggested that the subsidiary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the Centre should have led to the forthcoming interest rate increases, the chairman of the Committee knows better! The situation at that time was quite extraordinary in the international economy, where monetary policy was guided by the exchange rate trend and not as today, where there is more emphasis on domestic inflation expectations. But then to the matter. It was a very upset Børge Brende who was in the pulpit. Why can't we have a system debate? It's not like there's a broad disagreement in this room about some important things. All batches want stable economic development; all batches want to contribute to ensuring low and stable inflation. But I have also recorded from the debate that several of the posts have just moved in the direction of wanting to take the different elements inwards and consider and weigh them differently. Why can't we then help to find out if it's possible to make the very system that weighs the economic indicators differently? It was just one of the things that was also mentioned in the article from Today's Business to which I referred, because it was shown that as long as neither the economic research community, the Bank of Norway, the Central Bureau of Statistics nor the Ministry of Finance are engaged and want to find something new, things become as they are. They also state that ‘it is not useful for all men and women to weigh one type of expenditure or income separately against the other and conclude that one penny here is the same as 67 cents there’. They write that there has to be a system that we can all accept and understand together, and I totally agree with that. Should the economic debate and the nuances, the priorities, move on, we actually need to create a slightly more complex system. I heard that Dag Terje Andersen tried to create the impression that in one case we would have more fine management and in the other case less. But we want a system that can contribute to the nuances of the debate on economic development in Norway, and the nuance debate will not get as long as a krone is a krone no matter what it is used for, because that will be the reality at the moment when the Stortinget receives the budget for consideration. Then we can sit and discuss political priorities that – yes – we are going to operate with, but we are also going to operate with responsible budgeting, and then not a krone used here or there is exactly the same thing, it has different effects, and that part of the debate should also be able to lead in the finance committee and the magnificence, because these bodies are so important that they should have the opportunity to do so. In fact, I think it's a paradox, as also the representative Hagen said, that we should in some way be offered that someone else is making the analysis, and that we have to deal with some lines that are put under some answers without us being able to influence and discuss our own political priorities. If the bulk of the population thinks it is necessary to do other priorities than what the government has recommended, it could be good to know what effect it had on the economy. But you don't get that. It is not about creating different budgets, but about having within the existing budgetary system a more nuanced management of some elements that are actually important. So Dag Terje Andersen said that this was about prioritizing, that we have to give priority. Yes, that's exactly what we have to do, but precisely because we need to give priority, it's good to know that the priorities we actually do have the economic impact and impact on the economy that we actually think they have, that we're not just based on assumptions and vision, but actually on something more governance tool than what we have today. And I think it's nice that not a majority in this Chamber will be involved and help us get a system that will nuance and create a more interesting economic debate. That's what we've been asking for. We haven't asked that we now suddenly start pouring billions into the economy. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about having a nuanced economic debate, and I think it is nice that we do not want to contribute to it here. Then you put in as a main argument that you're going to suddenly get such a primacy scheme where the Stortinget is going to start actively giving priority to things that you spend abroad rather than in Norway. No, but also there I can nuance the debate, in all the other areas. I think we can establish that there is a broad political consensus about low, stable inflation, but let's not fool ourselves into our own debate by not having the ability to discuss the details, to nuance, to see the difference in how the crowns are used. I had hoped that the Right too would make sense, because it would actually help to make the entire economic debate more interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1100	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox Votering, see page 3162 The regulatory time for the evening meeting is immediately over, and the President will propose that we continue the meeting until we have taken the decisions to be taken by the Stortinget and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1108	It is then to be voted on on on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1196	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-4, by Rolf Rikvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 5 and 8, by Mr Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6, by Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of Left Amendment No. 7, from Inge Wages and salaries on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 6, from the Left, is in its form a transmission proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government make an overall assessment of the integration challenges in Oslo School, and present this to the Stortinget as its own case.’ The President proposes that this proposal be submitted to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considers it to be acceptable. In the course of the debate, proposal No. 1 by the Socialist Left, and proposal No. 7, from the Right, converted to transmission proposals. The proposal from the Socialist Left then reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government initiates various attempts at alternative organisation of training and school day. It is particularly important to test schemes such as:Aging mixed in full schoolsNew ways of organising schoolday without the traditional division into subjects and hoursOrganisation of the school year so that one can start at different times of the year. For example, a system should be tested where children start school on the day they reach the age of 6. In addition, arrangements should be made for adults to start training at different times of the year. Such an organisation requires a greater degree of project work and that schools base their curriculum on organisation and do not allow the textbook to govern the structure.’ The proposal from the Right is amended as follows:‘It is recommended that the Government submit its own case to the Stortinget on the position of the Mining of Vocational School Education in the autumn 2000’. [[NUE 2000:5]] The President proposes that these proposals be submitted to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considered to be acceptable. The proposals are then put to the vote. 5 and 8 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to conduct a liberal practice in approving applications for the establishment and operation of private schools under the Private School Act.’ 8 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the approval of the Oasen Barneskole in Songdalene municipality in accordance with the decisions of the State Council Jon Lilletun, the Ministry of Education and Research on 13 March 2000.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1263	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case for the main organisational and educational development projects in progress at school as a basis for a discussion [[primary and secondary]] The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1279	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the 2001 State Budget, to commit appropriations to stimulate schools to test different educational and organisational trials.’ The Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1295	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals during the autumn of 2000 to legislate on the working environment for pupils and students.’ The Labour Party and the Right have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1311	The President will propose that the minutes be annexed to the statement by the Minister of the Church, Education and Research at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 4 May 2000. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. To Case No 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1319	During the debate, Mr Monsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and Mr Bastesen, the proposals. Two and three. The President noted that proposal No. 1 has not been recorded. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the 2001 State Budget, for a statement on the differences in transport costs in the EU area and for proposals to amend the car diesel tax in order to keep it in line with the minimum EU level.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a flexible automotive diesel system so that the levy goes down when the oil price rises and vice versa, so that the selling price does not change as a result of changes in the oil price.’ Optionally, between the settings and the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1363	During the debate, Mr Monsen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible for changes in the level of taxes on petrol so that the Norwegian level of charges is at an average level for Sweden, Denmark and Finland.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the context of the 2001 State Budget, to propose the introduction of a system whereby the petrol charge does not exceed the average European market charge of the previous year.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a flexible petrol tax system, so that the tax goes down when the oil price rises and vice versa, so that the selling price does not change significantly as a result of changes in the oil price.’ An alternative is to vote between the position and the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1398	During the debate, Siv Jensen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals for the Storting so that the annual fee for motor vehicles is paid for the time when the vehicle is registered.’ Alternatively, the vote will be taken between the vote and the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1423	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The President noted that the II of the proposal had not been taken up. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-2.ana.ud956e1456	There is no record.
