ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e29	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e34	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e39	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Asmund Kristoffersen are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Asmund Kristoffersen are unanimously elected as chairpersons of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e60	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Odd Roger Enoksen State Council Eldbjørg Løwer State Council Day Jostein Fjærvoll The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e79	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs a question as a district minister responsible for regional policy. The question is about an assessment of the whole of the regional policy that the Government is now pursuing. When this government was established, it was put up for a strong bet, such as, among other things. were setting up new jobs in District-Norway. What we are now seeing is an increasing regional uprising that threatens the already existing private sector jobs in District Norway through the policies pursued. It appears that the government has a slogan that ‘we are going to make Norway more expensive’, and that in practice means that District Norway is getting poorer. What we are now seeing is the lay-offs in the transport industry where there are opportunities for competition from others outside Norway. Elsewhere, we see that the increase in fuel taxes is reduced to export producers, which increases costs. Does the Council of State see that the general framework primarily affects District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e88	It is true that it has been important for this government to pursue an active district policy to ensure housing and employment in the districts. This is why innovation has also been initiated in a number of areas. Actions to strengthen regional policy efforts have been implemented and will continue to be implemented and strengthen the opportunities for job creation in District Norway. Of course, the level of charges also has an impact on the competitiveness of business and on the possibilities of maintaining the jobs we have set up. They shall also be kept. It is also part of the Government's assessment of the overall economic policy. The tax introduced – I expect the representative to think first and foremost of the 25 ears on the diesel tax as an environmental tax at the top of the other charges – means that the environmental diesel actually comes on the market faster than the government intended, because it has acted as an incentive to put the environmental diesel in place and ensure that it becomes available in the whole country faster than was originally foreseen. The Minister of Finance has met with the truck industry to discuss the competitive conditions for industry and to look at the effects both in relation to countries around us and in relation to the effects of district policy. No action has been outlined. The environmental tax acts as intended. The environmental diesel will be in place. It's an advantage in terms of total pollution, and it's an advantage for the country that we get that kind of diesel in place, which already exists in a large monk in our neighboring country. In order not to import large quantities of diesel and in order not to impede competition for the country in this way, the Government has also requested that controls on imports of diesel be stepped up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e101	It is not just a question of diesel taxes when I claim that the Government currently has as slogan that ‘we make Norway more expensive’. It is also, in addition to increased petrol taxes, a question of how the conciliation is based on increased and stronger taxation of industrial buildings in the district of Norway than in the central regions. We also have the announced tax conversion related to VAT, where the government has ‘sold’ the positive side, namely lower VAT on food, but has forgotten to talk so much about what the consequences will be if the funding becomes an extension to VAT on services, among other things. in the tourism industry. It is crucial for the existing women's workplaces in District Norway how such a VAT introduction will be carried out. The Council of State does not see that, for example: the introduction of VAT on tourism services would threaten a number of women's jobs in districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e106	A matter of VAT reform will be submitted to Stortinget at a later stage. Then the Government will come back with the proposals that will be promoted in this regard. It is quite obvious that the issues which also affect the competitiveness of companies in the district of Norway will be taken into account when the Government submits this case. There is a total assessment to be made, both in relation to the income side and in relation to the types of services to be charged with VAT. The government will come back to that, and I am asking for an understanding that at this point I cannot address the type of services that might be imposed on VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e113	There will be follow-up questions – Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e116	What we are now seeing is that Norwegian customs authorities are set to give priority to examining the content of diesel tanks in a situation where one would think there were entirely other areas that required far greater priority. Fees have been recorded here. I have today received a letter from the county council, the county council, where the central party has the county rapporteur and where they are in the management of the council. They have sent a letter to the Minister of Finance expressing a strong concern about recent tax increases, pointing in particular to the increase in diesel tax, which comes at the top, in a situation where the country has a huge price increase, a very strong krone. They also point to the disfavor of District Norway in the market. When the party traps of the State Council of Enoxens send such a letter, is there something they have not at all understood by the mechanism of this increase in prices and increase in charges that takes place?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e125	First, the customs authorities give priority to examining diesel tanks, as the representative Kristiansen says. I find it difficult to see that it is an area that should not be given priority. I find it difficult to believe that the representative of Kristiansen believes that those who introduce the legal quantity of diesel will have a competitive disadvantage compared to those who choose to import diesel illegally, taking it across the border illegally. I also choose to believe that the representative Kristiansen does not want foreign trailers entering Norway to have a competitive advantage by being able to bring in more quantities of diesel than the Norwegian trailer is allowed to. So I find it difficult to believe that the representative of Kristiansen does not agree that it is important to refer to the Norwegian law and to the regulations that exist regarding the legal quantity of imported diesel. Then to the letter from the county council. Of course, we take such a letter seriously. Of course, we're looking at all the recordings that come from our members and our representatives around the whole country. We also take that into account in policy-making when we look at the overall policy design.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e133	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e136	I want to ask a question to the State Council, Odd Roger Enoksen, and it will probably not surprise many people that I am asking questions about the local economy. I was a member of the Municipal Committee in the previous period, and it was a committee with a strong feature from the Central Party. Before the 1997 elections, there was no way the municipalities needed money, according to the Center Party. The accounts for 1998 are now available, an economic nightmare for Kommune-Norway. It must be a crossroads of thought for a Central Party Council that 1998 will be a bottom year for the local economy in the 1990s, the worst since 1988. The deficit was NOK 6.7 billion, and there is reason to believe that the deficit will be on this scale for 1999. I would like to remind you that the Centre cooperates with the Right and the Advance Party on the budgets for 1998 and 1999. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e145	It's about time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e148	It is true that there is reason to believe that the deficit in 1999 is going to be somewhat in line with the deficit in 1998, i.e. approximately. 6 billion kroner — without the final figures being available. It's an estimate from my side that has to be taken for what it is. This is due to several things. This is not least because we have chosen to implement an older reform in a way where it is financed specifically and reimbursed over a quite long period of time. Investments are high for a short period, and the cost coverage of municipalities will take place over a long period of time. This, of course, results in a relatively large deficit in the implementation of such a reform. But at the same time, as I have said to the media in several contexts, there is concern that the detailed management of the municipal sector is increasing, that the deficits are increasing and that the local space for action in the municipal sector is still being narrowed. That is what I deem to be a municipal minister to be serious. I will also follow up the decisions taken by the Storting to carry out a thorough review of the income system, carry out a thorough review of the earmarked schemes in order to see what can be done in relation to the detailed management of the municipal sector, because I believe it is vital that the municipal sector is given greater freedom of action in relation to how to solve its tasks. But we must not forget that, of course, the local government sector also has a responsibility for its own operations, and that, within the framework that is there at all times, we must of course seek as far as possible to adapt operations and organisation to the financial framework. But it is an ambition on my part to carry out a thorough review of what the Stortinget has asked for in order to facilitate the situation of the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e159	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Now the Council of State repeats what has been in the press lately, that, first of all, there will now be discussions between the KS and the Ministry on what needs and revenues the municipalities need, there will be smaller transfers of earmarked funds – we have seen an increase at this Council of State – and the municipalities will get beyond DKK 5 billion more in 2001. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State get it this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e168	Firstly, the talks to be carried out with the KS are an innovation that this government has put in place, and which I believe may be of great importance to the dialogue between the local government and the state in relation to the kind of actions to be implemented in each financial year and the financial framework in relation to this implementation. It is true that now over several years there has been an increase in the proportion of earmarked funds. This is due, inter alia, to: the major national reforms that are taking place and which – as I have said – will increase the designation both in 2000 and probably in 2001. Despite the Government's intention to convert earmarked schemes into free resources, the implementation of elderly reform, health reform and reforms in psychiatry and cancer, in some cases, will result in much more input-driven funding being introduced into the local government sector to increase designation. The fact that this is to be financed in this way has largely led to a unanimous increase – it is not possible to do so in any other way. And then the Council of State has not given any figures in relation to what kind of increase the municipalities will get in their economy to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e177	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e180	It's sometimes you feel like in an absurd theater, like now when you hear from the State Council of Enoxen. I had the pleasure of sitting here in the main hall together with 32 central parties in the previous period, and I don't think I'm very wrong when I say half of the posts that were held here in the hall were about District Norway and municipal economy and how bad it actually was in Municipality-Norway. Now, when you hear the excuses given by the Council of State about the situation in Norwegian municipalities, where you owe it to the income system, due to state reforms, that everything should be better once in the future, there is reason to remember a word like this: «In the future we will all be dead.» Thus, the municipalities do not live in the future, they live now. My question is not how much the Council of State has actually intended to give, but it is as follows: Does the Council of State feel comfortable with the resources made available to Norwegian municipalities? Does he feel comfortable with the fact that the State and the Stortinge do not grant enough money? And: does he feel comfortable with that all the approx. The 100 rapporteurs in the Central Party are very dissatisfied with the framework provided by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e187	I already said in my contribution to the Stortinget when we dealt with the municipal economy for 2000, that this was a very tight arrangement that was going to confront the municipalities with a great challenge in terms of implementing the 2000 budget within the framework that was then adopted, even with the billion that was put in place in connection with the landfill. It's a very tight arrangement, I've never put that on. But at the same time, we should not forget that in 1998, we had an economic situation where interest rates rose by 4.5 p.m. and where the economy was about to get out of control. The local government sector is a very large proportion of the national budget, and therefore also important in relation to price increases, in relation to interest rates and not least in relation to the development of unemployment. It was a responsibility that the Government and the Stortinget had to take, which also in 1999 and 2000 led to the adoption of reasonably tight budgets, simply because there are no more available hands to put into work. That is why this budget has been tight. What I find to be worst in many ways is that the detailed management of the municipal sector has increased every year, because I believe that with a greater degree of freedom you would be able to do more tasks with the same framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e194	Erling Brandsnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e197	The great frustration in Norwegian municipalities today is not primarily that there are poor accounting figures, it is what they are expected to get from what was said in the election campaign in 1997, which is the great frustration. Then happy centre parties traveled around the country and promised more money – there will be more money for the municipal sector. Then we see what's happening, and it can be explained with the older reform and one with the other, but the great frustration is just going on with the promises that were made. I have been rapporteur for 12 years, and I find it very frustrating to have a budget for 1998 and 1999 that was so poor, because there is a disparity between the services that people demand from the municipalities and the resources that are deployed. When, in the evening post on Tuesday 18 January, Enoxen says that it should be a power cap, I would like to know what that power cap is, whether it is anything other than what we heard in the election campaign in 1997.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e205	The last question I will be allowed to come back to in connection with the presentation of the municipal economic proposition in May this year. Local authorities have seen significant growth in the total economy in 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000. The problem is that we have had a negative trend in free income, because the municipal sector has been entrusted with many new tasks, and there are many new national reforms to be implemented, which require re-prioritisation from other areas to, among others. the older people's bet. So in sum, the local economy has not evolved in line with the development of tasks. I would also like to remind you that, in the 1999 election campaign, I actually said that in the school sector, it was not possible to make a strong commitment to the 2000 budget, because there was simply no room for it in a tight community economy. Then there was another that made much bigger promises in that direction, which we see unfortunately it has not been possible to follow up in the adopted budget for 2000. In fact, I believe that from my side it was kept a rather sober line in relation to making promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e214	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e217	I have, probably not unexpectedly, a question to the Minister of Defence. Norway has always been close to 2 000 soldiers in international operations, a large part of which is in Kosovo in the so-called KFOR force. Protection of crews is essential. Everyone has so-called splintproof vests that provide some protection, but it is known that four out of ten in the KFOR force lack so-called bulletproof vests, and the difference here in given situations may be the difference between life and death. Is there a lack of economics or a lack of planning that makes us have such a situation? Does the Council of State think that four out of ten missing bulletproof vests provide acceptable security for our soldiers in KFOR?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e226	First of all, I would just like to say that the security of our soldiers, whom we send out to international operations, is being given considerable emphasis by this government, and also by those we sent to Kosovo. When we sent our forces out to Kosovo, the threat picture was assessed so that the force was set up with fissure vests to all and bulletproof vests to 60 pst. by the force, as the representative Røsjorde says. But this with the safety risk is under constant assessment, and we have come to the conclusion that the threat picture has changed, so that it has been ordered and actually also delivered bulletproof vests to everyone in Kosovo today. I have been confirmed that these have now reached the Norwegian national support element, so Røsjord's questions have already been answered that everyone now has bulletproof vests.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e231	I will nevertheless have the opportunity to follow up. So it's like our first force in KFOR was those who moved into a very uncertain area, and I'm aware that KFOR II, who's going to move in in April, will be fully covered in terms of protection. I am particularly pleased that the Council of State has clearly seen that there was a need to do something about the situation I pointed out, and that is good. But it's strange when the first force that moves into a very uncertain area does not have perfectly good protection, and my question is, is it that the situation has now become more difficult than when you move in, or is the core either that you did not have the necessary preparedness with sufficient equipment, and that you are thus arguing outside this reality? Will the Council of State ensure that the economy is not an obstacle to the security of our soldiers abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e238	Of course, the safety risk when sending out soldiers will be assessed from time to time depending on the type of operation. Kosovo came up, and the representative of the Red Land has also been one of those who have been critical that we did not get out quickly enough to Kosovo. Some of the reasons we actually needed time were exercise for security reasons, but it was also to get equipment that was safe enough for us to defend it in relation to the threat they came down to. It was a preparation for an action that we are not satisfied with. That's why St.meld is now located. No 38 for 1998–99 for treatment in the United Kingdom, so that in the following operations we should be better prepared. I repeat that the security of those we send out is substantial and will be significantly safeguarded in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e245	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e248	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. In June, the Stortinget addressed the issue of some regulatory issues in the telecommunications sector, and the Minister for Transport said that there was now no need for any state intervention for the development of the telecommunications network, and it was said that: ‘market operators appear to be able to offer the necessary transmission capacity on a commercial basis’. State Council Fjærvoll has later stated that he believes that the state should not currently use money to establish a digital network, since the telecommunications companies have so far established that network themselves. Is it still government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e260	I also said a little bit more in the famous post, namely that we would follow this closely up and make sure that the interests on a national basis were safeguarded. This has been done by the Government. We have started an inter-ministerial group, led by the Ministry of Transport, which goes through the issues related to, among other things. also for the broadband discussion. This group shall have made its nomination by 1 April at the latest. In other words, it is very fast-working, and I will have the opportunity to come back to Stortingen with this question in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e267	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At the June reading, the parties to the government and a majority in the Grand Duchy voted against the introduction of a minimum price and against the introduction of a compulsory development obligation. I record that it has been arranged that you should have a broadband coverage within five years in far beyond 80 pst. of the country, which will cost a significant number of billions. I also record that you not only discuss the maximum price, but equal price across the country, and that you not only discuss minimum requirements, but equal quality across the country. Can I perceive the Council of State so that the Government has not taken a position on this issue at this stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e274	It is correct that the Government has not yet concluded. We're in an investigation phase. We want the best possible coverage. In other words, we will first examine whether market operators can provide that coverage and meet the needs. We will also deal with general competition rules that are within the EU and the EEA system, when we conclude, but the Government's objective is to ensure the highest possible country coverage in the sector we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e280	There will be follow-up questions – Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e283	I think it is exciting that the Council of State now confirms that this has been taken into account, especially from what we have now heard on several occasions, that this is a government as a percentage of the districts, because it is not set in the districts when it is that it takes 30 minutes for Daldata, which is established in Tynset and Folldal, to get through to Elverum. It takes 30 minutes, and they're there waiting. The government does not have credibility in district policy if we do not get ahead of what we have pointed out, namely that we should be able to establish businesses all over the country. We expect a broadband network to be set up, that cable will work so that we can get through and really operate with data technology around the district of Norway. That is why it is interesting what Mr Enoxen said earlier here today that it is investing in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e288	Computer technology is quite deliberately part of the district effort. How fast technology is moving forward, we're all amazed. That means that what was new technology six months ago, maybe today is not current technology to put into use and expand, in other words, operators will have a front line in the sector's bet. In those areas in which operators themselves can observe the offer and offer a maximum offer, it is not, in my view, correct, not necessary and contrary to the competition rules of the State or the public. In those areas, both regionally and in areas where we do not have satisfactory coverage, it is natural that the state not only shows interest but also shows commitment, and ultimately financial commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e293	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e296	I also have a question for the Minister for Transport. Railway safety has been the focus of some tragic accidents. After the AST accident, the focus was on investment in remote control and automatic train stop. After the last accidents at level crossings, it focuses on the removal and securing of level crossings. In the evening post last Monday, as well as Director Killi of the Railway Agency as State Secretary Sandal of the Ministry of Transport, says that it is working to re-prioritise funds from projects that are betting on new installations and increasing speed, to safety measures on the railway network. No one opposes the protection of the rail network, but at the same time the railway as a mode of transport is significantly safer than road transport. According to the department's own figures, the chances of being killed are seven times higher on the road than on the railway, and the risk of being injured is 60 times higher on the road than on the railway, assuming that the passengers are on the same route. Does the Council agree with the statements made by the Director of the Railway Agency and his own State Secretary on the phasing-out of investments in new installations and speed-enhancing measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e307	Let me first stress that the safety of public communications is something we need to focus on in the future too, but the risk of accidents is minimal in relation to what we experience on a daily basis in car traffic. As the Council of State, I will deal with more than 300 car traffic fatalities every year – these are challenging figures. If we look at how many people die in public communications, we get some other sizes to operate with. Nevertheless, the message is clear in all areas of activity: road safety and safety shall be at the bottom regardless of whether the budgetary framework is small or large. This means that in the case of public communications, such as: the railway will need to balance operations/maintenance with investments during periods. In my view, it means that in periods of time we have to twist the stakes somewhat. In next year's and current year's budget, we have put maximum effort into improving the lines to deploy tilt trains. That means that we may have to shift some of the effort somewhat, but this has not yet taken its position today. I need to stress that in rail, road, air and sea safety must be given priority before everything else, and public communications in Norway are safe communications.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e314	Stepping down railway investment means reducing safety in the transport sector, as it does not make rail competitive. A re-priority from investment in rail to security measures means that the railway becomes less attractive. In Finland, two serious railway accidents occurred in 1998. After that, the railway people and Finnish politicians set themselves an objective of creating Europe’s safest rail system, and it was to be implemented by 2002. It is a plan that costs NOK 2 billion and covers everything from automatic train stop and improvement of signalling systems for removing and securing level crossings. The 2 billion were not taken from the railway investment framework in Finland, but were added. Can the Council of State imagine inviting the Storting to enter into the Finnish model, and set the goal of creating Europe's safest railway without reducing the investment funds planned, funds that are already too small, and thus getting both a safe and modern railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e321	I can't guarantee, because I don't know the details of the Finnish plan, that we will follow it exactly. But what I can promise here and now is that in the national transport plan, which the Government will present later in our day, it will be my clear proposal that in all sectors – this should be a historic plan – safety, road safety should be at the bottom. It means, in other words, that angles in other sectors must be based on a road safety angle. Then it could be that we clearly have to re-priorities between the different levels. We are going to have to take the debate here in the Chamber on how it is to be redistributed, but it is going to be, in my proposal, a redistribution of safety to public communications and also safety in the road sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e326	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e329	I want to ask the Minister for Transport a question. According to the Department and the Directorate of Roads, only a few road projects have not been completed or have been abandoned around the country. According to the TV 2 news yesterday and my own overviews, there are actually road projects across the country that either consist of a tunnel or a bridge, where there is no road in any of the ends. Every day, there are actually enquiries to me about new scandal projects around, and my list is probably ten times as long as the Road Directorate has stated. Does the Minister for Transport have a complete overview of all these road projects that have been abandoned, or do I need to continue researching all this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e338	All research can be useful – including in this area. I cannot confirm here and now that all the information that was provided in the entry last night is completely comprehensive, but I know a good part of the projects that were mentioned. [[Laughter]] Reality is as follows: in recent years road appropriations have had a downward trend. This has meant that some installations have had to stop. This is explained in the last year's government budget, i.e. the 1999 budget, where it says in concrete terms that in order to make rational progress on the plants, 800 million were needed. In addition, kr. Now it's not like there's just money on it. Occasionally, there may be a lack of regulation, and sometimes it may also be as shown on the TV entry last night, that mass is taken out of one tunnel to fill in another road system, despite the fact that the tunnel project will not be included in the total solution until long in time. In other words, there are several reasons why what has happened. My goal, and here there will be different views in this room, is that we now have to learn to run the projects rationally. We lose values every year for approx. 15 pst. of the road appropriations because we stop projects, start projects and do not have rational progress. National economics cannot defend this in the long term. That is why, in this year's budget, I have put a burden on myself by saying: we are now completing a number of plants that are in progress, getting a rational drive, despite the fact that we are not able to keep the proper distribution of the estate completely out. I think that's right anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e348	I find that the Minister for Transport does not have a full overview, and it may not have the Directorate of Road or the Department either. So the council says that much of this was done for rational propulsion. It seems strange to me when it turns out that there is a finished bridge to quite a lot of millions in the middle of an earth, and there is no way to or from the bridge. And so are tunnels. I cannot therefore see that this is rational progress. With rational propulsion, I believe that the project is completed, then the tunnel is completed instead of leaving the tunnel half-completed, with crab fields and everything. I think this is a crazy way of building. You have to take the projects, and then you have to finish them. But what will the Council of State now do with all these projects that are halfway around? The Council of State would like to get a list of these projects from me. Will he complete these tunnels, these bridges and these road sections that stand there, because, after all, there are a lot of them in places where there is a lot of daily traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e357	I have the goal when we start the projects that are stopped along the way, that we should have sufficient appropriations in place to get a rational drive forward. So it won't be advisable, in my view, to start a project that doesn't have the necessary appropriations, both this year, for the next year and the following year. In other words, I want to see the individual project in the context before I conclude. But it's an explicit measure on my part that we're going to operate rationally in the years ahead on the individual project, and then I have to bend to make sure that we don't manage to keep the correct percentage distribution between the individual states in the individual road planning period or the individual year. But in my view, national economics is right, and we will get the most out of the money available on the road budget for that reason. Then they get the states that have to wait a little, rather get back their bet a year or a period later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e362	There will be follow-up questions – Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e365	In Narvik at least two holes are not in use. One goes into a tunnel, and the other goes out of a tunnel. According to the information I have, only lighting and some asphalting are left to get that tunnel completed. Now I do not expect the Council of State to be able to respond to this particular project, but it must be clear that there is a lack of planning and poor financial management when you see that there are so many projects that are half-finished. My question is: What does the Council of State intend to do to ensure that planning and financial management in the future will be such that such projects are completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e374	I justified some of it in my response to Thore Aksel Nistad in the future, namely that in the future we will operate the projects more rationally than we have done so far. We have to be willing to look at the redistribution and distribution of the states in order to be able to operate rationally. But over a longer period, everyone should have theirs. In the case of the two holes in Narvik that are referred to, at least I know one of them. In other words, we're going to get started. We're going to solve that issue – take the challenge that lies there. We're going to be able to get rational progress and make sure that what happened doesn't happen again. We're going to complete the project continuously. But I must remember, after all, that these are allocation issues, which both government, department and big business have in their hands. In other words, the Directorate of Roads and those who are going to do the job is intended to stay within the appropriations available at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e381	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e384	I have a question for the Minister of State. Today we have 14 000 asylum seekers and refugees in reception, and we know that at least 10,000 of them are to be settled in the municipalities. The integration and residence of refugees and asylum seekers who have received a residence permit is the responsibility of the Minister of Municipal Affairs. In the Labour Party, we agree that we should accept refugees and asylum seekers who need protection, but we do not agree that we should place them in a reception for several years, as it has now become. This is totally unsustainable for all parties. At least then integration will not be easier, rather more difficult. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs now acknowledges that they have not been able to cope with the increase in the number of asylum seekers, and a report from State Consultant shows that poor organisation causes human suffering to asylum seekers and greater costs to society. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State intend to do, both in the short term and in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e397	It's true, as the representative Eye says, that we have major challenges in this area. 1999 has been a particularly challenging year, given that many refugees and asylum seekers have come here – the 8 000-9 000 referred to – in addition to the 6 000 we have received from Kosovo. The representation we have seen of the Statskonsult's recommendation and of the Statskonsult's report in the media is partly unsound. It is suggested, among other things: where UDI is to discuss with the municipalities how the settlement is to be distributed and that UDI should have the power to impose residence on the municipalities. The last thing I disagree with. We have now initiated a close dialogue with the KS in order to improve the settlement and distribution of asylum seekers once the application has been examined, so that we can ensure a rapid settlement. I fully agree that long stays in reception are unfortunate for the individual involved, and not least that society incurs extra costs. That is why we have taken initiatives to reorganise in several areas. From 1 July we transfer the responsibility for questioning from the police to the UDI for a more comprehensive treatment. From January 2001, we transfer the overall responsibility for refugee and asylum policy to the Ministry of Local Affairs for getting everything into one department. We also reorganise the way UDI works, which is to ensure a faster procedure. However, the starting point is how to get a faster settlement, get better integration and get people to work faster. So there we are now in a close dialogue with the Local Governments' Central Association, in order to ensure this in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e406	The Labour Party agrees that we should not oblige municipalities to accept refugees and asylum seekers. We know that municipalities are struggling with very poor finances, and many people are not able to cope with increased expenses. The main problem in municipalities is perhaps to provide housing – housing is currently very expensive. A few weeks ago, the Council of State went out into the newspapers — quite high on the track — and promised a power cap for the municipalities. This could have led the municipalities to take a power cap to receive several refugees. But now in the Questionnaire, the Council of State is much more spooky, now it's no longer about a power cut, but now he's actually saying that the municipalities have to adapt the operation and organisation to the economy. And then my question to the Council of State is, is this a signal to the municipalities that they can't expect a better economy that could give them the basis to take a force to accept refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e413	Support for integration and settlement has remained largely silent from 1992 to 1993 until 1998, when it was lifted for the first time in a long time. It was also raised by NOK 10 000 in the current year's budget, i.e. for 2000, so the government has taken over two years to step up its support. It's still lower than what the municipality's Central Association thinks should be the framework. Therefore, this is also part of the discussion we have with KS, namely to get the best possible overview of the cost picture, both in relation to Norwegian education and in relation to housing aid. But it's not just about the economy here either, and I insist – of course – that the municipalities have a responsibility to adapt their operations to the budgets they have adopted. It's part of municipal autonomy. In this area, too, municipalities actually have a very large room for action, and it turns out that some municipalities are coming out with a good result. In fact, it turns out that in those municipalities where good policies can be achieved in terms of integration and in relation to getting people to work quickly, there are adequate support schemes, while others have problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e420	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e424	The Minister of Local Affairs is talking only about outsourcing in municipalities. I am very pleased that he makes clear something we have requested from the Government for a long time, namely that it does not come up with any instructions to Norwegian municipalities. Here one will respect municipal autonomy – I ask for a message if I have misinterpreted the municipal minister, but I interpreted his previous answers like this. Has not the Minister of State and the Government intended to do something about the other side, namely stop the influx of asylum seekers into the country? It was 9 000 last year and 8 000 years ago, and it is actually up to – with some intensification of Norwegian legislation, the law on foreigners, as well as its practice – to send out a signal in the big world that Norway is no longer the light and good economic country that we today have a reputation for being, but that we are starting to tighten up as all other European countries do. This will, of course, reduce the access to asylum recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e431	Firstly, it can be confirmed that the Government does not intend to use coercion against the municipalities. This is part of municipal autonomy, and the municipalities themselves should be free to choose whether to have such a residence or not. But on the other hand, we intend to make it easier for the municipalities to take that responsibility. We depend on getting a residence in the municipalities – all those who receive a residence permit will live in a municipality at some point. And then to the last part of the question: Yes, there has been a strong increase in the influx of refugees and asylum seekers. Anyone who comes legally has the same right to have their case tried in relation to stay. When such a large number comes, it takes time to investigate who has legitimate reason to come, and who has the right to stay and protection. There is some background for us to have had a strong increase in the duration of treatment. Other countries, too, have experienced an increase in inflows, and of course this is because we see increasing conflicts both in our own continent and in other parts of the world. More and more people are being persecuted, subjected to oppression and to gross abuse, gross violence, which causes people to escape their country. There is a responsibility, a social responsibility, for seeing who has the right to stay – and then I say the right to stay!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e438	Next follow-up question - Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e441	I would like to go back to the starting point of the main question, which is that there is a very difficult situation for those who stay very long in a reception. This also makes integration work increasingly difficult, because it has been through a very depressing reception and situation. In the past, from the Right and the Advance Party, we have raised the question of getting an assessment of the Swedish system, where not everyone is necessarily in a reception that is as isolating as we have today, but where one also has the opportunity to be privately located with friends and acquaintances during the reception period, while the asylum application is being investigated. Will the Council of State come back with an assessment — such as: Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad, a minister, promised to join – by the Swedish system and the possibility of using it? At least in Sweden, it has shown much better integration results for those who live in private than for those who live in a reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e448	Staying in reception is an offer and not a coercion in Norway, so that those who come here have the opportunity to live with friends, acquaintances and family in the course of proceedings. The problem with the Swedish system is that it has led to a unilateral accumulation in the big cities. There is no system for the distribution of asylum seekers who have been granted a residence permit, just as we do in Norway and Denmark. This is a system that I think is very unfortunate to implement here with us, because it will lead to a strong accumulation in the big cities, especially in Oslo, where we already see that there is a great migration from municipalities around the country, and it will increase the movement here in an unfortunate way. That is why we want to have the best possible dialogue with the municipalities in order to achieve the best possible distribution, and to avoid such a system as one has in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e453	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e456	Long stays at reception are harmful, people get sick of it. The safest thing we can do is get people a home, a job and give them training. The municipal councils should do that, says the municipal minister, but at the same time they should adapt to the financial framework they now have. Before today, we have heard that the local government sector is now running a deficit of NOK 6-8 billion. That means that the Council of State asks the municipalities to magic when they are also going to do this in a much better way than what they are doing today. Does the Council of State see that there is an undeniable need for the local government sector to have an increased framework to tackle these important tasks in order to provide housing, work and training for refugees and asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e463	I will be allowed to draw attention to the fact that a separate calculation committee has been set up that reviews the costs incurred by municipalities in the settlement of refugees and asylum seekers, who go through the costs of Norwegian training, etc., and who each year provide figures for the actual costs of this. It is true that the proportion covered by these expenditures by the State is slightly lower than the real cost of the municipalities on average, and we have increased support over the last two budgets to reach the real cost level in the municipalities. But I would also like to remind you that refugees and asylum seekers are not just a cost to the municipalities. Very many municipalities are pursuing a good housing and integration policy, which means that refugees and asylum seekers who move quickly come to work and are, in fact, a resource for the municipality, as we want them to be. However, what has been a problem particularly in 1999 is that the duration of treatment has been very long. It has taken a very long time before the inquiry has been carried out and before the application has been processed, and it has also caused the settlement to slow down. There we are now, as I said in my main response, in the course of extensive action. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e470	Time's up. Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e475	I have a question for the Council of State, Enoxen. The government has not unexpectedly authorised the purchase of Smoke in Aker RGI. This decision has also been put at the back of the Central Party Councils, albeit perhaps further behind than the Councils of State of the other parties. It may seem that the Central Party has had two points of view on this matter, and at the same time. At least two points of view have been put forward. So you've been for, and you've been against, at the same time. The fact that the government did not give in to the pressure of the head of the nutrition committee, Morten Lund – also he from the Central Party – may have actually contributed to smoking reporting migration to Norway after 20 years abroad. My question to the State Council of Enoxsen, who is also the head of the Center Party, is: What is the position of the State Council of Enoxens, and to the extent that the central party's real view of this corporation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e486	It should be well known from a long debate on this matter that we have been detained in the Central Party and have had a rather restrictive view of granting a concession to the acquisition of Aker RGI by Smoke. The government has made its decision, and the Central Party Councils are also fully behind it. The internal discussions of the Government are probably to the extent that most others are not. What is the point is that the Government is united in its decision. Strict demands have been made for the acquisition award, and there is also the government behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e492	In today's Business Life on 3 February, the head of the Business Committee, Morten Lund, of the Central Party, asserts that his party considers the decision of the Government to be 'unlucky'. It must at least mean that he is not directly excited about what the Enox and Government have done. Since the Act of Acquisition entered into force in 1995, the Ministry of Industry has dealt with 1 300 individual cases, all of which have been approved. The Chair of the Economic and Social Committee claims in today's business: ‘But if the law is not used in this case, it is difficult to see when it was to be used at all.’ In his view, the entire acquisition law can equally be terminated. Does the Council of State share such a position, and does he want it to continue to deal with all these matters? The government has also raised the issue of a simpler Norway, and in that case is his position in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e504	The President may wish to point out carefully that the Council of State, Mr Enoksen, is here as the Council of State in the Ministry of Local Affairs, but understands that the question is addressed to Enoch as party leader. This just to reflect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e507	President, it may be a timely reminder. The Acquisition Act should be used and the Government intends to follow up the requirements laid down in the Acquisition Act and the additional requirements imposed in the context of acquisition proceedings in order to ensure that the terms and conditions imposed are followed by those acquired in each case. And so I think – quite briefly – that in all parties there should be a basis for having a discussion about terms and conditions for acquiring these types of businesses. The government has taken its stand, it's the government's firm stand. Very strict conditions have been imposed in relation to this acquisition authorisation granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e514	Then we move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e517	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. I refer to a look-up in the evening post yesterday, where it is stated that the Land Association of Technology companies is very dissatisfied with the Spanish Bazan repurchase agreement in connection with the construction of the new frigates to NOK 12 billion. Of course, I am aware that these negotiations are now in the final phase, but I still ask the following questions: Will the Council of State guarantee that the repurchase agreements to which Norway is going to negotiate will be satisfactory and cover the requirement of 100 pst. repurchase, as the Government itself has committed, and to which the Storting has joined?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e526	The government has to do everything it can to meet all the prerequisites for frigate purchase that we have made and that the Storting has also agreed to. One of the requirements is 100 pst. buy-backs, and work is done very hard. And before the whole package is in place, that is. the number of frigates, fully equipped, repurchased and indirect repurchases and guarantees, there will be no finalisation of the case. So my answer is short and good: yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e531	I thank you for your answer. It has been claimed by the German and English providers that the two competitors have not been equalised in the negotiations. Why have not the new offers from Blohm+Voss and British Aerospace been evaluated? And are there any reports or signals that there are going to be 12.4 billion exceedances in the Bazan framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e538	I will first refer to the magnification that was of this frigate matter. There was the agreement to the government's negotiating arrangements, and they were to negotiate with the assumed best offer at the time. There were three offers. Nor-Escort withdrew, and Bazan was then considered to have the best offer. It has been negotiated with Bazan, and if you do not come ashore, you will negotiate with the second best provider, i.e. Blohm+Voss. Another principle was to negotiate with a main contractor, and Bazan had two weapons suppliers: Lockheed Martin and British Aerospace. Bazan chose Lockheed Martin himself, and then it would be strange if the government went in to negotiate with the company that the main contractor had rejected. When asked about Blohm+Voss, my answer would be the same: we negotiate with one at a time. So if the negotiations do not come to an end, we will continue to negotiate with the next one. The offers we now have are next to 1 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e547	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e552	There are some changes to the list of questions set out, and in this context the President refers to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Food and Trade, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade representative Steinar Bastesen, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been away. Questions 4 and 5 from the representatives Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and Dag Danielsen of the Minister for Foreign Affairs respectively have been withdrawn. Question 11, from the representative, Ms Beevivi, to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative, Einar Johansen. Questions 21 and 24, from the representatives of Unn Aarrestad and Bendiks H. Arnesen, respectively, to the Minister for Social Affairs, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has departed. Questions 22 and 23, from the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik and John I. Alvheim, respectively, to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs, who has been removed. Question 29, from the representative Signe Eye to the Minister of Labour and Administration, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e577	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘According to the Government’s professional body for the renewal, conversion and efficiency of central government, Statskonsult, an obligation should be imposed on municipalities to receive refugees. If this were to be followed, it would represent a strong intervention in municipal self-government and would hardly contribute to increasing the benevolence of municipalities in the settlement of refugees. What is the opinion of the Council of State on the proposal of the Statskonsult?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e586	I have basically already answered a fairly similar question in the oral question procedure. And as I said in an answer there, the rendering of the Statskonsult's recommendation is somewhat unsound. State Consultant proposes, inter alia: UDI must discuss with the municipalities how to allocate the need for housing that UDI should have the power to oblige municipalities to settle refugees if the municipalities do not agree to settle enough The recommendations of the State Consultant must be seen in the light of the current situation. We have almost 14,000 residents in state reception, and there is nothing to suggest significant changes in the number of asylum applications. The current year, 8 000 municipal areas are needed for the settlement of refugees, but the municipalities have so far accepted about half. This leads, as I have also said earlier today, to the fact that we are receiving more and more residence time, and that is unfortunate for the individual refugee, it slows down and hampers the efforts of the municipalities to integrate, and for the state, it means great expenditure to no avail. Everybody's losing on this. Taking into account the fact that the needs for housing in the next few years may be up to today’s needs, we will need to assess which schemes can best meet the objective of rapid and good housing for those to stay in Norway. State consultant points out that it is important to arrive at arrangements where countries and municipalities can discuss the distribution of refugees, but where the state can decide the distribution if the concerned do not reach an agreement within a given date. I have initiated a dialogue with the KS, and I trust that the municipalities will be involved and take the responsibility necessary for us to jointly find solutions that are satisfactory for all parties. The total number of refugees to be settled is a result of the refugee situation internationally and our obligations under the Refugee Convention, and must be a national responsibility, not just the sum of municipal decisions. The question is how to distribute those who have been accommodated between municipalities. Statskonsult points to the importance that the municipalities themselves should be heard in terms of number, and I fully agree with that. At the same time, ensuring a sufficient number of places is a major challenge. I would like the municipalities themselves to have a more active role in this distribution, and do not see forcedness as a solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e604	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am pleased with, but something else I had not expected either. I am of course familiar with the fact that this question is not entirely new, and that the Council of State so far indicated that he was skeptical about the forced settlement of refugees in the municipalities, and it is to be honoured by the Council of State. However, such a drastic proposal, all the time it has been aired, just underlines the fact that the problem of Norwegian asylum and refugee policy is becoming very serious. We simply welcome many asylum seekers and refugees in this country. The thing is, UDI will force the municipalities to accept and settle refugees. Does this not suggest that some desperation is now spreading and that the situation is coming out of control in the case of Norwegian refugee and asylum policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e611	I think we need to see the proposal that has been put forward, given that, in the year that has passed, the UDI has been put to very great tests. There have been an unusually large number of refugees and asylum seekers who have come to the country both in 1998 and 1999, as well as Norway's heavy commitments to the conflict in Kosovo, where we received 6,080 refugees. It has put this organisation to great tests, which, in my opinion, they have managed to solve in a fully satisfactory way. It's done an impressive job from this whole system in the year that's gone. It's a challenge to get a fast and secure settlement. It is a challenge to have a rapid procedure in all parts of the foreign administration. This is done deliberately and actively by the Government to ensure that those who are granted a residence in Norway will be able to settle as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e618	I once again thank the Council of State for the answer, but once again I would like to stress from my side that my view is that Norway is pursuing a liberal asylum and refugee policy. In my view, it is the government's own policy in this area that creates the ever-increasing pressure for asylum against Norway. I believe that a more restrictive line from the Norwegian side would result in the number of asylum seekers falling rapidly. My conviction is that the problems we are now seeing regarding the settlement of refugees outside the municipalities clearly indicate a need for a changed Norwegian policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e623	Now, to the extent that part of the supplementary question that was now raised lies within the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. But let me say that what's happened in recent years is far more an expression of what's happening internationally than it's an expression of national policies. There is an increasing number of conflicts around the world, where more and more people are being chased for refuge, where more and more people are being subjected to oppression and violence in a way that makes them seek protection in other countries. Not only Norway is experiencing an increased influx of refugees and asylum seekers. We have clear international obligations in relation to how we should treat and how we should accept refugees. Those obligations are intended by the Government to follow up. It's also being done. Those who have a reason for stay shall receive it and those who do not have a reason to stay in the country shall have their application processed in a satisfactory manner before any refusal is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e640	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e646	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e649	I have a question for the Minister of Trade: ‘In the event of the ‘Sleipner’ accident, it has emerged as a fact that, from the start of passenger traffic, the ship has been sailing with life-saving appliances which have not been tested in approximately the weather conditions of the evening of the accident. The Council of State sees it as a problem that a long-term passenger vessel sails on a dispensation without testing the life-saving equipment, and in that case what does the Council of State intend to do with the problem?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e658	Before I go into the answer to the question from the representative Bastesen, I would like to refer to the special accident commission that was set up after the “Sleipner” accident. It is up to the Commission to give a thorough review of the course of events and to clarify the causes of the accident. Since the investigation is still ongoing, I would like to be reluctant to give opinions that can contribute to speculation about the causes. With regard to the representative Bastisen’s question, I would first like to state that the speedboat ‘Sleipner’ did not sail on an exemption, but that a temporary operating restriction was imposed, which meant that the ship could not operate when the weather gave a significant wave height above 1 m. In this context, it is important to be aware that restrictions can be imposed on the scope of all ships. These restrictions may include, inter alia: include sea area, cargo capacity, number of passengers, etc. In addition, for all speedboats built in accordance with today’s legislation, restrictions on the wave height at which they can operate are imposed, based on a sound assessment of the ship’s strength, manoeuvrability and life-saving equipment. The shipowner and on-board management are responsible for the compliance of the ship with the requirements of maritime safety and, of course, are also responsible for complying with all publicly imposed operating restrictions. Nor is it usually considered as a problem that a ship is operating with temporary limitations over a certain period of time. It must be stressed, however, that it is taken as a natural condition that the company acts within a legal framework and complies with all the conditions laid down. A temporary certificate, such as ‘Sleipner’ was provided, shall be issued for a period of up to six months. The scheme is established for practical reasons and is known and used by all maritime nations. The reason is that during the final phase of the construction period a number of tests and inspections must always be carried out and the completion of the documentation thereon always takes some time. In addition, a check is carried out that all conditions have been checked by completion of the reports of the inspectors and that they are sent to the directorate for review and compliance with other documentation on the ship. I would like to emphasise again that the issue of temporary certificates is based on a concrete assessment of what can be considered appropriate for each individual case. This also includes testing of the life-saving equipment on board. It is a prerequisite that all regulations are documented, that all central drawings and calculations for the ship have been processed and that all inspections have been carried out. It is also a prerequisite that shipowners and on-board management comply with the restrictions laid down to ensure that the ship is navigable for the voyage into which it is engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e671	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that there is an investigation commission in turn, but it is an undeniable fact that the boat sailed without the life-saving appliances being tested. The life jackets, for example: is unusable and has therefore been imposed on all passenger vessels to replace the life jackets. It's awfully suspicious. I stand here with four newspaper headlines about ferries that have been stopped after the Maritime Directorate has gone to control. 13 ferries were stopped for safety testing, it says to read in Today's Business of February 4. This testifies to a nonchalance on the part of the Directorate for Maritime Affairs. They do not do the job for which they have been paid, and I wonder if the trust in the Maritime Directorate is now significantly weakened. What does the Council of State intend to do to restore confidence in the Directorate of Maritime Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e680	I would like to remind you once again that the starting point for the question and the supplementary question asked is the ‘Sleipner’ accident. With regard to that matter, there is an investigation to ensure that all conditions are put on the table, and there is a certainty that such tragic accidents will be prevented later. In the case of the Maritime Directorate, it is not within their normal supervision to verify that the shipping company and its on-board management comply with operating restrictions on a ship. In practice, there will also be an impossibility, since the Directorate is the control authority for approximately 600 to 700 passenger vessels. These operate on a daily basis in the Norwegian coast, and it will not be possible to have continuous control of all operational restrictions. But as I underlined in my main response, the whole system rests on the fact that there are proper permits, that the permits are known, and that they are followed up, so that responsibility is placed at all stages of the system. The system is based simply on the fact that normal conditions are based on people acting with confidence and responsibility, and that, as a background, it is also possible to react and correct conditions that are wrong. And what's wrong with the "Sleipner" accident will come to the table as a result of the work of the investigation commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e687	I thank you again for the answer. I'm not going to hang up just in the ‘Sleipner’ accident – I'm going to clarify it. No, the problem is that a passenger ship around the country is sailing around with equipment approved by the Directorate for Maritime Affairs, which has not been tested and tested under the weather conditions in which they are to operate. That's the problem, and I haven't got a real answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e694	Let's start from where the representative started, namely in the "Sleipner" accident. It was the case that the directorate here made an assessment of all relevant matters before granting an operating authorisation for the ship. This also includes the fact that the life-saving appliances of the vessel were tested in Australia only for wave heights below 1 m. Therefore, on the basis of an overall assessment, ‘Sleipner’ was authorised to operate as long as the wave height was within this limit. The permission was temporary and provided that the rescue arrangements were to be given a hard weather test within a short time. It must be assumed that the shipping company and on-board management operate within the public authorizations granted. It was therefore assessed as sound in the context of ‘Sleipner’. This is the underlying system, and it is this system which is also the starting point for monitoring the safety of ships. That system is being tested and reviewed in connection with the accident commission, and I am absolutely sure that then there will be a flaw in the system, it will be followed up by all the responsible authorities later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e721	These questions have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e727	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘The Institute for Transport Economics has in its Report No: 434/1999 assessed the unfortunate outcome of the strong progress in car charges. The report concludes, inter alia, that a reduction in fees of 7 pst. will provide a socio-economic benefit of about 500 million. crowns, while improving the average impact safety by 6.2 pst. In addition, environmental emissions will be greatly reduced. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the TØI report is properly examined and presented to the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e736	The one-off charge on the car was last changed from 1 January 1996. The fee was then changed to vary according to weight, engine capacity and engine power. In the conversion process, the aim was to maintain an equal distribution profile to that of the former value added tax, while at the same time providing for the minimum amount of additional charges to be levied on the environment and safety equipment. In addition, it was considered that the fee should be calculated on the basis of the most objective and low-manipulable criteria and that the costs of administering the levy should be kept to the lowest possible level. The evaluation presented in the 1998 budget also suggested that the objectives of the conversion were largely met. The representative Kenneth Svendsen refers to the report «Alternative systems for the calculation of the one-off charge on passenger cars» by the Transport Economic Institute. In my opinion, the report confirms that the current one-off fee system is very close to an optimal charging system, provided that the income from the one-off fee is maintained at the current level. It is estimated that the maximum socio-economic benefit of changing the system is 75 million. kr, or less than 1 pst. the income generated by the non-recurring charge in 1999. The representative Svendsen points to another one-off scheme, which in the report of the Transport Economic Institute is estimated at 700-800 million. kr. In this alternative system, the basis for calculation is weight and fuel consumption. Although this is not the opportunity to go into detail on the results of the report, I would nevertheless like to discuss some points. The estimated socio-economic gain of 500 million. The main reason for this is that consumers are better off by reducing charges in general. However, it has not been taken into account that a reduction in car charges must be covered by increasing other taxes and taxes, which also involve socio-economic costs. In the case of environmentally harmful emissions, Svendsen must have misunderstood. The report shows that emissions will actually be higher in this option than in the current system. This is because the car purchases are turning more towards larger cars with a larger engine. The cost of increased emissions will be deducted from the socio-economic cost calculation. Questions can also be asked about the distribution effects of the overall reduction in car charges and where larger cars are purchased than before. In addition, there is a high degree of uncertainty associated with the estimates of potential gains in the event of improved collision safety. The TØI report points to conditions that may lead to these gains being overestimated. The administrative aspects of conversion have not been assessed in the report. There are currently no fuel consumption standards in the type approval for several vehicle categories, and any conversion as outlined in the report could therefore only apply to passenger cars. In that case, the fee for other groups of charges had to be refunded, since the charge can no longer be calculated as a share of the car charge. Different calculation bases will provide a much more inconspicuous charging system than the current system. In the light of what has been said, I do not see any reason to go into the TØI report at this stage. I would also like to point out that the department is working on the agreed conversion of the one-off fee from the import fee to the registration fee. It would be unfortunate to assess changes to the one-off fee system before a change to the registration fee has been put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e753	In the context of the 1998 State Budget, the Progress Party received a note which instructed the Ministry to go through the pages of this TØI report. The conclusion of the ministry was in many ways contrary to what the report concluded. What the report says, as I see it, is that you want to achieve significant security benefits by allowing people to choose more of the car they want, and people to choose slightly larger cars. It is clear that this will make a significant impact on costs, among others. to the hospital services. I see that the minister won't take it up again, and he owes, among other things. on the conversion from the import fee to the registration fee. Of course, I am willing to wait until that conversion has been up in Stortinget, and that you come back to it afterwards. I want to ask if that will be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e760	I do not want to rule out that once in a future – it is uncertain how far forward in time – it is appropriate to convert the one-off fee to focus more on fuel consumption, which in that case will have to replace the two engine components of the day. But at least I don't think that the time is now, firstly because we're doing a different conversion, from the import fee to the registration fee, as I said, and secondly, there's significant uncertainty about these effects, for example. whether this improved impact safety is actually as high as Kenneth Svendsen points out. And then it's a practical problem, and that's that it's just for passenger cars you have today's standard information about fuel consumption. And as I mentioned in my first answer, if you were to switch to a new system just for passenger cars, it would mess up the system for other car groups. But I don't want to deny that once in the future it can be right to convert into a system based on weight and fuel consumption instead of the three components we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e770	I want to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘The customs regulations of the day say, among other things, that 200 litres of diesel can be taken free into Norway without paying any additional charge. Can the Council of State consider raising this amount to, for example, 600 litres in order to simplify the work of lorry drivers and customs officers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e779	As part of the tax-free quota, the amount of fuel contained in the normal fuel tanks of the motor vehicle, but not more than 200 litres, can be imported free of charge today. For buses, the limit is 600 litres. Buses usually do not have tanks that exceed this particular bus limit, so that illegal entry here does not represent a problem. However, on most other heavier vehicles the tank size is more than 200 litres, usually 400-600 litres, but often even larger. If the maximum limit is increased to 600 litres also for trucks, this would result in the tax-free quota being more consistent with the actual size of the tank. This could facilitate the control, and one would have a uniform limit on how to deal with buses and other vehicles. However, I am of the opinion that an increase in the permitted quantity of diesel/petrol will have adverse consequences for Norwegian carriers who are not normally operating outside the country's borders, and that control concerns cannot offset this consideration. I have asked the Tollvesen to intensify the control effort against heavier vehicles with a view to detecting the illegal introduction of, among other things. fuel. On 1 December 1999, a new regulation on simplified presentation in case of minor cases of illegal imports entered into force. In the past, simplified presentations could only be issued by Customs at airports and ferry terminals. The new regulation means that Customs can now also apply to border crossings via Sweden, Finland and Russia. As a result, the customs authorities have been given a far more effective sanction against the illegal introduction of fuel. It must be assumed that this will also lead to a greater awareness and respect for the rules in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e790	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Norway has a lot of full-time border crossings, but at the same time we also have a lot of people who aren't, unfortunately, and it would have been a great job to control all of these at all times of the day. I am pleased that the Council of State has asked the Customs Authority to intensify this control. It's positive, and it's good. So for the lack of similarity between trucks and buses, and here I put a big question mark. Why should there be a difference between these vehicles – and then I am thinking about truck/bus – depending on the size of the diesel tank? There can be no good reason for the discrimination that one group, i.e. the trucks, can consume 200 litres free of duty, while the other can consume 600 litres. I guess this has to be a little bit weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e799	As you know, I recently had a conversation with the Norwegian Lastebileier Association and a number of other associations in connection with the turbulence that we have had about diesel charges recently. Here it was clear from the industry itself that it considered it a major problem with regard to the lorry industry, which only operates domestically, that both Norwegians who drive abroad and non-residents who come to Norway may have large quantities of fuel in addition to the 200 litres. And they greatly appreciated that the control measures will now be intensified to ensure that this 200-litre limit is observed. I heard about the news this morning that there has been an action this morning on Svinesund, where more people had taken too much fuel with them, which has consequences for them. When it comes to the inequality between the bus and the truck, I see that it's not very logical. It's a rule that's been there for a long time. But if you were to consider going to non-discrimination, it feels more right for me to give buses the same limit as you have so far had for trucks, i.e. 200 litres, instead of going the other way, with the consequences it would have for Norwegian transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e816	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have also checked this with the truck industry, among other things. The NLF for Hedmark and Uppland, and they are very positive about increasing the number of litres, so that the cars that drive in the same area as the foreign cars should have the same rules. Of course you have that with the 200 liters, so that's not that, but it's the control that you see missing. Does the Council of State think that all foreign trailers entering Norway have less than 200 litres on the tank or that they stop and pay the fee for the number of litres left?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e825	I have to say that I am a little surprised if it is such that Per Roar Bredvold's contact with the truck industry shows that the industry itself is interested in increasing the limit of 200 litres. This is contrary to what the truck industry said in the meeting with me recently in the Ministry of Finance. The natural explanation for those who only operate domestically is that they cannot be accepted that those who also drive abroad — whether they are Norwegians or non-residents, because that is the same rule — can take a large amount of fuel across borders, as long as fuel prices are so different in Norway and the rest of the world. So it's clear that this control task that's here, I'm going to admit is pretty big. But I think that if it first becomes known that the control is now intensified – some are being taken, and some have to pay to bring too much fuel – I think it will be disciplining and that more will gradually have me the right quantities. I'm not so blue-eyed that I think it's been quite common so far that you've only had up to 200 liters, but on the contrary, I have a strong suspicion that a lot of people have had significantly larger quantities, but we have to try to put an end to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e835	I want to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘Rally cars with black signs have to pay a full annual fee and registration fee even though these cars are only allowed to be used for rallying. Driving other than this is therefore illegal. Can the Council of State consider removing or reducing this charge, as many practitioners find it very unreasonable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e844	The annual fee includes the vehicle under 12000 kg registered in the motor vehicle register per. 1 January. Unlike pure rail vehicles, a rally vehicle is also used on public roads. Therefore, the rally vehicle is to be registered in the motor vehicle register and thereby be obliged to pay the annual fee. The annual fee is a purely fiscal fee. There is no direct link between the costs of use and the charge itself. Therefore, the limited use of a rally vehicle on public roads is not an argument that a rally vehicle should be exempted or paid a reduced annual fee. Re-registration fee is paid for the re-registration of motor vehicles previously registered in Norway. This also applies to the re-registration of rally cars. The re-registration fee is levied instead of VAT on the placing on the market of used vehicles. The re-registration tax can therefore be said to be a simplified form of VAT collection. I see no strong reason to exempt a rally vehicle from the registration fee. Finally, I would like to point out that the rally vehicle is exempt from the obligation to pay a one-off import fee. The one-off charge represents a large proportion of the taxes levied on car rental in Norway, and therefore the rally vehicle has been given a great advantage in terms of charges. In view of this, I see little reason to propose additional tax reductions for a rally vehicle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e853	Yes, it wasn't much to shout for when you see with rallying islands and charging islands, and it might not have been expected either. But I want to draw some parallels. In the case of an annual fee, the difference is whether you have a private car, whether you have a motorcycle, or whether you have a caravan, for example. Could it be possible to view it that way? The same applies to the re-registration fee, where there is also a difference. We differentiate between different types of vehicles, while on rally cars we have the highest rate on both. I also want to draw some parallels to this with veteran cars. When you have a veteran car, 30 years of age or older, you can also take it in freely. It does not have a one-off fee, it does not have an annual fee, nor does it have a registration fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e862	If the aim is to stimulate the use of rally cars in Norway as much as possible, I understand that it is possible to find approaches and comparisons that allow you to explain or defend further the cost of charging. However, as my main response showed, there is already a favourable treatment in the case of rally cars, namely exemption from a one-off charge, which is actually the maximum tax burden on the purchase of cars. As I also said in my main response, I do not think it is reasonable to assess wear on the road etc. in the case of the annual fee, because it is a purely fiscal charge. And when the registration fee is instead of a VAT, I do not see there that there should be any very good reason to treat the turnover of a rally vehicle in any way other than the turnover of other vehicles in the same category.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e869	I tried to invite the Council of State to think a little about veteran cars, as I finally mentioned. So in the case of that one-off charge, these are cars that are taken in the same way as a rally car, but they do not have a registration fee, they do not have an annual fee, and they also have a much lower insurance fee, but the last one is to be forgotten. These are cars –1970 models or older – which have a reasonably good standard and can be used every day, 24 hours a day – it can be buses, trucks and private cars – versus a rally car, which may be used for a few hours a day. Quite a lot of us see a certain difference there, and a difference in charges that is therefore unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e874	As I said in the previous additional answer, I see that it is possible to argue that the charges could be further facilitated if it is a very important goal to stimulate the use of rally cars as much as possible. I have nothing against the rally sport, I will not be misunderstood in that direction, but I also see no reason why the charging system should stimulate the use of rally cars as much as possible. I think there are other things we should in case use tax relief on than to stimulate the best possible rally car purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e882	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State Dørum: ‘There is a sharp increase in shop cranes and theft in the country, especially in the capital, where there has been a triple in the last 2 years. It's more often rough with widespread use of weapons and knives. The level of trade and the chancellors of the shops are startled by developments. Is the Council of State as alarmed at the development of the commercial industry, and what will the Council of State do to the locusts and the general wave of ransacks?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e891	A marked increase in number was recorded in 1999. For the country as a whole, the total number of rounds increased from 1,514 reviews in 1998 to 1,967 reviews in 1999. This represents an increase of 453 reviews, or 29.9 pst. A more detailed review of the notifications shows that there is a particular need for business, service stations and kiosks to increase. A little over half of the cranes happen in Oslo, while the others are distributed across the country. Oslo police districts have conducted a survey of data related to ran committed in Oslo in 1999. The survey shows that the number of perpetrators under the age of 15 has increased from 14 pst. until 25 pst. since 1998. This means that the Ransman is getting younger and younger. This group requires measures other than those against criminals who increasingly run banks, post offices and money transport. Combating criminality is a priority area for the police and for the Minister of Justice. The government presented St.meld in December 1999. No 17 for 1999-2000 – Action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency. One of the main objectives of the Communication is enhanced cooperation and coordination between different public bodies. With regard to the specific negative developments in Oslo, I have taken the initiative to cooperate between the Municipality of Oslo, the District of Oslo Police and the Ministry of Justice. In order to strengthen cooperation between schools, police, child protection and other agencies, we have jointly come to a number of concrete fields of action. In the fight against violence and violence in public places, there is further reason to highlight the police’s new access to carry out a visit under certain conditions to investigate whether a person carries weapons, as well as ongoing attempts at video surveillance. The National Attorney General has instructed the police to give priority to the investigation of unexplained traffic. It's important that these branches, which are very professionally performed and where large values are taken away, are clarified. Additional funds have been allocated for this work. Of the other measures specifically aimed at combating rane, I would like to mention: mention: The General Organisation of Trade and Services and the Ministry of Justice have jointly discussed measures aimed at preventing trade and services. In Oslo, a testing scheme was carried out in 1998 where businesses that have implemented measures — physical security, training of staff and aftercare — can be certified as ‘safe against traffic’ by the police. In 1999, the Ministry of Justice took the initiative to set up such a certification scheme on a national basis. In 1999, the system of contact committees for prevention of pollution was also reintroduced. The task of the selection is to promote information development and to provide a forum for crime prevention, including the development of methods to prevent ransacks, and to focus on post-criminal protection. We hope that this effort will bring good results, but I would like to stress that, just like the representative in his question, I am taking development very seriously, and I am concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e917	I must say I am very pleased with the answer and initiative of the Council of State. When he establishes that it is a priority area, I expect, and probably more with me, that if the initiative is good enough, then results will be obtained. The negative trend towards shops, kiosks and gas stations is a serious threat to industry and to employees in the industry. There's the government council and I have the same opinion. Shops now happen so often that the problems and consequences around this do not receive the attention that a shop crane received earlier, and not everyone understands adequately what the stress is on the job. I would like to ask the Council of State a question: can the Council of State imagine what this negative development is actually due to?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e924	I don't want to speculate about it, but it could be that, for example. increasing efforts to combat violence and the crime of profits in general, which has led to a drastic decline in gross house - to - home thieves, has led to a shift in some of the crime. It's a speculation, and I don't want to conclude with it. But I'm looking with the police and now I'm looking at the data. I have just received a report, which I have not pulled into, which analyses the results from Oslo. Actually, we can divide it by 2. We can talk about children and young people, as there is reason to look very seriously at, and as I commented on in my post. And then it's the completely professionally executed rane, which we have to count on is organized crime. I have a deep understanding of that representative mentioning how people in stores and kiosks feel it. That's why I also focused on the relationship with the commercial industry. I think one of the answers is to stick to the police's line of zero tolerance, that is. If you act publicly in a way that is not accepted, without me going into detail, we will react to it. In other words, we show that we don't accept that you show up in any way. So, of course, it's absolutely essential that part of the zero tolerance is that the police are present when it happens and where it happens. I myself believe that, along with the enforcement of the provisions of the Arms Act and the prohibition of carrying knives in public places, this is an instrument that can help us fight the rampage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e933	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the Council of State will place further emphasis on getting a visible police force, and that is well needed. 20 years ago, the store crane was a sensation. Now it's a generality. Smuggling and organised crime, on which the Council of State was involved, and more violence and shooting contribute to facing a whole new situation. But I have to say that I am responding to the fact that the statistics for theft, according to newspaper articles, are now being taken out of the publication by the police. Some people feed themselves by stealing groceries from shops and selling them to, among other things. restaurants. Smuggling is well noticed in the form of cheap goods in some shops. The honest merchants are losing on this. Does the Council of State think that there should be a special police force dealing with organised crime and that we have sufficient sanctions in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e940	I will deal with one of the issues raised by the representative, namely the illegal trading activity of legal and illegal goods. Some of it is the cross-border wholesale activity. I have just visited Halden Police District, where I saw the way Halden Police District and the Tollvesen work together to identify what is happening. I was very impressed by the cooperation, and I also saw results from it. I would like to describe it this way: there is an international illegal trade in both legal and illegal products. So the representative is turning the spotlight on the victors, which are all sorts of reasons for a hard hit, and which we will follow up on in criminal matters. He said that some of them can also be assumed to be suppliers. Then my marking is the following, which I would like to repeat from Stortinget's pulpit: I think the healer has been one for the protected person. When we talk about organized crime, we talk about backers, and we agree that we should take them. For common thieves, we operate with healers, and I am concerned that we should follow some of these victories to the healer to make some examples, and I said that last night at a symposium on crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e952	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The BARM project was launched in Hamburg in August 1996. [[Dwelling, Work, Rehabilitation and the Environment]] The measure was primarily a follow-up offer for prisoners leaving Hamar County Prison and former prisoners from the same location. In the critical phase/transition when prisoners are to be released, the danger is often great to return to new crimes. The project has been evaluated positively. The project is now at risk of closure. What will the Council of State do to enable the BARM project to continue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e961	The BARM Centre was established in 1996 by the Church's Social Service. The aim of the BARM project is to prevent relapses into drugs and crime. The Kalfarhuset in Bergen is run by the Church's Social Service with the same objective. The Ministry of Justice has for several years provided financial support for both of these projects. The BARM Centre has received support every year since its launch, and received NOK 275 000 in 1999. The Ministry of Justice allocates annual funds to non-governmental organisations dealing with convicted persons. The Church's Social Service has also applied for support for the BARM for the current year. The deadline for applications for non-governmental organisations was 1 February 2000. The Ministry has now started the review of the applications and will allocate the funds to the applicants at the end of the procedure. Applications are expected to be finalised by 15 March 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e972	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State certainly understands, I am concerned about getting a kind of financial guarantee that this good project can continue. The project is unique and a good example of cooperation between public and voluntary bodies. The BARM centre in Hamar is a contact centre for drug users and is subject to criminal charges, and there is also the possibility of individual follow-up and follow-up protection in an overall perspective, with the aim of helping users away from drugs and crime. This is actually a cheap offer to this group. I hope the Council of State can cooperate with the Minister of Social Affairs, because here too there is an opportunity to obtain financial assistance. And I hope the Council of State can put in a good word, so that the BARM-centre at Hamar still gets financial support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e979	It was in my answer that the project had to be seen as positive, but I do not apply from Stortinget's pulpit even when I get sympathetic questions. I am also aware that the operation of the project depends on more than the Ministry of Justice. It depends on other departments – at least I think it's right as the representative said, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and I also assume the municipality and the county municipality. I take the call with me, and as far as possible, I will at least contribute to my cooperation with other departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e986	Now I became considerably more calm, because the Minister of Justice now so clearly stated that this was a positive project. The evaluation also shows that. We all know that it's like that with the post-protection offer for the prisoners and criminally charged. The municipalities are struggling with the economy. That's why this is such a good project, which actually makes active contact with the users' family and the social network around the prisoners. I'm glad it's the Minister of Justice who answers this question, because I know he has his heart right with the weakest in society. I hope that the Minister of Justice can now help us, so that the Barm Centre can continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e995	When I said what I did in the previous answer, it was to express a basic attitude. But I'm often painfully aware that we have more good candidates than we have money. It suggests that I need to clarify that the assessment has not been made. But I have no reason not to stress just the positive of having an after-career, and how volunteering participates. Then it is my job to ensure a fair distribution of funds, and the representative has at least put this place on the agenda for me. This has been achieved by asking the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1003	This question, from Mr Beevivi's representative to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Einar Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1006	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘After several reports on the storage of chemical weapons in Kolahalvøya, the Minister of Justice announced in July 1999 that he would set up a sample with a status on the emergency situation in the event of an accident. Is this work completed and what action will the Council of State take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1015	I assume that the representative Beeivi, who had then addressed this issue, aims at the sample to assess the vulnerability and preparedness of society. The committee is chaired by Kåre Willoch and appointed by the Council of State on 3 September 1999. The selection, which is cross-political and includes expertise from key preparedness environments, will provide a broad assessment of the vulnerability and preparedness of society and a comprehensive description of the risks of exceptional civil society pressures in peace, security policy crises and war. This also includes an assessment of the risk and vulnerability and civil preparedness to face major epidemics and incidents with or deliberate use of nuclear, biological or chemical weapons or materials. A common risk picture shall form the basis for priorities and recommendations for action. The Committee shall give its opinion by 1 July 2000. When these issues were in the press in the summer of 1999, I carried out a rapid monitoring of the preparedness for weapons of mass destruction. I concluded that these statements, in isolation, did not lead to the implementation of specific emergency measures. Current preparedness planning emphasises that all levels of government should have plans suitable for meeting a wide range of events. Another issue is whether preparedness for weapons of mass destruction should generally be improved. This is a question that is also relevant internationally, including in NATO. The Directorate for Civil Protection, in consultation with the Ministry of Justice, has taken the initiative of a Contact/Working Group. This group, which I also mentioned last summer, has among other things. as a mandate for drawing up a national framework for the protection against weapons of mass destruction. Work involves a number of departments and departments concerned. The work of this group is in the start-up phase. I asked to get a first sketch from the group on 1 July 2000. The work I have just mentioned is just two of a series of works that are directly linked to – or part of – problems related to weapons of mass destruction. I require, among other things: that these work will provide a basis for assessing existing contingency arrangements in relation to new challenges in this area, including: the threat that might arise from what we might call non-governmental terrorist organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1030	In the mass media, headlines are constantly looking at the storage of chemical weapons on the Kola Peninsula, and it is in such a way that people feel a disturbance, especially in the areas closest to Kola. At the same time, it is unclear what the emergency situation really is. In addition, both the political and economic situation in North-West Russia is very difficult, as everyone knows. There are things that make it difficult to do something about environmental pollution in these areas. It is therefore important that Norway has the necessary preparedness. We cannot unilaterally support Russian measurements in such a case. We also have to do measurements ourselves, and get to know what's going on. It is important for those who live in these areas, whether they are Norwegians or Russians for the sake of removing today's uncertainty so that people can feel secure in relation to these problems. If there was an accident with the chemical stores, no one can today say with certainty what is really going to happen. Therefore, it is positive that this is the way you have handled the matter, and that you will also follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1037	Last summer I was given an assessment of the assumed stock – I express myself this way – on the Russian side, and was given an assessment that an accident would not be perceived as a decisive risk to Norway. I did not think I would settle for that, although I got that report, so the work of the Willoch Committee was started, and therefore the work on the directorate's emergency plan was started. I also share the representative's concern, especially because he comes from an area that is close to areas that can be affected. And that's all possible reason for national authorities to stress it. I would like to repeat what I said when the Willoch Committee was set up. I said I'm putting down this sample so that there'll be unrest in the population. Then I added: constructive unrest. We cannot act as if we do not have threats against us, but we must get the best possible description, and then discuss measures. That means that Norwegian civil protection will put 9 April 1940 behind and go into a new millennium of new, frightening threats, but also with a public awareness of what we're going to do, and I trust that we get good results out of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1053	I have the following questions for Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum: ‘Previous Prime Minister of Kuwait, Colonel Ali Al-Gebr, deployed by Iraq following the invasion of Kuwait in August 1990, has been in Norway on a ‘humanitarian basis’. It is claimed that this has happened with UDI's knowledge. If this is true, current asylum practices mean that persons who are war criminals or who have committed serious criminal acts are allowed to stay in Norway without being held responsible for their actions. What will the Government do to ensure that this is not allowed for the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1062	The Directorate for Foreign Affairs granted Alaa Hussain Ali Al-Gebr residence in Norway, after UNHCR, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, had promoted an urgent request for resettlement. His identity and former role in Kuwait were identified by the UNHCR documentation. Al-Gebr had no independent role as Prime Minister during the occupation of Kuwait. The background to his arrival in this situation was that he was arrested and brought to Iraq, where he was told that he had been appointed Prime Minister. He never returned to Kuwait. The Directorate found in its assessment that Al-Gebr needed protection under the Refugee Convention as the case was brought by the UNHCR, since he could neither return to Iraq nor Kuwait without risking persecution, and consented to resettlement in Norway. After arriving in Norway, however, he said that he did not fear persecution in Kuwait, and wanted to return there as soon as the conditions were right. He was therefore granted a humanitarian residence permit, and not asylum. Norwegian authorities do not grant residence permits to war criminals. The criteria for the withdrawal of transfer refugees do not allow for that. In this context, it may also be mentioned that the UNHCR has a selection process to ensure that wanted war criminals are not resettled. However, it is not theoretically possible to exclude special cases in which war criminals enter and cannot be returned because of the first paragraph of Section 15 of the Foreign Affairs Act and the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMK. In the case in question, which the representative raised, the directorate has subsequently recognised that the matter has foreign policy aspects which suggest that it should have been submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before the decision on admission was taken. I'm assuming that the directorate is conscious of this issue when dealing with later issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1075	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. I interpret his answer to the point that he believes it was right that Al-Gebr had a stay in Norway, and I ask him to answer if it is correctly understood. He himself addressed this with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not being informed. And then I'd like to ask what to do for the future so that this doesn't repeat itself, because most of the people who stay have a concrete foreign policy connection, that there are foreign policy issues that will be involved in most cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1084	I am not making any review of what happened. I described what happened and the actual information – also Al-Gebr’s personal situation – and I found out how the matter was handled. Then I explained the general guidelines that apply to war criminals, and I underlined that UDI has later recognised that the case had aspects that made it available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. With such a recognition, I expect contacts between the UDI and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be established that will increase that awareness so much that you have the experience you need to secure it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1089	My supplementary question to the Minister of Justice is whether he believes that today's practice is satisfactory – whether it is such that he believes that today's legislation ensures that there are no terrorists, international criminals, war criminals, etc. in Norway, and that current practice is good enough to prevent this from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1094	I gave in my first answer the following, which I repeat: Norwegian authorities do not grant residence permits for war criminals. The criteria for transfer refugees also do not open up, and it is also the case that the UNHCR has a selection process to ensure that wanted war criminals are not resettled. A practice based on those rules, with my knowledge of this, should provide certainty. From the experience you have, and not least from the experience you have in general, regardless of this question, that you know that some criminals are trying to apply to Norway, at least I must assure the representative that the Minister of Justice is following all such questions very carefully, because we are not served by someone trying to trick us in such a way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1102	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘There are wide variations between municipalities in youth sharing hours. In a report from Norwegian Teacher Teams based on data from GSI statistics, covering all municipalities, the number of divided hours varies from 0.6 to 21.8 hours per. week. A large number of municipalities use less than 5 hours for sharing. Does the Council of State consider that a school with 0.6 hours for sharing can meet the curriculum’s requirements for organized education and is there a lower limit for hours a school with an average class size should have?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1111	Municipalities are responsible for providing students with defensive training, in accordance with the laws and curricula and within the financial framework at their disposal. Between the marks here is the principle of custom training. It is largely up to the individual municipality to choose the solutions and measures to comply with this principle. Sharing hours are extra learning hours that allow you to share a class or have multiple teachers present in the class at the same time. No specific source has been defined for such hours. I agree with the representative of Reikvam that there are considerable variations between municipalities in the use of sharing hours, including in youth, as GSI confirms for the school year 1999-2000. This is due both to the different priorities of municipalities and to the fact that the need for sharing hours depends on a variety of factors, including student composition and class size. In general, e.g. small classes need less sharing hours than large, without themselves having to have any influence on how one meets the requirements for custom training. It is up to the individual municipality to exercise a defensive judgement on the question of what resources should be deployed to meet this requirement. If the school doesn't think it's possible to give the students the defensive training they need within the framework of the school's resources, the school should report this to the municipality. The variations in resource availability may give rise to concern. As mentioned in St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99, Towards richer targets, and followed up in the State budget for this year, attempts are being made to test different hourly allocation models for schools in youth. The allocation of hours is in large measure linked to the number of students at each class step. The aim is to stimulate greater flexibility in the organisation of training and to smooth out differences between small and large classes. This could take care of large classes in a better way than today. I would like to assess the experience of the experiment, even when it concerns the question of how best to make best use of the resources in view of the need for appropriate training. They speak the representative of Rikvam points out, giving cause for concern. I see it as right to consider the need for closer regulation of dividing hours in connection with the experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1124	I thank you for the answer, but that was probably not the answer to my questions. All of them first to terminology. I do not perceive sharing hours as extra hours. Sharing hours are part of the total number of hours that a class has at its disposal, which is to be used for different things. My first question is this: Can a school that has 0.6 hours to share – and then we talk about individual arrangements, project work and everything that has to do with adapted training – meet the requirements of the curriculum? The curriculum is quite clear, both in working forms and in working methods. So to the second question. An average grade at youth level is about Twenty-two students, the state council knows that, and I know that. And then the question is: will the Council of State assume that there is a lower limit to hours that such a class should have in order to meet the requirements that we, as politicians, have set in the curriculum?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1135	First to terminology. I can give the representative Rikvam right in that his definition of dividing hours is as good and complementary as mine. There I will meet the questioner. When there is a lower limit, it does not, in itself, make it legal. It's related to a great use of discretion. What has been said on our part in St. gemeld. No 28 is that some municipalities are at a very low level when it comes to resource use in schools. Then what the questioner takes up here is one of the things that has been evaluated. That is why we have also said there, and I say it again today, that this gives cause for concern, and if it goes on for a long time, I am prepared to address the issue that the representative of Reikvam raises.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1142	Now I think it'll be a little bit interesting. What the Council of State says is that there is no lower limit, but there is something that is at the bottom of the line. If there is something down to a lower limit, the Council of State must somehow have defined some form of lower limit. I see it so far that 0.6 hours of division with an average class size is above the lower limit. But then we have to raise the basic question: how can a teacher who has 30.6 hours – he has 30 hours mandatory – be able to offer individual arrangements? How can he manage to add up to project work when he has 0.6 hours per. week to do this? It's going to be the basic question, which I don't think the Council of State is going to go into. But he's probably defined a lower limit, because he's putting something that's down towards a lower limit. I'm gonna ask him to comment on it again. Since he has found that something is there, he must have defined the limit. And then the question is, where does it go?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1147	First, I would like to say how pleased I am that the representative Reikvam thinks it is starting to be interesting. That's a good character in itself. When I defined it as a cause for concern, and that it also had to be assessed if this was the case, if the supply of resources was so low over time, it was, of course, in relation to the community's commitment to the school in total what is in the state report. What we've said is that based on the judgement we're going to use in relation to those state reports, it might be useful to do something about it. When a host as specific as the asker is when he asks for a class and asks me if it's defensive or not, it's so much up to what that class is like, that I don't want to answer that specific question at this point in time. But it's absolutely true that it's interesting, and it's necessary to keep working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1155	I will ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «The first set-aside coal that has specialized in Christianism with life - vision orientation is out of the 10th grade in the spring of 2000. Children who are kept away from the CRL profession are at risk of getting fewer points when admitted to high school. Will the State Council consider whether the students can be compensated for this, taking into account the major conflict that has occurred over the new CRL subject?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1164	This is the first time an elephant is admitted to the 10th class of further training by L97. I have been made aware that some of the elephants who have been kept away from the KRL subject have been informed that they will not be rated in the subject. Missing grades in a course may result in further training. In the case of a score draw for the further training for elephants who lack grades in one or more disciplines, the rule is that this is compensated by the missing subjects getting points corresponding to the average of the counting characters. So far, these rules have been practised to ensure that the students have been granted an exemption from the basic school. Anyone who leaves the 10th grade in the spring of 2000 may have had reason to believe that they would get a score draw in line with the rules if they didn't get a grade in the CRL field. It's this year's first time that the elephant leaves the base after L97, and I don't want the students to suffer when they're proud of this system. Therefore, I have come to the conclusion that these students will be compensated for this subject by calculating the entry points for further training in the autumn 2000. I can do this because the wording of the relevant paragraph of the Training Act Regulation is open and can therefore also include the KRL subject. I am currently working on the revision of, among other things, the rules on admission to the training law. In this context, I will look at the question of the missing character of elephants who have been kept away from the CRL subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1173	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. I understand that children who have been kept away from the CRL subject illegally will be able to get this compensated by calculating points based on the other subjects, so that they get points in the subject. I think that's a perfectly correct decision by the Council of State, because we have to assume that there are serious reasons for persuasion behind it, when parents go to the step of keeping the children away from the teaching of this subject. Therefore, I must say that I am very pleased that, as far as I am aware, the Council of State will not allow these students to be harmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1178	First I find reason to agree in the understanding and conclusion that the representative of Dørum had. They'll get these points calculated as they used to be. This doesn't mean that the government and I accept keeping the kids away, but it's a consequence that one might have had reason to believe that the previous practice would be followed. In addition, I agree with the representative, Mr Dørum, that in an evaluation phase, as we are at present, there is absolutely no reason, in the areas where there is indeed cause for doubt, to add to the conflict. It is better that we have a dialogue in connection with the evaluation that works. So there's not an acceptance in this because there's absolutely all right with civil disobedience, but it has our cause for doubt. That's why we practice it that way, and that's in my view in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1188	I will ask this question to the Minister for Church, Education and Research: «Local politicians from the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in Oslo want to refuse weekly prayers from mosques. Does the Council of State consider that a local government or city council may have the opportunity to restrict religious freedom in this way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1197	As well in the Constitution as in the law on trust societies, the right to free exercise of religion is established in line with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. Article 9 of the Convention provides: ‘The freedom to express their religion or belief shall be subject only to such restrictions as are prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society for reasons of public security, for the protection of public order, health or morality, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.’;» Even if freedom is there, it is said that it must be balanced against other matters permitted by law. For natural reasons, national guidelines do not regulate issues of prayer. As I see it, it's natural that prayers are allowed in connection with main collections, e.g. Friday prayers. The representative of Solheim asks questions as to whether municipal government or city councils have the power to restrict religious freedom. Of course they don't. Municipal government and urban selection must adhere to the laws and conventions on freedom of trust, but at the same time there may also be restrictions such as: goes in relation to public order and rules on noise limits. I trust that the local levels will stick to the commitments made by the Norwegian Conventions, but that in the specific design there will be nuances based on different local conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1209	I will be grateful to the Council of State for the answer, which I find essentially positive. Everyone understands that this is a balance. On the one hand, religious freedom, which must mean that every vision of life and every religion should have the opportunity to be clearly expressed – that church bells should be able to play, and that there should be prayers from a mosque, or that Hindus or Buddhists in connection with their central religious actions should also be able to preach this in public space. On the other hand, this must be bounded by privacy, noise rules and that there should be no inconvenience to the rest. A church that intended to be able to record to the service five times a day, of which once in the middle of the night, would of course be a nuisance to its neighborhood and not be accepted by anyone. So this is the balance that we have to do. But as I see it, his view is that, in relation to the central elements of every vision of life, the Friday prayer of Muslims or the Sunday high Mass of the Christian Church, there is no occasion for the local government or the city council to make boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1216	Essentially, I am in the summary that Solheim's representative had in relation to the understanding of my answer, with the exception of the last sentence. It is clear that there are religious premises that are so close to either a hospital, a hospital, or other things that make the local authorities, according to it, need more restrictions. Therefore, I don't want to say it quite as general as the representative Solheim said it now. Here, the local use of the laws must be taken into account, and I have confidence in the local levels, as I said. But what's my approach angle, is that I find it natural that in the case that we've discussed now, there is the opportunity to pray for what is the Holy Day of Muslims, simply Friday. And I've registered that today in the Online Newspaper, Solheim is expressing somewhat what is my view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1223	I can just get all the way to the Council of State's point of view. The essence here is, of course, that you treat everyone's view of life in the same way with regard to these questions, that they are treated equally, whether in the case of prayers from a mosque or bell sounds from a church, or in the case of some other religious expressions. If there is a problem with the neighborhood, a practical balance needs to be found. There may be people who sleep on Friday afternoon and feel that they are plagued by noise coming from a mosque, I do not ignore that. Some of us have sometimes also found it difficult to get up on Sunday morning when we are awakened by church bells, I cannot ignore that either. The point is that Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Sikhism and any religion are treated equally, and they have the same need to adapt to the environment for the different aspects of life. And that's where I see it that the Council of State and I are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1228	I just want to repeat what I said in my main response, that it is the European Convention on Human Rights that is to be founded, and Norwegian legislation. Then it has to be up to the authorities to manage those laws in a good way. Of course, those who may be displeased with a decision here must be able to appeal through normal channels or set up a process in relation to it. What I'm happy about, and as this questioner explains, is that Solheim and I are also quite a few people who say that in our culture it won't be natural to introduce a system where there will be prayer five times a day, seven days a week. It'll be unnatural, and that's what I've been saying all along. But the principal possibility as a general rule should be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1238	If there's an equally successful answer to this question, we get a good day: ‘The curriculum for the new enlarged Christian subject does not include Sikhism, despite the fact that the Sikh religion has more followers both in the world and in Norway than in the outlook on life. The Sikh community in Norway finds this hurtful. Will the Council of State take the initiative to address this issue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1247	We're going to have to give it a try. Fact-finding Christianism with religious and life-seeking orientation aims to give the students a basic knowledge of Christianity, other religions and views of life, and of general ethical and philosophical subjects. The greatest emphasis has been placed on the great world religions, but the students also need to learn about different directions within them, and about other religions and religious movements with a background in Buddhism, Hinduism, Christianity and Islam. It goes without saying that a selection of doctrines has been made, and not all religions can be called or referred to as the principal moment in L97. Although not directly mentioned, the plan provides a good basis for learning about Sikhism. The CRL plan suggests that students should work with religions and life views that are represented in the class or in the community. It says so. that students should meet representatives of different threat and life views in the local environment. As part of the local work on the curriculum in the subject, local concreteisations and the selection of teaching material must be made. In particular, it would be appropriate to include teaching material on the issue of celibacy where it is also present in the local environment. On behalf of the Ministry, the Norwegian Research Council has launched an evaluation of the KRL subject. The evaluation shall consider how the training in the subject has been carried out and shall be ready for the fall. In the evaluation that the ministry will do after the evaluation, I will see whether it is natural that the ceremony is also referred to in the curriculum based on the extent of religion in Norway and elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1267	I also find this reply to be very positive. Sikhism is, after all, perceived by most as a separate separate world religion, although there are also voices that believe that it must be seen as a variant within Hinduism. But I believe the understanding that is spreading more and more among the Sikhs themselves is that it is a religion of its own in line with Hinduism, Islam and other religions that have a strong impact on the Indian subcontinent. Sikhs are scattered around the world, gradually very much as Jews, as a result of local conditions in Punjab and also of their creativity and work. We have many in Norway, but there are relatively many Sikhs all over the Western world. All these considerations suggest that there should be a general orientation on Sikhism for all, but I share the view of the Council of State that it should, of course, be given special attention in those areas of Norway where there are a number of Sikhs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1274	I take with me the assessment of how it should be viewed in relation to the other great world religions. There's what Solheim's representative said, something different, but the main principle of the subject is that every religion should look like it's own self-esteem, and from that we'll work when we're going to take the assessment that I'm warning in my main response.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1279	I'll be very brief, and the Council of State will only have to comment if he disagrees. I take it as a matter of course that the Department will enter into a dialogue with the Norwegian Sikh community on how this can be done in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1284	The councils are nodding, so we're moving on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1290	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The States lost the referenda against the parish priests Olav Berg Lyngmo and Arne Thorsen of Alta Herredsrett. Why does the Council of State consider a new round of consultations necessary for the Bishops' Meeting and the Council of Churches, when they have previously spoken on the same matter, and does this mean that the Council of State considers that the Church can settle down on the understanding of supervision as expressed in the judgment?"
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1299	As the representative of Dørum refers to, the state did not win the campaign against Soknepristane Olav Berg Lyngmo and Arne Thorsen in Alta Heradsrett. The majority, the two laymen, have given their parishes the opportunity to dismiss them. The jury has examined the matter and has done some good for its position, which is that the conditions for dismissal are present. I have now obtained the attorney general's legal assessment of the verdict, and sent it to the bishops and the Council of Churches and ask for a statement from them. The time limit for appeal to the Lawyers' Court shall be 21 March. As I've said in the media, I'm surprised at the verdict, but I haven't found the basis for deciding if the verdict is going to appeal is good enough, before I've also heard what the church organs mean. It is consistent with an administration in church matters I want to have, that in all important matters of principle I will right-wing Church say meaning before I take the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1308	I thank you for your answer. It is incomprehensible to me that the Council of State believes it is necessary to hear again both the Council of Churches and the bishops. The state sued the two priests, following clear recommendations from the Council of Churches and ten of the country's eleven bishops, after the two priests dismissed the supervision of Bishop Ola Steinholt and the «Wicked» Børre Knudsen to his bishop. It would be quite alarming if a two-to-one ruling in the country's lowest court in such an important case were to become enforceable. There is also a concern about the ruling of the Ministerial Advocate, who recommends that the matter be brought before the Court. So I can't see a single reason why the Council of State needs to get new advice on this matter. Why does he really do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1317	It is not surprising that the representative of Dørum and the Council of State has a somewhat different view of the extent to which the Church is to take part in the decisions of the Church, including those on matters of principle. That's exactly what the representative Dørum says, that before the previous round, a council came from the Church's organs, i.e. by the Council of Churches and the bishops individually. So now it's going to lead a sentence. I think it is important to assess the assumptions and consequences it will have in terms of supervision, and I think it is important to do so in the situation that is now, two — in fact, almost three — years after the previous round. Therefore, I find it certain that the Church will be accompanied by advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1324	The thing is, however, that the Church has already been taken on board and has given its clear advice – except for one bishop who was opposed. But has the Council of State considered the consequences of this for church and community life in Kautokeino? Prost Per Oskar Kjöllaas i Inner Finnmark prosti describes the Kautokeino community as a battlefield. The guest says in the Evening Post: ‘The withdrawal of proceedings means that Kautokeino continues to be a battlefield with the resulting pains and divisions.’ Has the Council assessed the impact this will have on church and community life in Kautokeino when he is postponing the decision on the matter and it may take a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1336	First of all, it doesn't take much longer than it would have done anyway, because I've seen what time a plare has when it's anchoring. Here has a two-month period. And the usual thing is that one uses the two-month period. The difference is that either a case is dealing with an individual in the department, or one attracts Church. So until the matter of whether the Council of State has thought through the consequences. Yes, I'll promise the President and ask him that I have, and here there's no simple answer. Because it is quite right that the prosthetic has said one thing, and a few days ago I received a very strong letter from the sock council in Kautokeino, which says it just as strongly the other way. I have to see the health, and I also have to look at the consequences that it will have for the Church in the long term. To that end, I would like to receive that assessment from the Church itself, and it does not, as I have said, significantly delay the case. Then I will take the necessary decisions before the deadline is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1351	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The relocation of the business telephone was previously a priority task for Telenor and was largely implemented quickly. Today Telenor informs companies more often and more often that they do not have the capacity to print the order, but of course they can do so if there is an urgent order. The urgent order takes Telenor five times the ordinary price, and this is done more often and more often by Telenor above companies that are totally dependent on the telephone. Will the Council of State look at this delete customer service that Telenor is doing here?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1360	Telenor has informed on request that the main intention is to comply with the customer's desired date for the execution of the order, whether it is the transfer of the phone or the start-up. Telenor's target delivery time, i.e. from the customer to the installer has completed the order, is five working days for new orders/movements of normal telephone and 10 working days for ISDN telephone. On average, approx. 90 pst. by the orders delivered within this objective. Deviations occur especially in situations where sales are large, or that storms have caused particularly large amounts of error in the same period. If the customer wants to have the order implemented faster than this, express delivery is offered. The statistics show that Telenor has approx. 25 express deliveries per weeks on a national basis. This represents only 1 pst. of the approx. 2800 orders produced and delivered to the business market per. weeks under normal conditions, i.e. without express. This shows that express deliveries therefore form a small part of the total deliveries to the business market. The State of the Ministry of Transport is the owner of Telenor AS. The company is managed by a board of directors and the department has no authority in the company without a general meeting. However, Telenor has the right and obligation to organise and operate its current business activities. It is therefore not possible or desirable for the Council of State to examine individual cases and review Telenor’s decisions regarding the company’s assessments in its day-to-day business.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1369	I thank you for your answer. In this respect it was quite useful with 90 pst. Delivery within the target, but nevertheless, I think that five times the normal removal price when you are going to basically get into a contact or just do it on a computer – they take NOK 2 500 in addition to doing what is an urgent order – is starting to get a little daunted. I have received more feedback on this, including: from an enterprise in Molde, where you had the assembly station itself in the same building. He went up, and there they had good time the installers who sat there, but they could not do anything until the urgent order was sent from Oslo. Then he was told that it was five times the usual price, and it is NOK 2,500 in addition. Doesn't the Council of State think it's a little late to arrange a contact?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1376	Let me again stress that Telenor's scheduled delivery time is five working days for new orders and transfers of the usual telephone, except for specially stressed periods and storms. The numbers referred to may appear to be high. I can confirm that the express delivery of the establishment or transfer of the usual telephone costs NOK 750 in addition to the usual price. I can also confirm that the express delivery when setting up or moving the ISDN telephone costs NOK 2 500 in addition to the usual price, and the usual price in both of these cases is reasonably low compared to the operations to be performed. I therefore assume that the signals that have now come about special cases, individual cases, are taken into account by Telenor, but I cannot go into individual matters here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1388	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘E6 through Northern Ireland is often closed due to low road standards. E6 between the North Trøndelag border and Trofors has been closed 36 times in 1999, the Korg mountain has been closed 42 times, and the distance between Mo in Rana and Saltberg has been closed 28 times. This applies to reported road closures over 30 minutes due to car storage. Does the Council of State think this is acceptable? If not, what does the Council of State intend to do to improve the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1397	E6 through Nordland, and in particular from the Nord-Trøndelag border to Saltberg, has a varying standard. This applies to both road width, gradient and curve. The highest exposure is the Korg Mountain. It is true that on the route a good deal of excursions, especially winter time, occur with car storage and short-term road closure as a result. Car storage will take some time when heavy-duty vehicles are involved. The causes of the off-road traffic are related to the road standard and driving conditions or to the vehicle and/or driver. The road standard, as mentioned above, is very variable. Small lots in which heavy-duty vehicles are difficult to meet and sharp turns can lead to excursions. Over the steep Korg mountain, heavier vehicles often need drag assistance to get over. Rehabilitation of the distance can be better. Much of the criticism from the audience seems to be a criticism of the road standard. Of course, the lead also plays an important role. The state’s road system has stated that during the current winter season, the Vegvesenet has stepped up the bedding over the Korgbergellet both in frequency and quantity. In general, efforts in relation to the littering of the northern roads have increased significantly over the last few years. Furthermore, through the information service of road traffic control centres, Vegvesenet seeks to prepare road users as best they can for the conditions that will meet them. Drivers also contribute to the problems by not always ensuring that the cars are adequately protected for the season. Checks by the police and the State Road Service have revealed examples of serious deficiencies. I would therefore like to stress that the road users also have a responsibility for their own safety and accessibility. The road system, through its winter operations, will seek to reduce the problems of excursions and car storage as far as possible. In addition to this, it is only a improvement of the distance with better road width, slope and curve that will provide a lasting improvement in conditions. Tunnel through the Korg mountain will be the main contribution here. I can inform you that the Road Directorate is planning the project E6 Osen-Korgen, which includes, among other things. tunnel through the Korg mountain. I believe that this measure will have the greatest impact in resolving the issues described by the representative Svendsen in his question. The size is given the opportunity to prioritise this project in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan later in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1414	I am pleased that the Minister for Transport and I can agree entirely on the description of reality presented here by the Minister, and then we will see whether we can agree on how best to deal with this in future budgets. It has been found in studies from the NHO that transport costs for Norwegian enterprises are 50 pst. higher than for comparable enterprises in the EU. The exceptional level of fees, including: of diesel, of course, is a contributing factor in the high cost, but it is also clear that the road standard plays a significant role here. Of course, the closure is due to mostly bad weather conditions during winter time, but many accidents also occur during the summer due to poor road shoulders and narrow and curved roads. Will the Minister take the initiative to prioritize and increase road appropriations in future budgets, so that problems can be resolved as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1423	The last part of the question is probably as big a challenge to the Stortinget as it is to the Minister and to the Government. I have no objection to increasing budgetary resources. On the contrary, we can solve some – both road safety issues, road triggering issues and improvements in accessibility – by increasing appropriations. At the same time, it is important that the appropriations that we have, after all, are allocated as properly and fairly as possible, and come to maximum use, and then, as we have had in the past today, rational progress can be some of what we need to look at more closely than we have done before. I would also like to remind you that in the plans of the National Transport Plan, which have been out for consultation, the project E6 Osen-Korgen has been in the first four years of completion for the last six years – a total of ten years. That means, in other words, that the project is a high priority. The government's proposals, coming in March-April, are then being discussed by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1432	It was nice to hear that the minister wanted larger budgets. If the Minister dares to try and get through to the Government for increased appropriations to the roadside of the government budgets in the future, I can promise that the Progress Party will be a contributor when it comes to ensuring that it goes through.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1437	A specialist council is always interested in what signals the Storting gives, in what decisions it takes, and not least in how we can most rationally use the funds the Storting finally makes available. So I look forward to the debate on the national transport plan – the distribution between air, sea, rail and road – and the angle you want to put on it both in terms of the distribution between parts of the country, in terms of the ratio of highways/trainways, and in terms of the possible distribution of resource frameworks between the levels. It might be that when we first present a national transport plan, we get a different type of debate than we have had when we have dealt with the road plans separately, the railway plans separately, the aviation plans separately and the maritime transport side separately. So we're going to meet exciting times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1445	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the course of the last few days, the conversion of the main airport at the Gardermoen in the context of the Schengen Agreement will cost 100 million. krones. Was the Ministry of Transport not aware of this agreement when planning the expansion of the airport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1454	The content of the Schengen Agreement and the conclusion of the Schengen Agreement by Norway were reached at a time after the adaptation of the measures to the progress of the Gardermoen. In other words, the Ministry of Transport or underlying agencies/companies could not really be aware of the content of an agreement that had not been concluded when the majority of the planning was carried out at Gardermoen, cf. the wording of the question to the representative of Nistad. The consequences of a Schengen agreement for Gardermoen were assessed on an ongoing basis during the planning of the aerodrome. The Swedish Aviation Agency and Oslo Airport AS have, among other things: have been represented in a working group under the Ministry of Justice on these issues. The content of the Schengen cooperation and its implications for Norwegian airports were uncertain in the planning phase of the Gardermoen. In 1996 a report on the costs of Norwegian airports was prepared by the Swedish Aviation Agency in response to Norwegian negotiations on any link to the Schengen Agreement. The cost of action was calculated from the traffic statistics for 1995. Oslo Airport AS participated in the preparation of the report, which concluded that the costs of Norwegian participation in Schengen cooperation would amount to EUR 12 million. Dr. Gardermoen. A prerequisite for this cost estimate was that Schengen measures at the Gardermoen could be carried out as a natural part of the development itself. This provided for the conclusion of the agreement in the first half of 1996. The first decision on Schengen association in the United Kingdom was not taken until late in the spring of 1997. The volume of traffic across the Gardermo affected by the Schengen Agreement is today greater than provided for in previous assessments of measures for Schengen adaptations. The construction work currently carried out is therefore more extensive and more expensive than previous plans. Among other things, larger areas are required as a result of the simultaneous take-off of more aeroplanes than previously assumed to be located outside the Schengen area. Another reason why costs have increased is that a solution has been adopted for the implementation of the construction work related to the Schengen adaptation that minimises the impact of the ongoing traffic diversion at the aerodrome.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1469	That traffic on the Gardermo has become more than I expected, I understand. But we've, after all, considered applying for membership of the EU a couple of times, and it's been many years since we started it. At an early stage, traffic was already separated in Europe. We have also separated Nordic citizens from other citizens, so we have had a kind of separation system on the Gardermo. I cannot therefore understand that it has now been discovered, as suddenly as possible, that there is something called the Schengen Agreement or that there is an EU agreement in this area. I would like to say that this has started a little late. In addition, there have also been major problems with snow cleaning and de-icing, which has not been discovered before at Gardermoen. So it's starting to become quite a lot of things you haven't known would show up when it comes to the Gardermoen expansion. I wonder if this might be conscious, so it would be cheap to make an airport there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1476	I have no reason to believe that there is any such deliberate action or thinking behind as the representative Nistad suggested. As far as the question of what the Schengen Agreement would mean for the development itself, it is clear, as I said in my main response, that this has been part of the evaluation process, but some assumptions were not in place. The agreement was concluded so late that it was not possible to implement it during the development process. Then there are two more things that I should mention: the requirement for locations, among other things. by the police, has become larger than originally foreseen. A different situation has also arisen for a destination to which the Canary Islands, which is relevant, within or outside the Schengen assessment, need to be controlled. In short, some practical things have in retrospect had to be much higher than you had the ability to do in planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1485	It is now beginning to show up many things that have been under assessment in the case of Gardermoen. That it has been included in the assessment is like what goes on in one case after another. But if you look at all the problems that have arisen on the Gardermo, does the Council have a feeling about how much all these additional costs are going to be total? What's the final sum going to be? And does the Council expect that there may be even more things in the cold – that were assessed, but that are not included, but that may come?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1492	I may have more skills than I know, but I'm not a fortune teller. Therefore, I do not intend to predict whether we have reached a target in terms of total amounts, costs and assessments relating to different aspects of the Gardermoen project. In this respect, I refer to the current treatment in Stortinget. But let me say, in the name of justice, that when this expansion and adaptation to the Schengen Agreement is fully operational at the airport, it is clear that it costs a lot more than if it had been done in advance and could have been included in the cost of development. This was not possible, because the Schengen Agreement was obviously not concluded in time for all costs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1509	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1515	This question, from Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister of Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1518	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Social Affairs the following questions, which the Minister for Health will answer: ‘It is now necessary to require holders of grant appropriations to have passed a knowledge test in the alcohol legislation and make provision for it. The same requirement does not apply to those who are required to check whether or not a dealer is operating under the alcohol law, and as the undersigned sees it, this may be a basis for conflicts and different interpretations of whether or not a driver is in breach of the alcohol law. Will the Council of State ensure that the same knowledge test is also required for philanthropic inspectors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1527	The new rule on the taking of a test of knowledge specifies that the controller and alternate in an establishment authorised for the sale or donation of alcoholic beverages must take a test of knowledge. The system of evidence of knowledge of the alcohol law with regulations is justified by the need to increase the level of knowledge of those responsible for sale and donation. The municipalities are responsible for providing the necessary training for those responsible for the control of the sale and donation of alcoholic beverages. I refer to the Social Minister's answer to a similar question in the Question Time on 2 June last year. The Minister of Social Affairs feels confident that municipalities are following up this responsibility, and therefore does not plan to take the initiative on further rules to ensure that municipal inspectors have the necessary knowledge of the alcohol law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1534	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say that it worries me. Municipal responsibility, of course, is for the knowledge test to be conducted – in the case of the performing enterprises. With regard to requirements for the training of examiners, there is no requirement for the training itself. I can use examples from my own municipality, where this has been put out for tender and has a company-wide training without checking the content of the training. My question to the Minister of Health will then be: I do not feel a government that is based, among other things. The Christian People's Party, as far as the selection of alcohol is concerned, that those who are going to check how this is done do so at least in line with the law, and that those who are going to control have the knowledge of the contents of the law to which they are going?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1543	What's the starting point, is that those who run a pendulum are supposed to know what it means, and they're going to follow the law. Responsible bulwark controller, etc. must have that knowledge. It has now been taken – and new steps – to ensure that. There is the most important quality control. Then it is, no matter how the municipality chooses to organise its servitude control, the municipality's responsibility that it keeps its goal, and to the extent that the municipality finds it flawed in this way, the municipality must take the necessary measures. I believe that it must be trusted that the municipality does, without us having to come up with new detailed rules in this area that govern municipal activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1550	The Minister of Health said that what is involved in the actual training of those who are going to exercise this control is important. Yes, there's the Minister of Health and I in line. It is important to operate in line with the laws and regulations of the Stortinget. But I also have to say that when you send out inspectors – because it is a requirement, it says in the law that it should be checked – then it must at least be a minimum requirement that those who have to check whether an enterprise complies with the law have knowledge of the law. There is no requirement for that today. I also have to say that I am worried that you are going to drive by the law, and then you send out inspectors who do not know what the law is about. How can you tell, when you get feedback to the municipality, that the restaurant has operated in line with the law? I also have to say with regard to restaurant owners and also with regard to eliminating conflicts, that there is little to ensure that the content of the alcohol law is available to control officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1561	There is no disagreement between the representative Nesvik and me as to the fact that the inspectors must be able to check the law they are going to implement. Of course they must. The question is whether municipal responsibility for that is the case needs to be further regulated in the form of detailed training requirements for these inspectors. We believe from the Ministry that there is no basis for setting such detailed requirements in the legislation. However, it should be clear that if the inspectors do not have the necessary competence and are unable to control the implementation of the legislation and legislation they respectfully have little to do as inspectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1572	This question, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1575	I ask the Minister of Health to answer my question to the Minister of Social Affairs. The question is: ‘The Social Act in the Chamber of Women has taken coercive decisions for a pregnant woman at month 7 of pregnancy. The decision is approved by the Constituent. Hordaland County does not have a treatment site to offer and refuse to pay treatment in an institution outside the county. Is this in accordance with the intentions of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1584	I would like to stress that it is very worrying when heavily burdened addicts, who need it, do not find room in institutions. At the same time, it is important to note that, following joint efforts from the Municipality of Women and the County of Hordaland, a solution was found in the specific case that is the starting point for the question. The aim of a rule that coercive decisions can be taken against pregnant drug addicts is to seek to prevent the child from being harmed. Enforcement decisions may be taken in situations where voluntary measures have proved inadequate and where the nature of drug abuse is such that it is likely that the child will be born with harm. In order for the law to function according to its intention, there is a pre-requisite that there are measures that can be used in these situations. However, it is not the case that a specific coercive decision triggers a municipal obligation to provide institutional space and a corresponding right for the individual drug addict to an institutional location. This is the result of the division of responsibilities between the county and the municipality: the starting point is that the municipality is responsible for providing appropriate measures for drug users, including ensuring that the drug user is accommodated in an institution if necessary and the conditions laid down in the law are met. The county council has a general responsibility to establish and operate institutions for drug users. They are also responsible for drawing up a plan to show how the county will meet current and future needs for institutional premises. The municipality and county council have no authority to instruct the county. Therefore, a concrete coercive decision does not impose an obligation on the county council to make available institutional space. However, this does not mean that the drug user is without rights. If the county does not provide institutional space after a coercive decision has been taken and the drug addict cannot take care of himself, the law requires that social services provide temporary measures if necessary. The government sees it as very important that county municipalities follow up their responsibilities under law and establish and operate a sufficient number of institutions. Not least for pregnant, heavily-burdened addicts in acute situations. The lack of capacity in parts of the treatment system was the main reason why the Minister of Social Affairs set up a working group, the Nesvåg Group, in December 1998, such as the United Kingdom. The overall daily treatment provision for drug users was assessed. The mandate of the group was also to consider any need for changes to the current system of responsibility allocation and funding for drug users. Furthermore, the group was to assess the cooperation between the institutions and the municipal social service with a view to ensuring continuity and coherence in the provision of individual services. If we are to obtain comprehensive solutions for users, it is absolutely necessary to achieve good and smooth cooperation between the levels of administration. The group’s reports have now been widely consulted, and the social minister is now going through the material carefully. The Annual Report on Care 2000 follows up some of the group’s recommendations, and there it is announced that the Government will return to the Stortinget with the follow-up of other proposals and recommendations in its own case. Furthermore, the Minister of Social Affairs has asked for a briefing from the County of Hordaland on their plans for the provision of institutions to drug users. The plan will be reviewed and discussed with the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1603	I thank you for your answer. It is unknown to me that this case found a happy solution, if you do not consider being in prison as a happy solution for a pregnant drug addict. In the Social Services Act, §6-2a, there is scope for forced entry for pregnant addicts, and decisions in this case were taken by the county council. Then it is a prerequisite in the Social Services Act that the county, which is obliged and responsible for institutional services in this area, also provide treatment facilities, which Hordaland County did not do in this case. They would also not pay for an provided space in, for example, the Telemark County, because the county council itself had introduced an inlet stop at its own institution. I would like to ask the Minister of Health whether, in addition to a statement from the County Council, there is a basis for giving Hordaland County Municipality a proper correction in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1614	I do not have any basis for further detail on the specific matter, but I assume that when the Minister of Social Affairs has asked for a more detailed briefing from the County Council of Hordaland, in the discussions I have announced that she will have with the County Council, she will also consider what kind of follow-up is necessary. I have to say, for my part, that, in addition to this, it is important to look at the continuity and coherence of the services offered by the different levels of government, and that is a central theme in the follow-up to the work of the Nesvåg Group. I think it will clearly be necessary here to consider changes in procedures in addition to what has to do with capacity, in order to ensure much more flexible cooperation and secure solutions in a different way from what was the starting point of this specific case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1621	The last of the Minister of Health's answers, I fully agree – something has to happen in this area. When it hasn't happened yet, it's because this group of suffering people are unfortunately little priority in our society. After the refusal of Hordaland County Council of Treatment, the woman has tempted a miserable life, and in the meantime she has also been in Bergen County Prison without adequate treatment for her drug problem. How is it possible to treat even a pregnant substance user in this inhumane way? Will the Minister of Health ensure that the pregnant woman in question receives immediate medical treatment so that the expected child does not suffer serious mental damage?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1628	I don't think it's right from Storting's pulpit to go into a specific matter in the way that the representative Alvheim now invites, but I just want to say that I have noticed the information he has brought forward, and will bring it back to the Social Minister for the follow-up to the matter that I have notified on her behalf in my main reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1643	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1649	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to Bergen’s Official Journal, the waiting time at Haukeland Hospital is so long and painful that Parkinson’s patients turn their backs on the hospital and ask for treatment in Oslo. The capacity of the neurosurgical unit shall be small and explosive and only the most acute cases of disease shall be treated. Providing help for a better life situation shall not be a priority. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Parkinson’s patients in the West receive treatment that is worthy of Norwegian health care?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1658	Neurosurgery is a field in which technological development has been and is enormous. Improved diagnostic and treatment equipment has provided significant benefits for the subject field, and ever-new patient groups have received a treatment offer. There has also been a significant increase in the activity of neurosurgical wards for many years — from 1995 to 1996, for example, the number of operations increased by 10 pst. Neurosurgery is a high-cost specialty that imposes great demands on advanced technical equipment and highly specialised personnel for its operation within a professionally sound framework. For patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease, two different surgical interventions have been offered in the last ten years. First, the destruction of small nuclear elements in the brain, thalatomy, and second, deep nuclear stimulation of the brain, pacemaker of thalamus. Hordaland County reported that at Haukeland Hospital it is now approx. 60 patients on the waiting list for these two forms of operative treatment in Parkinson’ s disease. Haukeland Hospital and the Rikshospitale have a combined nationwide function for these neurosurgery interventions, thus treating patients from all health regions at these hospitals. Operational capacity at Haukeland Hospital is currently mainly limited by the lack of capacity of operating rooms. There is currently, not a lack of operator or neurosurgery, but of post-operative surgery nurses, anaesthesia nurses and capacity in the intensive care unit. In the case of access to several operating teams, the operating capacity may increase in the existing operating rooms, despite lower neurosurgical operating room and bed capacity in Haukeland Hospitals than in hospitals in other health regions. My State Secretary had a meeting yesterday with representatives from the Hordaland County Municipality to discuss the issues related to this treatment offer at Haukeland Hospital. Rehabilitation of the undercapacity of the Haukeland Hospital Operations Department will depend on the county economy. As an immediate solution, the county council has asked the director of the hospital to take the necessary measures to ensure that the patient group in question is prioritised in accordance with the applicable national guidelines. It has not yet been decided whether to do so by strengthening its own processing capacity, by purchasing services from others or both. The County of Hordaland justifies the situation of a tight county economy and the lack of certain types of key personnel that have led to deficiencies in a number of hospital services. This is also stated to be the main cause of the lack of development of the neurosurgical supply in the West Health Region with the waiting list situation that has now arisen. In 1999, a working group appointed by the National Health Authority, the Cappelen Committee, gave a position on Norwegian neurosurgical activities. The setting reveals that the neurosurgical supply in Norway is weaker than in other Scandinavian and many European countries. A working distribution between the regional hospitals in the subject area is proposed in the section. I assume that Hordaland County Municipality and Health Region West, in line with other health regions, bases the proposals in this investigation on the development of the offer of Parkinson's patients in neurosurgery in general. I also assume that Hordaland County Council and Health Region West are taking hold of the situation in neurosurgery in connection with the ongoing work on a new regional health plan. It is also necessary to assume that the abovementioned investigation and other aspects of the capacity of neurosurgery on a national basis form part of the basis of regional planning. At the same time, I would like to point out that the right to free hospital choice to come into force during the current year could to some extent outweigh distortions in treatment capacity between states and regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1677	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a good and thorough answer. He referred to the guarantee adopted in Stortinget, but unfortunately Stortinget did so much in connection with the guarantee that it has come into the situation that as long as capacity is about to explode in the East too, the guarantee will not apply, because it will also have to be taken into account elsewhere. And it is therefore impossible to have the legal opportunity that the Progress Party wanted to use other treatment institutions, including private ones, to achieve this. I hope, however, that the Minister of Health will follow this matter further. I believe the Minister of Health and I agree on one point, and that is that it cannot be a geographical residence address that will determine whether or not to receive a relevant health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1684	I actually think the representative Nesvik and I agree on more points than what his remark now gave the impression. I did not refer to any guarantee – there is no guarantee in the Patient Rights Act – but, on the other hand, a right to free hospital choice has been adopted, and the right to free hospital choice will undoubtedly lead to a balance of inequalities between states and regions in the general hospital offer, in that it will be an incentive to apply for your waiting list being the shortest and offer the best. In this way, free hospital choice could also be a contribution in this area. But there can be no sleeping cushion either for the Western Health Region or for other health regions when they are now going to put their plans in line with taking such a capacity problem seriously. They have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1689	I agree with the Minister of Health the last time he said that it is at least clear. And one of the reasons I referred to this is that the Progress Party wants to have a guarantee of what you want to get. However, it is clear that when the right to free hospital choice is introduced, one must follow closely to see if it is being followed up in such a way as to be the intention of the Stortinge – that there will be a truly free hospital choice in Norway. I fear that as long as the State does not have the overall financial responsibility for our hospitals, some county councils will try to get away from it, and therefore I hope that the Minister of Health will at least follow closely in the development. I am also convinced that he will do so, and I am not going to go further to the debate that the State should take responsibility for the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1697	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘In 1984, the Stortinget decided that the Central Station for State Power’s facilities in Sogn would be established in Gaupne, Luster municipality. The concession decision was to be a ‘plaster on the wound’ after a broken promise of 300 jobs in relation to the Leirdøla extension in Luster some years earlier. State power has decided to downgrade the operating centre of a day-old man with a central reduction in manpower. Does the Council of State believe that such a decline in Gaupne in the municipality of Luster can be defended in relation to the decision of the Jostedal extension?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1706	The Storting consented to the regulation for the development of the Jostedal River on 15 May 1984. The municipality of Luster requested that the headquarters in the county be added to Luster. One of the arguments put forward by the municipality for this requirement was that the promise of jobs in the framework of the Leirdøla extension was not fulfilled. In St. prp. No 7 for 1983-84, the Ministry of Oil and Energy gave a decisive emphasis to the arguments put forward by the municipality, assuming that the centre of operation was added to Luster. The Ministry’s observations also show that what had been done in the context of the Leirdøla development was taken into account. Further comments on this matter were not submitted by the Department. Int. S. No 200 for 1983-84, the majority of members of the Committee on Energy and Industry supported the position of the Ministry of Oil and Energy with regard to the location of the centre and had no special comments on its location. I can't see that Statkraft's decision to classify the Central Station as a day-rider is contrary to the premise on which the permit was based. The assumption was that the operating centre should be located in the municipality of Luster, and that assumption is legally established. However, no comment, either by the Ministry of Oil and Energy or by the Stortinget, suggests that State power cannot determine whether the central centre should be manned by day or by day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1717	In any case, the Luster municipality has protested in the form of a letter to Statkraft, and the actual situation is such that one sees a likely chain reaction. When this station that we're talking about is the only one that has a big decision behind it, and there's only one new one in South Norway that's being maintained as a full-time employee, you see clearly that in the next round this could be zero. My question to the Council of State is: has any analysis been submitted to show the safety of stable power supply and the good control of regulated power watercourses during this restructuring?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1724	It's true that this central is the only one that has a big decision behind it. Based on the handling of the matter, it is my opinion that there is a clear condition that there should be an operating centre in Gaupne. On the other hand, when it comes to how it is organised, as I see it from the history of the Storting case, it cannot be considered that there is a condition attached to it. When it comes to the question of whether this could be the start of a further downgrading, I understand that from what I've done in the matter, the central centre of Gaupne is to be considered one of four equivalent operating centres, without necessarily meaning that the centres must be exactly the same. In the case of analyses related to the possible safety of the power system, I am not aware that further analyses have been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1733	I thank you for your answer. I interpret the Council's response so that it will be absolutely impossible at a later stage to cut out this central. Nevertheless, it might be interesting to know whether the Council of State will produce an analysis which will illustrate this development process and which will justify the plans of the State, and also to assure this community that the Ministry will respect the conditions as laid down in the Proposition and the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1738	The representative can certainly interpret my answer to that point that I perceive Storting's handling of this matter so that there is a condition that there should be an operating centre in Gaupne. Then I must also say that once I have gone through this matter, I have understood that it is not so thought by Statkraft that this overall will result in some significant reduction in manning if a chooses a reorganization. As far as the issue of equivalence is concerned, it is said that Gaupne should be considered as one of four equivalent operational centres, and that is the future organisation to which it is added. I do not ignore the fact that a detailed statement from Statkraft on how to imagine the future organisation based on four equivalent centres and how it will turn out in relation to safety and power supply can be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1748	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Utstein Monastery in Rogaland, the only preserved monastery in the country from the Middle Ages, is in the process of being confused. Three years ago, a damage report was prepared that was sent together with a reasoned application to the Riksantikvaren. There are still no answers from the Riksantikvar. At the same time, the building damage has gradually worsened, and it is in a hurry to repair it. When will the Council of State do anything about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1757	The state of Utstein Kloster has been assessed by the Riksantikvaren by studies both in 1991 and 1993 and by Nidaros Domkirke's restoration work in 1997. The reports are consistent as regards the state of the monastery and the priority measures to be taken. The damage to the plant is caused by slow weathering processes of salty cement mortar in the walls of the monastery. Salty cement mortar was widely used for the repair and maintenance of the monastery in the 1900s. The main part of the impending restoration work will therefore be scrapping away this cement and replacing it with traditional lime mortar, which does not cause similar damage. Like many other medieval buildings, Utstein Monastery needs restoration. I am therefore sorry that it has not been possible to set aside funds for this earlier. The application from the Utstein Kloster Foundation has been pending for an occasion of priority. But it is sad that the Riksantikvarn has not informed the Utstein Kloster Foundation about this. I am aware that in the middle of January this year there has been a contact between the Riksantikvaren and the foundation. This contact has provided further information to the Riksantikvaren on the state of the monastery, which will provide the basis for the evaluation of grants and follow-up during February. The Riksantikvar will also make an inspection of the monastery. I will now ask the Riksantikvaren to submit a proposal for follow-up to the state reports as soon as the inspection has been carried out, so that the restoration work can begin as early as the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1766	I would like to thank you so much for your answer! I was very happy about that. I couldn't believe it when I heard it. Utstein Kloster is in a special position as a national cultural memory and is for the most part ranked among the top ten cultural memories in this country. In addition, there is a lot of use. The background to my question is that the monastery is in the process of decay and confusion. The water drifts into the walls, with it following that the cushion falls off and the floorboard rots. We all know that for a longer wait with such maintenance, at a higher cost and worse, it's often multiple in relation to the starting point, when it was applied for 3 million. kr. And then my supplementary question: will the Council of State contribute to the fact that what is now needed to get this sorted out, will also be cleared forward until the work is done?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1775	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative's emphasis that this is a very important cultural memory, and that it is important to get started quickly. Let me also say that this is a cultural memory that, like many other cultural memories, has triggered great local commitment. We see that identity and belonging around that kind of cultural memory are important driving forces. Among other things, this local commitment has also shown that the representative Gunnar Kvassheim has previously engaged heavily on this issue. I agree with the representative when she says that my signals about getting started this year must be followed up. It's one of our major challenges in relation to cultural memory. It's a long-term work, and it's important that the projects you start are implemented. I therefore assume that when we start this work this year, first of all by replacing the mortar, it is of course followed up by the allocation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1782	In the plural commentary of the Budget indent. S. No 9 for 1998-99 under Chapter. 1429, the Riksantikvar, it is clear: ‘In particular, reference is made to the threat to the national Klenodium Utstein Kloster due to a lack of maintenance. The majority assume that these are among the tasks that are prioritised for the disposal of this item. The majority would also like to be briefed if it is such that the lack of appropriations causes irreparable damage to medieval buildings and installations.» I am very pleased that the Council of State will follow this up in the future. But then I wonder: Will the Storting in the future also be briefed if there are missing promises to such?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1792	There is no doubt that, in its majority remarks last year, the Committee has underlined the importance of the Utstein Monastery. I also want to highlight the exciting opportunities that now lie in the fact that in connection with Utstein Kloster we also have an area protection under the Cultural Memory Act that provides very exciting opportunities. When the budget was discussed before Christmas, one of the things the committee asked for was that the government should come back to Stortinget with a escalating plan in the cultural memory sector that allows us to preserve our important cultural memories and make sure they don't decay and wetter. Of course, the government will follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1804	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘On Friday 28 January 2000, the Minister for the Environment said to the TV news that she wanted to build a wolf trunk without too much dog interference. What does the Minister for the Environment put in such an opinion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1813	I have stated earlier in Stortinget's Question Time that it is not desirable to have a mixture of wolf and dog in Norwegian fauna. I have also said that if we can certainly say that there are such mixed animals in Norway, I will put in place the necessary measures to get them removed. The reason why we want to avoid crossings between wolf and domestic dog in the wild in Norway is that such wolf-dog hybrids provide opportunities for the further spread of genes from dogs. The Directorate for Nature Management has pointed out that this could have a negative impact on the few wolf populations found in South Scandinavia. In my response to an interpellation on 28 January, I briefed about investigations that have been carried out in connection with suspicions of wolf-dog crossings in a wolf herd in Østfold. The puppies in this flock are most likely the result of a cross between male and female wolves. The case has been followed up by the recent permission of the Directorate for Nature Management for the littering of the four mixed puppies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1822	It was in particular the statement ‘without too much dog interference’ that prompted me to respond. The intention has probably been that if we're going to have wolf, it should be in the sense wolf of pure strain. We are well-known through the media that it may have been done and hybrid breeding is taking place in Sweden. Could it have been released such hybrid wolves, which are now spreading? These include: killed two wolves in the Baltic Valley in recent times. One was sent to the United States for investigation. Have DNA tests been taken from these animals, and what do they show in case they do? It is also said that hybrid wolves behave differently and more dangerously than pure wolves. Among other things, it has been said from parts of the administration that the wolf does not jump over fences and does not attack the dog, for example. in built-up areas. We've seen examples of both of these. Can this indicate that we have more hybrid wolves in Norway than what may have come up to now? Shouldn't all the wolves, of those we know now, be tested?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1829	As a Westerner, I'm used to talking fast, but I don't know if I can answer all the questions I got in one minute, but I might get back to some of them in the next round. We are also familiar with the rumors that there has been the breeding of hybrids in Sweden, and that these should also be posted on the Norwegian side. We don't have any evidence to suggest that that's true. These were also rumors that went around the puppies in Eastfold. They have in retrospect proved to be a cross between a wolf whip in wild condition and a dog. Nor do we have reason to believe that there are elements of wolf hybrids in other parts of the Norwegian tribe. When it comes to the question of whether not all the wolves should be tested, I would like to stress that these are very complex and very expensive tests. I think it's a good idea to follow the line that you've put on so far, that there's a test that suspects that there might be hybrids.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1838	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I would like to say that the animals you have for autopsy and control, at least should be tested. I think it's a little bit suspicious that the administration now seems to signal a goal and a level of ambition that is different from what must well be the level of ambition for those who want the reintroduction of wolves, by saying that biologically speaking, there is no need to kill these hybrid wolves. And when the research and management stage says that, I think it's suspicious. The Svenska Naturschutzsföreningen came up with a large investigation in the 1970s when it concerned wolf. It appears that they have listed some wolves in the herd-book and that they are trying to follow the lines in the development of wolves. Is there such an entry and registration of the wolf in Norway, and should it not be followed up in this case by ensuring that at least it is pure wolf?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1845	To take the last one first, I agree that as far as possible you have to make sure that it is pure wolf we have in the Norwegian fauna. That is also why we have had a very clear view that, to the extent that it was possible to demonstrate that the puppies in Eastfold were hybrids, they should share. And so it's going to be done. I also agree with the representative that it should be tested where possible, for example. where you have the wolf that has been struck. At the same time, I would like to stress that these tests too are quite complicated, because they need to be compared with gene profiles and genetic material from the southern Scandinavian wolf trunk in order to be analysed. It is much easier to analyse if you can sample both a father and a mother — also among wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1862	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1868	‘Tipping and other gambling in many cases acts as an extra offer to many local merchants. Customers like to combine their daily shopping with the ability to perform different types of typing. As a result, the availability of gambling may distort competition between shops. What is the basis for this criterion, and how are commissioners picked out and distributed from the Norwegian Typing page?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1875	Norwegian Tipping today has approx. 3 800 commissioners, and Norway is thus the world's country with the highest level of commissioners compared to the population. The company does not plan for a significant increase in this Commission figure. The challenge is to further develop and manage the Commission mass. However, there will always be movement in the Commission mass on the basis of closures, withdrawals and re-establishments. Norwegian Typing therefore expects to approx. 80 new Commissions will take place in 2000. Norwegian Typing shall, by law and by instructions, be operated in accordance with commercial principles in order to maximise profits for the benefit of the beneficiaries. Such principles thus govern the establishment of new sales links, as there is a high cost of setting up and operating the company's commissioners. On the basis of the existing framework conditions and on the basis of the product portfolio of the company, the setting-up of a commissioning body places emphasis on being available where people travel. With regard to the establishment of new positions, the company works according to established guidelines and delineated procedures, both in respect of the processing of applications for employment and the granting of commissions. The Norwegian Typing criteria for the award of such appointments have not been changed in recent years. Consideration is given to the following criteria: location and availability of opening hours net of sales of goods Number of customers per. week and pattern of action expected turnover will and competence to prioritize games of the store or kiosk professional Mik's credit rating From more subordinate criteria, we can mention distance to the nearest commissioner and sales area In smaller agglomerations/local communities, the number of households and their infrastructure will also have a significant impact on the award of commissioning. Norwegian Typing wants to be as accessible as possible to the public, even in smaller places. But the company must, of course, take into account what is good business practice. This means that, in smaller places, it would often be economically sound to establish only one commissioner on the basis of the above criteria. The company is aware of the competitive consequences of choice of Commissioners in different locations, and attaches great importance to treatment and local knowledge by examining the application by the company’s local sales manager. The Norwegian Tipping Regional Manager promotes the rejection of an application or employment as a commissioner, while the company has a final decision on the basis of established guidelines. Norwegian Typing has gone a long way to meet the district stores. Among other things, Norwegian Typing participates in a project in collaboration with Merchantian competence programme for the edge shops in the regions – Merkur – where 14 edge shops have received a commission in a test project. This project shall include, inter alia: identify the impact of the introduction of games as an additional function for the district store. The Mercury project ends in the summer of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1915	It may be strange that one who is really very opposed to gambling is dealing with such a problem. However, as long as there are actually many local local retailers who have major problems because they are not able to offer their customers this type of service, it is nevertheless a very relevant question. I am therefore pleased that a project has been launched to address these questions and to monitor the impact of the introduction of games as an additional function for district stores. That's what I thought was positive. But I also think it's important to ask yourself what kind of an example. can develop new technologies that make it cheaper and easier to place this type of service in several places, so that more shops can benefit from it. I also thought that there should be questions about whether it is right that two shops that are close to each other, both of them should have such an offer, while one that is a little peripheral compared to the two shops, does not have such an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1922	I agree with the representative Tveiten that the project Merkur is interesting, and I look forward to getting the results for the summer. I think that might give us useful information. As far as technology development is concerned, there is a question that Norwegian Typing is fundamentally concerned about. I'm sure it's right to say that Norwegian Typing today operates with very advanced systems. However, we also know that developments in this area are enormous and that new technological solutions will also be available on the market in the future. I am convinced of that, and of course it could also make it easier to have more commissioners if Norwegian Typing believes that it is right. With regard to the distribution in one place, I would like to point out that it is the local sales managers who make those assessments, and that is to the point you should then address.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1931	I understand that it is actually the local regional bosses who are crumbling here. And it might well be in place that the Minister of Culture spoke to Norwegian Typing about the fact that they have an even greater focus on this by having a distribution in the regions that at least leads to the fact that not two shops that are completely clumsy on each other are supposed to have the supply, while there is a store in an area that has a certain population concentration, cannot offer these types of services. Because it's actually – I've heard it from Veitastrond, Feste Handel in Glesnes in Hordaland and not least from Klockkarvik in Hordaland – a big problem. People are in danger of losing their local store supply, because people rather trade with those who are more in a mall and can offer these kinds of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1936	Norwegian Typing, as I mentioned, is operated according to law and instructions according to business principles. The goal is, of course, that they should have the greatest possible profit, so that we can benefit from that surplus for important social purposes. There is no doubt that there is a relevant issue raised. When the report from the Merkur project is available, I will have the opportunity to address the questions on a professional basis, and of course I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1946	I will ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘In central parts of the country, viewers today have access to many different channels through cable distribution. In the districts, viewers have very few channels, and it is not relevant for companies to build new cable networks here. In the introduction of digital television, this difference will be levelled and districts will have the same offer as central districts have had for a long time. Will the Council of State ensure that the debate on the NRK2 and its further development do not delay the possibility for districts to receive the same offers as the central ones?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1955	The representative Alstad asks if I will ensure that the debate on the further development of the NRK2 does not delay the development of digital television. I refer to the processing of digital television broadcasts before Christmas last year, where the department was asked to assess whether it is possible to release frequencies, so that the capacity of digitally based television can be increased beyond what we had proposed. I have therefore started a review of the availability of television frequencies. It is therefore premature to say something very precise about the consequences of increasing the development of NRK2 for digital development. However, after the data we have built up to now, it seems quite clear that we cannot increase the distribution of NRK2 in the ground net, without this in an unacceptable way limiting our future space of action. Increased expansion of NRK2 will also be very costly. I am therefore afraid that prioritising the use of frequency resources to the NRK2 could lead to a longer period of time before the entire population receives a digital TV offer. As you know, ground-based digital TV provides better use of frequency resources, allowing more TV channels to become nationwide, and we also have opportunities to increase coverage for NRK2. I would like to state again that the NRK2 has the coverage that Stortinget provided when the NRK agreed to start the channel. Increased expansion of NRK2 can be difficult to defend as long as it can complicate the expansion of digital television with increased capacity. As I also mentioned in the questionnaire last week, we attach great importance to finding solutions that enable us to cover as large a part of the country as possible when digital TV is to be introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1964	I have noticed that this debate comes up again on the initiative of just those forces that were opposed to introducing the NRK2 in the previous round. One can therefore ask the question whether this is just another attempt to sabotage the implementation of the NRK2. As you know, the licence was not increased as a result of the creation of the NRK2 either. Now the license is not linked to the NRK at all, it's actually a tax on the TV, but it's a perspective we often forget about in this debate. One might sometimes ask himself the question: how sensible are NRK's programme arrangements? Fortunately, it's not the job of Stortinget to make such arrangements, but I have noticed that NRK's ability to move popular applications from NRK2 to NRK1 and also to send them in reprise on NRK1 so that as much as possible can access them. Now we know that cleaning up the frequency network can contribute to improvements, and that has also been asked by Stortinget in connection with the processing of this digital message. What I want to stress a little bit is that now we don't have to get into a situation where we in the districts are deprived of the possibility of gradually getting the digital age across us, we need to get the same TV offer that people in central Europe have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1973	I can only join everything Alstad said. Our starting point for this work is, as I said, to ensure good coverage across the country of as many channels as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1981	I will ask the Minister for Culture the following question: ‘The recording criteria for participating in the new basketball league include, inter alia, the economy, recruitment, level of sport, profiling and event/arrangement. One of the teams is not allowed to participate because the hall capacity is too poor, although they are considered sporty enough. The ranking in sport has so far been sporty, and it is entirely new sports practice in Norway to disqualify sportsmen who are sporty enough. Can the Council of State support such an unsportslike setting up of the basketball league?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e1990	The 2000 Basketball League is an alliance of clubs affiliated to the Norwegian Basketball Federation. The background to the plans for the creation of the new basketball league is a desire to increase interest in basketball in Norway and to develop Norwegian basketball on the men's side. The league will be based on a licensing system where several different criteria will be essential for licensing to the individual club. No specific figure has been set for the number of clubs to be included in the league in the years to come, so that the clubs not initially licensed will be able to join. The plans for the creation of the Basketball League in 2000 have been dealt with both by the Federation and the Board of Directors of the Norwegian Basketball Association. Furthermore, it is provided that in April of this year the Federation will formally adopt the statutes of the League and give its formal agreement. According to the laws of the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee, each special association is the highest professional authority in the field of its sport. NIF has also clearly expressed to the Basketball Association that they regard the Basketball League as an interesting and exciting organisational innovation and that they cannot see any particular legal or sporting policy problems in this context. I interpret the representative Fossum to that point that she wants the Ministry of Culture to intervene in relation to the assumptions of the new basketball league. This would in that case constitute a clear breach of traditional cooperation with the NIF. The Ministry deals with NIF as an umbrella organisation for its voluntary sports organisations, and in this context tries to balance the consideration of state governance towards the autonomy of sports organisations. In the case in question, the Ministry considers that changes to the competitive regime and rules applicable to individual specialised sports are primarily a matter for sport itself. From the information received by the Ministry in relation to the questions raised by the representative Fossum, it appears that funds to the Norwegian Basketball Association, through the NCI, have not been used for league preparation or the league clubs concerned, either in 1999 or this year. In cases where conditions clearly conflict with the assumption of state aid to the sports organisations, it may be appropriate for the Ministry to promote specific views towards the NCI. In the case in question, the break-up system, a characteristic of European sport, can be discussed to the greatest extent. The same applies to the requirements for media adaptation of arenas and events and, where appropriate, disregard for social policy considerations. However, I cannot see, in my knowledge of the new basketball league, that there are today circumstances that would make it possible for the ministry to intervene in the matter at hand. But I can assure the representative Fossum that the department will closely monitor developments in sport in the future, especially with regard to the consequences of the strong market and media adaptation of both top and top-level sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2007	I had not expected any other answer than what I received from the Council of State now. My question was not whether to intervene in this, but whether you had any views about changing a course of sport policy. We have so far seen Norway as unproblematic in relation to, for example: serial systems – those involved are highly skilled – but here in the basketball league we have a system that allows the clubs to apply. Then they'll be picked out, and they'll get a license for two years. Then it will very often be that there is not a ‘stop-out — not cutting’ that disqualifies you to be on board, but it is whether you have hall capacity, economics, etc., which is the reason. What does the Council of State think about such a way of doing sports, whether in basketball, ice hockey or football – does she not have any views on that particular issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2014	As I said in my first answer to the representative Fossum, the conditions she mentions are questions that we are concerned about and follow closely. I said in my answer that my starting point is that the new basketball game is basically a matter of sport, but of course, questions can be asked by a serial system that is not based on the traditional principles of ups and downs, and where other elements than the sporting level are the basis for the selection of participating clubs. However, it is not entirely new in Norwegian sport that demands are made on the economy of top sports clubs, for example. in recent years, several top football clubs have been threatened with depopulation in the divisional system as a result of large deficits and poor economic governance. So also in other cases there have been situations where non-sports relations have been given weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2021	Yes, I notice that the Council of State has listened carefully to the Basketball Association when she gives her answer to me today. But there has to be something that makes us sports politicians say about some important principles. We've done it once before. It was in a winter Olympics, where 93 coaches and sports executives were sent, and 91 of them were men. Then Stortinget pointed out that something should be done about it, and that has happened. What I want the Council of State to say – because I feel in a way that she agrees with me in exactly that – is that the audience has to feel the excitement of a fight. In a qualification match, it is the last goal that determines whether you win or not, but here is a licence and an application to decide whether or not to join. By not taking a stand on this matter, does the Council of State not take the tension from the audience and thereby indirectly participate in destroying Norwegian sport?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2028	I am concerned that we need to find the right balance between the autonomy of sport and the problems of governance on our part. There is a slightly special issue in this case, in the light of the fact that the Basketball Association indicates that no tipping agents have been used to develop the league. But I think, as the representative Fossum, that we don't very disagree on this matter. I hope that the questions raised in this debate will be taken into account both in the Norwegian Sports Association and in the further work of the Basketball Association in this matter, because as I also explained in my first answer, you are still in a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2038	I will ask the Minister for Culture the following question: ‘The evening post on 3 February 2000 indicates that the Council of State has personally called potential sponsors to raise money for the Ibsen Festival. Normally, a government council grants money to culture over the state budget, and any sponsorship effect with the expected return of a central government member is fundamentally objectionable. How does the Council of State view this issue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2047	With few exceptions, Norwegian cultural institutions are entirely dependent on public operating appropriations or operating grants in order to achieve balance in the annual accounts. However, there is broad consensus that cultural institutions are equally fully responsible for obtaining own resources. In addition to ordinary ticket receipts and the like, some institutions also have a doubtful potential to obtain contributions from sponsors. Sponsorship is, in my opinion, unproblematic as long as there is no conflict between business assumptions for any contribution and the artistic or cultural interests and plans of the cultural institution concerned. Experience suggests that such dilemmas rarely occur. As far as my overview goes, cultural institutions have good experience with sponsors. It is important to maximise the potential for sponsorship. Business is less involved in financing cultural life in Norway than is the case in a number of other countries. Sponsoring could provide institutions with an important boost beyond the level of activity made possible by ordinary operating grants and revenue. Of course, it is the individual institution itself that has to make sure to obtain sponsors. However, the Ministry is committed to having an understanding of how business actors think and assess when it comes to requests from cultural institutions for financial contributions. It appeared to me as a serious cross of thought when even a central cultural event such as an Ibsen festival at the National Theatre was able to capture the business interest. This was my starting point for contacting a handful of sponsors who had previously contributed to the Ibsen festival. In this particular case, I wanted to clarify why they no longer found this measure attractive enough, and to point out the importance of the festival. If the case is angled such that some newspapers have chosen to do, a principal dilemma may arise. I would like to stress that the companies I was in contact with do not have a relationship with the Ministry of Culture in other contexts that update the type of issues that appear to be in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2062	I thank the Minister for the answer. I have also read an interview in the Evening Post on 6 February, where she says that she does not regret the round she made for former sponsors of the Ibsen festival. She claims correctly in the interview that it was not to ask for more money, but to ask why they were no longer sponsors, and perhaps to inspire them to continue to be. I don't see the huge differences in principle in calling and asking someone to be sponsors and investigating why they aren't. It is true that when you call as Minister of Culture, you are a slightly different person than when you are employed at the Ibsen Festival, and you are employed there to obtain sponsorship. Does the Minister of Culture not see that it is not possible to be the Minister of Culture to conduct outreach activities to sponsors?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2073	I can assure the representative Fossum that I have not in any way intended to become a sponsor agent, either for the Ibsen festival or for other cultural events in Norway. My concern has been that I am generally concerned with sponsorship for cultural purposes, not as a substitute for state funding, but as a supplement. And the Ibsen festival is interesting, because the festival has previously been favored with sponsorship. I had a series of interesting conversations when I was in contact with a handful of former sponsors, which I believe brought useful information to me, also in relation to how we can contribute to professionalising the work of cultural institutions but sponsorship.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2080	I thank the Minister for the answer. I have to say that I think maybe the Minister of Culture could get the useful information in a slightly different way and at a slightly different time from these possible sponsors. Because after what I also see in the evening post, it is the Kreditskasen, who is in one case in Stortinget on the merger of credit institutions, that is Dagbladet, who is in the search for VAT on ransom newspapers now, which is under the portfolio of the state council, and that is Telenor, with which we have another case going on in Stortinget. That means that these people might have called, in a way have some kind of dependency on the Storting. And then the conversations begin to become interesting. Because it is the case that regardless of whether you are a non-profit sponsor – as the state is, giving the money and expecting little back – business expects something. And it's especially when the Minister of Culture goes into one festival and says this is so special that here I have to investigate. So my question to the Minister of Culture is, will she do that job again?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2089	First of all, let me make it clear that the evening post does not have a correct list of the previous sponsors I have been in contact with. As for the last question, if I want to do the job again, the situation is that I want to continue to work on sponsorship as a theme, but not, as I said, on the assumption that it should in some way be substituted for government appropriations. I'm going to fight for those appropriations through traditional channels. But I think it's relevant to have a dialogue with business so that our institutions that are favoured by significant government funds can do their job even better, and that we can increase the cultural activities of the country in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2100	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Norwegian fish exports came up about 30 billion. kroner last year and has the potential to become multiple. Market access is the factor that will largely determine this. Through the new bidding round, Norway has a unique chance of improving the market access for fish, thus facilitating further growth in Norwegian fisheries. Norway lacks its own fisheries council at the WTO delegation in Geneva. What is the Government’s strategy to advance Norwegian fishing interests towards the next WTO round?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2109	The fishing industry has enormous potential. Exports have increased from DKK 1.7 billion in 1970 to DKK 30 billion in 1999, and Sintef has outlined possible exports in 2030 of DKK 240 billion. I fully agree that market access for fish and fish products is crucial for the further development of the industry and the ability to exploit the potential for value creation. The Government will therefore continue to place great emphasis on the preparations for the forthcoming WTO negotiations. A broad round of negotiations is under way in which negotiations on market access for industrial products, including fish, are taking place. In the view of the Government, it would not be sufficient to initiate negotiations on the built-in agenda, i.e. agriculture, services and trade aspects of intellectual property rights. The main WTO Council in Geneva must now work, on the one hand, to improve the WTO as an organisation and, on the other hand, to prepare the basis for the holding of a new Ministerial Conference. A good craft must be done to avoid repetition of the Seattle Conference. It may therefore take some time before discussions on issues other than the embedded agenda are launched, and it is important to use other forums and international talks for discussions on forthcoming WTO negotiations. Both the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and I are therefore addressing the WTO issue in discussions with colleagues in other countries. For example, during his stay in Davos, the Prime Minister addressed the issue. The Minister for Foreign Affairs had the question on the agenda on his trip to Asia. I want to visit Japan for a while, and forthcoming WTO negotiations will be the most important item on the agenda for the political talks with my colleague there. WTO negotiations are also the subject of very many international meetings carried out by the Office. The Ministry of Fisheries, in cooperation with the Committee on Fish Exports, has launched an investigation and analysis work in 1999 which continues for the current year. The aim is to clarify all relevant issues that may arise in the context of the negotiations. The material shall help to lay the foundations for positions and priorities in the negotiations on liberalisation in trade in fishery products. With regard to the position of the Geneva Fisheries Council, I would like to make it clear that the position is now to be published. The aim is to have the Fisheries Councils in place in Geneva during the year. Finally, I would like to refer to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement to the European Parliament on 20 December 1999 on the WTO following the Seattle Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2124	Vesle Norway is the world's largest fish exporter, and since our own market is strongly restricted, we are totally dependent on market access. It poses many challenges. It is estimated that 1 000 tonnes of salmon for the processing industry provide work for 30 persons on an annual basis. Today, most of this raw material forms the basis for jobs outside our borders, and that is the loss of value for Norway. And what's the reason for this? Yes, there are high customs walls for further processed product. In my opinion, we have no time to miss, and the aim of having a Fisheries Council in place in Geneva during the year is, in my view, defensive. If the potential of the Norwegian fishing industry is to be activated, we must be up early every day any one of us. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Fisheries: does he hesitate to get the Council of Fisheries in Geneva at a speedy pace?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2129	Why do I hesitate? I'll say the opposite. We don't hesitate, we've decided now, and we're starting the call process. So we also want to add this person as soon as we get a qualified person in place. So I just want to say, don't hesitate!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2134	I am very pleased that the Minister for Fisheries does not hesitate, but when one of them is going to aim to get this Council of Fisheries in place during this year, it is a little too wide an agenda, you ask me. And I'm not in doubt that the government is flagging WTO issues when they're out traveling. My question is, to what extent are they flagging fishing issues when they're traveling? Japan is one of the nations that we really need to convince with regard to our strategies, so I want the Minister of Fisheries to be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2139	I just want to repeat that this with the Fisheries Council will be carried out as soon as practicable. We have to get a good candidate in place, and we have to get that system properly in place so that he can do a good job. But we want the pace of the matter. As regards the extent to which the Government is flagging fisheries issues, I would like to stress that on the Government's agenda, fisheries issues are very high, and among other things. on my trip to Japan in a week and a half, I will raise that question with my Japanese colleague. And I want to put all the emphasis on completing the Norwegian positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2149	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The marking and maintenance of the marks in our fairways has, in the view of the coastal population, declined over a long period of time. The default is weakened, and a number of stacks and other tags need renewal. In addition, the need for increased lighting in quick-boot ladders and the upgrading of lighting in the existing less coastal fleet leader will be added. Does the Council of State see this problem, and what will be done to improve conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2158	The Coastal Plant is responsible for the operation and maintenance of nearly 19800 coastal navigation aids. Due to tight frameworks for fireworks and branding services over several years, there is a clear need for maintenance and renewal. That is where I agree with Mr Bastesen. This is also mentioned in the draft budgets for 1999 and 2000. Due to these tight frameworks, the Coastal Plant has deliberately prioritised the operation of the lighting rather than general maintenance. With such strict prioritisation of maintenance on those installations of greatest importance for navigation, it is difficult to keep all installations in a satisfactory condition, given the financial framework we have today. Many fixed installations are damaged. This may give rise to an increased risk of navigational accidents in some of our fairways. In the revised budget for 1998, the Stortinget agreed that funds earmarked for the installation of new lamps and lanterns should be re-allocated to maintenance. In 1998 and 1999, therefore, efforts on the maintenance side have been slightly higher than in previous years. The coastal works have implemented measures to improve the efficiency and quality of maintenance work. In order to achieve the best possible results, contacts with the professional community outside the establishment stage have been established, which will also contribute to training and evaluation. The size plus 10 million. kr for maintenance this year. These means will be used for general maintenance measures. For the current year, the Stortinget has again granted funds for re-marking. Of 5 million. kr available is 3 million. kr distributed to Rogaland and Hordaland, and 2 million. kr distributed to Nordland. The need for speedboat links is of the highest priority. For the amount allocated we can therefore set up approx. Twenty new candles. Preliminary monitoring of the need along the coast shows that it is needed approximately. 140 million. kr for new lighting. The estimate is based on the continued use of our current nocturnal standard. Should the standard be increased and the means of assistance e.g. more closely, the amount will increase. If efforts are also to be increased by lighting in the less used shore-side members, which are now often marked by reflective iron rods, it will require very large investments. I am aware of and keenly concerned about increasing the safety of the fairways along the coast. The safety challenge will be the main theme of the national transport plan presented in this year. Safety issues will also be central to the notification of the coming autumn fireworks service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2178	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He is in the unique situation that he is now sitting as a fisheries minister and can do something about this problem. He comes from a district where this is urgent. There is the manager, as I mentioned instead, who lacks labelling, and there is the manager who has marks that need to be maintained. This applies to the whole of the Helgeland coast in the north. We need to highlight a new link on the west side of Vega – and the need to get that member in place has been there ever since Harald Warholm’s time. But I'm going to give the council a good advice. The iron element with reflexes, i.e. normal supports, is growing down of mingles. Wasn't it an idea to let some schoolchildren in the summer get a tart dish and a bucket of white paint, put them in a boat with an oesophagus and send them out to scrape away the mingle and fry tar on these supports and paint the wooden gates white, so it becomes visible in the trail north across the coast? As it is now, it bears witness to maturity simply. And it costs a little money!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2185	Like the Bastesen representative, I come from a district north of City. But I would like to stress that the problem that we have discussed here today applies to the whole of the coast – from the east to the south to Finnmark in the north. I want to underline it, so there's not going to be a point where the two of us come from. There is a need for new brands and better brands in many places. I am very concerned that we should be able to make the best use of our resources, so that we have the opportunity to do something that really helps to increase safety. Therefore, safety is also a major focus of the national transport plan, which we are dealing with just these days. With regard to the question of youth and summer jobs and the scraping of marks, I would like to say that I will pass on the proposal to see if it is possible to do so. I'm not sure the answer today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2194	I must have another little comment at the end. It's nice that the Council of State takes my proposal to the Department. It does not have to cost several thousand kroner a day, which it costs to have a boat from the Coastal Works lying down and doing normal maintenance work on these seamarks. This is an excellent summer job for the youth. But there is one more thing that I would like to point out and that should be given priority. On the coast we have several places where the stakes are used under the water hull and in reality is a danger to the smaller coastal fleet that travels in the joints in the districts. Something has to be done. I am aware that it is very weather-dependent, but it is also a matter of looking at the weather reports and being flexible, so that you can set up new stakes when they are just broken. Of course, this is not a problem that only concerns the Helgeland coast and the Rørvik area, but it concerns the whole coast – and we have a long, long coast, so it's an incredible amount of work. And then there are questions about being able to do things in an untraditional way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2205	I can assure the representative Bastesen that I will be untraditional, if that is practicable and feasible. I fully agree with the problem. We need to do something to improve labelling and ensure maintenance along the lines. We've seen of the accidents that have occurred lately, that it's a terrible situation. Of course, I want to work hard and hard to make sure that we get a better situation. It is an economic issue that we must also work on – I stress it – and that will be addressed with Stortinget at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2212	That being the case, it is no. 1 ready-to-use.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-09.ana.ud1955e2221	There is no record available.
