ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e39	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Margith Johanne Munkebye is dead, 89 years old. Margith Munkebye was the payroll representative of the Workers' Party from Nordland County in the period from 1958 to 1973, from 1955 to 1957 she was a permanent deputy. During those years she was a member of both the Administrative Committee, the Social Committee, the Municipal Committee and the Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Committee. In her early days at Stortinget, there were only eight women’s representatives, and Margith Munkebye can rightly be described as an early pioneer among women’s top politicians. Margith Munkebye came early into the labour movement. Already in 1930 she became chairman of Bodø Arbeiderungschlag. Later, she became president of the South Salt District of the Young People's Party and was given the primary responsibility for repatriation of the youth movement in this district. Margith Munkebye carried out the demanding task to everyone's satisfaction, and the AUF in the South salt became stronger than ever before. The committee positions show that Margith Munkebye had a broad field of interest. Nevertheless, social questions were her heart's closest. For many years she was the driving force in the Nordland district team of Norsk Folkehelp and member of the organisation's main board. As a member of the Social Committee at Stortinget, she was given the opportunity to work on the issues that raised her most strongly, and she was rapporteur for a number of major and important issues. Margith Munkebye was both respected and popular in big circles. There was also not much fornication with her. In the sounding salt-washing dialect, she entered the Stortinge eloquent chair. Gradually, her male colleagues and state councillors had to stretch arms – they began listening to what she said. In his home country Margith Munkebye had an unusually strong position. She was known as an inspiring and temperate speaker. She had a lot of work capacity, and the list of trust positions is long. Among other things, she has been active in the municipal policy of Bodø for several years, a member of the city board from 1951-55, chairman of the Sør-Salten Arbeiderparti, deputy to the National Government of the Workers' Party and a member of the board of the Workers' Party's large-scale group from 1965-73. As a member of the Council of Europe in the years 1965-73, she became a convinced European, and she made a strong commitment to the 'yes' side of the Community case. Although this position cost her the place on the Stortinget, she held on to her conviction. ‘For me, the issue of peace and cooperation in Europe comes first in everything else’, she said in an interview in 1985. Margith Munkebye was a brave, strong and committed woman, who devoted many years of her life to active social inclusion. In deep respect, we bring peace to her memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e63	The representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Terje Søviknes, has taken the seat. The representative, Einar Steensnæs, has applied for leave on 13 and 14 December in order to attend a Security Policy Seminar directed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Affairs, in Moscow. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Olaf Gedrem, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e91	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e94	On behalf of Lars Sponheim and myself, I would like to propose transparency in the work of the big business committees and a registration system for lobbying in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e99	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before dealing with the issues on today's map, the President will propose that the morning's meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President proposed that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e124	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 20 minutes each, Right 15 minutes, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and Left 10 minutes each, and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e135	The problems in Norwegian transport are many, and in some cases they are large. Various accidents during the last year have underlined the seriousness of all of this. In addition, there has been almost a constant operational crisis in the rail sector in this country. The year’s draft budget is also the last in the planning period. One can therefore now evaluate the achievement of the goal in relation to the plan we have been working on. It is also a very pleasurable reading. We have almost not achieved a single target, either in terms of reduced transport costs, or even worse: the target figures for damage and death in traffic. In terms of appropriations, the budget relating to the Coastal Plant comes out with satisfactory targets, but there is one exception that confirms the rule. The period is characterized by semi-finished projects that laugh at you all over the country. Municipalities, county councils and toll companies have, in desperation, spearheaded both planned and started projects. Projects thus become more expensive than necessary, because of course the money has to be borrowed in a private bank at a high interest rate. At the same time as it has collected more tolls than ever, the State has significantly reduced its own efforts in relation to the plan. Of course, the previously mentioned failure to achieve the target is due to a lack of appropriations, or a lack of willingness to follow up the appropriations we raised in 1997. This negative trend has been over several years, but the budget submitted by the Labour Party for 2001 is the worst. The budget is in stark contrast to what many workers' party representatives have said about transportation during the year we have behind us. Among other things, Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, Sylvia Brustad, said on Thursday 4 May in his statement on regional and regional policy: ‘Better road standards are particularly important in order to enhance the competitiveness of business in these areas.’ — In other words, districts. Hordaland Labour Party stated in a resolution at its annual meeting on 11 and 12 March this year: ‘Hordaland Arbeidarparti has proposed that the framework for environmental and transport projects be significantly increased in relation to the Bondevik Government’. The answer was reduced appropriations for roads, rail and aviation. The appropriations were reduced by a total of 660 million. kr in relation to the current year. Taking purely budgetary changes, the reduction in the total budget comes to nearly a billion. Of course, we're not close to solving the problems that the sector has. That is why the budget was also met with headshaking from all those who have some idea of what is involved in Norwegian transport. Through the conciliation with the centre, the budget has been strengthened somewhat. It deserves considerable commendation from the centre. In fact, it looks as if the centre parties are more useful for Norwegian transport outside the government offices than they were when they were put in them. During the period, the right has submitted draft budgets on which transport has been a priority. If these proposals had been adopted, achievement would probably be far more positive than what we can now read. The right-hand draft budget for 2001 is also better in terms of trade than the reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the Centre. When the right will increase the resources of Norwegian transport, it is primarily to reduce transport and environmental pressures and, secondly, to facilitate increased economic value creation in mainland Norway. But if we are to solve the problems related to feasibility, while reducing the environmental impact, it is also necessary to do something about public transport. The right considers that some important steps need to be taken to achieve this. It is necessary to convert parts of the current public transport aid, including: to make it much more economically interesting for operators to acquire new collective customers. Therefore, the right has much to do with the proposal that SV has made, linked to such a scheme. However, the Committee is now required to hold an information meeting on such arrangements, including: With TØI in the near future. The right will therefore come back to this during the treatment of the national transport plan, but I would stress that the intention, as I read the SV's proposal, of some sort of reward as part of the scheme, is Right-wing in agreement. What may disappoint me the most is that no more would support the excellent proposal for a youth card for the whole country. We believe that cheap youth cards could help more young people travel collectively, which in the long run could have a very positive effect on learning young people up to the use of collective means of transport. Right is happy that SV here supports us, but would like to see other parties also do that. I have noticed that the centre has expressed itself positively to the idea of a youth card – or an extension of the Youth Card scheme, it is probably more correct to say – but that remains true. In the West we have an expression that 'there is hope in hanging cords'. When you read the comments from the centre, you might get a hope that this could be a different and better outcome when we come to the treatment of the national transport plan. Several positive instruments need to be used to achieve what we all want to do, to increase the number of collective travel. A tool that has had a positive and good effect is the express buses – amazingly enough. It has not been very easy to get Stortinget to open up the free establishment of express buses, it has not actually been completed yet. For some people, at least it seems this way, it has been more important to protect the NSB from any kind of unpleasant competition than to give the most people a good offer. It is disappointing that the majority now reduces the small amount of support that the express buses received in due time to compensate for the loss of free diesel. Success in public transport can now have considerable difficulties. The result could be more cars on the roads, the exact opposite of what we're all saying that we want. Get it, whoever can. In addition to the increased economic resources and the system changes I mentioned earlier, there is a need to make significant organisational changes in Norwegian transport. It is necessary to streamline the use of resources, including: through increased competition. There is no reason to maintain heavy public monopolies when it is obvious that consumers will be much better served by more players and increased competition. Because it's not that the Post exists for the Post itself, and that the NSB exists for the NSB itself. In fact, they are for consumers. It is therefore totally unacceptable for consumers to suffer because, for example: The Labour Party believes that it is more important to protect State monopolies than to offer good offers to consumers. An example of this is NSB BA. This year has been a difficult year — to put it mildly — for rail transport in Norway. All the offers related to the NSB have been mistrusted in many ways by most people. It's true that the Right now cuts for the purchase of services from the NSB. Why do we do that? Well, that's to give a clear signal: if you have a monopoly company that has no monopoly rights and no competition, and you buy services from such a company, you have to assume that the services you buy are delivered. No one has to come and tell me that it's the same if the NSB replaces its routes with buses. If this house wanted NSB's routes to be covered by bus services, we could get them at a much lower price than what we pay for rail services, we all know that. It's just looking at the express buses, we see it. That means that it must initially be possible in this house to demand that what we order, and what we pay for, we should have that left in services. It seems to me that there are significant problems associated with it – in addition to this. I now assume that at some point we are being informed about how the NSB is going to get out of this system and out of the crisis they are in. Then the Right is willing to come back and give the NSB the framework conditions to which it is going. For the services that we collectively believe the NSB is to provide, it is to be paid by this house. But we don't pay for services that consumers don't get – it's not a right system, it's a wrong system. Indeed, it allows for inefficiency and lack of internal concentration related to efficient driving. I think that's perfectly obvious to most people. Nothing would please me more – no, nothing would please me more – than if during the spring we were to see that NSB powers to deliver its services. I shall be the first to wish it welcome with all my heart. Then, as I said before, we will also come back in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget and ensure that they have framework conditions that enable them to continue working, for the benefit of the consumer. For information, the right will vote against the draft budget of the Centre and the Workers' Party. And then I take up the suggestions that the Right has advanced in this matter alone, or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e181	Oddvard Nilsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e186	I have disagreed here in a number of cases with the committee leader Nilsen, especially when we have discussed railway issues. It's okay, it's fair, and it's clean. Especially when it comes to fundamental issues, we sometimes have a thorough political debate. In the State budget, the Government has proposed — and the majority seems to join it — to grant 987 million. kr for the purchase of passenger transport services from the NSB. It is a continuation of the amount granted this year because the agreement between the Ministry and the NSB has not yet been concluded. So one has set up the same amount as this year. So we want to get back to the details and the design of it. The right, on the other hand, in its proposal, does not propose to grant 987 million. NOK – and it might have been possible to turn down a little neighbor to get it a believer – but NOK 519 600 000, a cut of NOK 467 400000, i.e. a cut of almost 50 pst. The right has been and is concerned with long-termity in the transport industry, and my first question to Nilsen is: Where has the right got the number 519 600 000 kroner? Why exactly that number? And further, what kind of train offer does the committee leader see that we would get from 1 January if his right budget proposal had gone through here today? It's okay to be dissatisfied with what the NSB has provided by passenger transport services, but the fact – let's say – is the inconsequential way of providing a budget for a long time since I've seen it. Nilsen said we should give a clear signal. What kind of train offer would it have been if Nilsen’s proposal had gone through from 1 January?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e197	The question in the line was by no means unexpected, because it is correct, as I said in my post, that we have cut some of the NSB's appropriations. At the same time, it is an important point that, in its time, we made a handle when it came to the NSB and the Railway Agency. We separated the two companies, and we established the railway oversight. In addition, there was a big discussion in this room about whether the NSB should remain a management company or become a special law company. Right, wanted the NSB to be an AS. The reason why the NSB would become a special law company was among other things: to ensure that this house did not interfere with all the details related to the NSB. I would like to repeat to the representative Myrli: it is hardly any representative who, to those degrees, has mixed up in all the details of the NSB, as the representative Myrli. The last thing we saw was that this house was also going to determine the price rise for NSB. Whether it applies to the purchase of services or to all NSB routes – rail routes and bus routes – I do not know that. But it's quite obvious that if you continue in this way, it won't be possible to get this company to operate in a good and efficient way. You have to give this company the opportunity, within the framework we have set up, to take care of themselves and make sure that they operate effectively, so that they can get the services provided. That's what I tried to say; that the discussion we're willing to take. I regret that the Workers' Party says that they will come back and discuss the framework conditions for the NSB in connection with the national transport plan. What does that mean? Does this mean that you intend to go back to the management company? My point is that the Right should help the NSB with the appropriations that are going to, but we want a total review of this system we have today, where we don't know what the money is going to. Nor have we negotiated a negotiated agreement when the budget is to be adopted, and it is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e208	The representative and committee leader Oddvard Nilsen gave a reasonably depressing picture of Norwegian transport policy in the last four years. I think there is reason to remind Right that in the case of two of these traffic budgets, the Right has been one of the conciliators, although they may not accept that there was no particular demand for increased means of transport then. From the center, we agree with the Right in terms of their desire to get a cheaper youth card, but when we see at the same time that the Right Cutter 467 million. kr in the allocation of the very important collective means of transport as NSB is, I think it has little credibility. So that's how the Right has $1 billion more for road investments, and the Right is at the same time so honest that they say in their general note that this is largely financed by reducing the appropriations for municipal district measures. And then it's the agricultural support cut by 1.5 billion, direct regional and industrial support cut by 1.2 billion, the NSB cut by 1.2 billion, I've mentioned, the press support, which goes beyond the district newspapers, cut by 234 million, and the most amazing thing here is that the Right Cuts the shipping fee by 100 million. kr, which is special for District-Norway. I would like to ask the representative, Oddvard Nilsen, whether he is not reasonably happy that the budgetary agreement has freed the Right from these cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e215	I am very pleased that the representative Sahl mentions the Youth Card as positively as he does. It has undoubtedly been a huge success. For example, do you go? to Rogaland, the number of card users in 1996 — if I do not remember correctly — was about. 65000, today there are 120000 users. It's a huge success in those places where it's been implemented. And if it's supposed to be so that the center has come to the thought that they'll support this when we move on, there's nothing that pleases me more than that. I think, as I also said in my introduction, that we need to use a wide range of levers to improve public transport in this country, and this I think is one of them – perhaps one of the most important – to train young people to travel collectively, that they learn the route systems and thus see that the use of collective means of transport can be a way to travel efficiently and well. So to the Right Transport Budget. Yeah, that's right. We have never hidden the fact that we have cut some of the so-called selective subsidies to provide more money for transport. Why do we do that? Well, it's possible that Sahl and I have different reference backgrounds, but I've traveled quite a lot in this country, and everywhere I get the same question: please, can you give us better opportunities to come up with our goods and services in a good and decent way, whether it be road, sea or what it might be? Almost no one is asking me about selective support. This is something that politicians do, simply because they want to distribute some money both here and there at their own discretion. The truth is, give this country a good infrastructure, so this country is doing just fine! There are many creative people in Norway who can solve these problems without the need for support and help from politicians to find new industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e222	I'm afraid that if you cut the commercial support and use everything on the roads, you'll get better weights for the relocations. But that is not the only objective. Otherwise, the representative of Nilsen praised the Workers' Party for having come to terms with the framework of what has to do with the coast: ports and fairways. What's amazing is that after two budgetary conciliations between the centre and the right, the goal achievement was 40 pst. in the middle of the period. So at least the Right has not contributed to that framework being fulfilled. But I want to go back to the NSB. First of all, I can say that the representative Nilsen and I can work together on youth cards and input-driven funding on the collective side, and hope that we can get a majority for some of this. But he's making $467 million. kr on the purchase of services from the NSB, and when the representative Myrli asks him questions about it, the representative Nilsen will not answer. If the reason is that you're not done with the negotiations, he should put zero in. Where did he get the number 467 million? Is it just a joke, a fantasy number? Probably. Now there has been a debate about this with the price increase – 6.3 pst. There was a certain reaction to that. Then the representative tells Nilsen that we're not going to control the details. No, here's the thing about mastering, saying that we want it and that price increase, and then the state gets involved in paying for what it costs. But that's what I'm asking: if we cut by 467 million. NOK, it could have gone beyond the offer, but it could be taken back on the price. Have the representative Nilsen thought about the price increase customers had received if he cut the purchase of services by 467 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Would it be about – let's say – 30 pst. price increase? I would count it as reasonably probable. Or does Nilsen have a better calculation? I assume that if he takes his number seriously, he's thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e233	I've tried in several lines to answer this with the NSB. I don't initially have much more to add. With regard to the sum that has emerged, we have looked at it – back and forth – and found out that the amount listed there is the amount we thought it was right to put forward, and that is precisely why what happened. We could have set that to zero. That's right. We also expected that it would be half a year before we got this agreement in place, so that there might be a need for some money related to that part. That's actually the explanation. But the main point isn't that. The main point is that this house now needs to realize that if we are to get the railway in this country – NSB – to work, we need to provide this company with framework conditions and opportunities for action that a normal company gets. That's why we made this cut and made it a special law company. That was what the majority argued that the company needed greater space for action, greater freedom and greater ability to act in the market in a sensible way. And then the majority does the exact opposite! The majority now determine both output and price. What the government of the NSB is going to do, yes, it has to know – excuse the expression, President – the gods. If this house is to be completely down in the details of how to behave, it is much better to turn this company into – back to – a management company again and say that it should be, so that everyone in this house who wants to be the manager can get to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e242	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e246	The 2001 budget is the last of the four-year road, rail, aviation and coastal plans for the period 1998-2001. These plans were dealt with by Stortinget in the spring of 1997 and had a planning horizon of ten years. Now it's time to figure out the status and see how it's been these first four years. When I think back on the treatment of the plans in 1997, there are many thoughts that apply. I will pay close attention to this: As a long-standing member of the Committee on Transport, it is of course easy for me to want more money for Transport Norway. But – and that may be because I have been involved in so many budgetary processes in this house – I think it is much more important to present plans at a level that actually makes it possible to implement them than to participate in a competition for who can think of the highest number. That is perhaps also the recognition of the vast majority of the parties in this House, when we have, over the last few years, laid the foundations of the 1997 Jagland Government framework for the annual budget proposals. In several areas, the transport budget for next year is a tight budget. However, I am pleased that we have found room for an increase in operating and maintenance, among other things. on the road side. It means more asphalt, which provides better road surface, and which has an impact on the safety of the driving lists. We keep up the pace of the road projects that are under way, so we avoid cost increases like those we've had in some of the years of this period. The budget does not allow for many new projects, but I would like to say that we are not completely blind. After all, we're going to spend 18.5 billion on the transport sector next year. In the case of the road sector, the total implementation of the plans after the budget conciliation is 98,1 pst. For the railway sector we achieve a filling of 93.5 pst, and for ports, lighthouses and brands we have a filling of 100 pst. As far as aviation is concerned, I would like to express some concern about the airline's economy and the ability to invest in our airports. Now it's important that we go forward, for example. provide for a yield requirement and a dividend policy that gives the Aviation Agency more predictability than is currently the case. We must not forget that the Stortinget has proposed that Norwegian aviation should be self-financing, except for the purchase of services on domestic flights. I am pleased that we have reached a budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. In some of our areas, we have had important additions. In this context, I would first of all like to mention the increase of 190 million. SEK for public transport, including 50 million. kr for return to the express buses. That the ferry operation has got a real boost of 80 million. kr, is also important for Coast Norway. After many years in the Committee, the temptation may be present to bring forward old quotations and positions that various parties have had over the years, but I feel that using the hopefully appropriate knowledge of transport to shape policies for the years ahead is now a far greater challenge. That is why I look forward to the Committee giving its opinion on the new year's national transport plan, where we are going to vote out the transport policy for the next ten years. We have major challenges to address in terms of security. We need to upgrade existing infrastructure, and we need to make it possible for it to meet the needs of users far into the future. It is then important that we jointly create the widest possible majority for the financial framework and the main devices of the plan. Rather, there is disagreement in the areas where the political divisions are a necessity. This deserves Transport Norway. If we are to succeed in regional and industrial policy, a good and satisfactory infrastructure is an absolute necessity. That is why I call on the Government to take this seriously when the long-term programme is presented in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e268	The representative Red Road from the Workers' Party talked about having a good infrastructure. But the Workers' Party's major field of activity in this budget, as in previous budgets, is and will be the railway. And the Workers' Party now, as in the past, has a belief that government conduct is the right thing to do. They even want to regulate in detail, so that we also have to determine the price increase of the NSB. At the same time, the Worker's Party is stabbing this time the express buses in the back. In the past, it was the turbuses. The express buses and coaches do not receive five ears of subsidies. It is clear that in the Workers' Party, the envelopment is: Live the state NSB! It is tempting to ask the representative Red Road from the Workers' Party: How far down will you go? How badly can anything be operated before you realize that government conduct and operation is a faulty grip? The working party will not allow express buses, they will not have competition on the rail track in terms of passenger traffic, nor will they have tenders. Does the Labour Party not soon realize that this only affects users and taxpayers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e277	I find it sad that a party as large as the Progress Party is not willing to be involved and take more responsibility for social development than they are. The slogans are: more competition, more privatisation! We see it in the road sector, where they want to reduce government output. We see what happens on the private contractor's side, with large mergers and companies moving out of the country. What we can actually experience is that we go from what the Progress Party calls a public monopoly to a private monopoly. And one thing I know, and that's that a private monopoly is at least nothing like a public monopoly. So it was claimed that the NSB is being protected. NSB will not be protected. We're making demands on the NSB. NSB meets competition. To say that the NSB does not compete is a customs duty. NSB meets competition every day, if not directly on the track, then in relation to other collective funds. We do not pierce the express buses in the back, as the representative Nistad claims. For 2000, 11 new permits were granted to express buses, and I believe the number of those who have been refused is approximately. five. In the budget agreement, we also include diesel tax compensation for the express buses. This is not least because we see that the express buses provide a significant service, not least in the districts, in terms of public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e286	It is not often one boasts of his co-representatives in this house, but in the case of the representative Ola Røtvej, it is my sincere opinion that he wants the best for Norwegian transport. Of course, we may disagree with many and many things, but no one will take away from him. That's why I'm very disappointed in him this time. We have had a problem, yes, we have had several problems in Norwegian transport, but one of the problems I have experienced as most frustrating is to have to pick up tunnels and stop road projects around this country, projects that are half-complete and laugh at me. I think it creates political contempt over time. I have done everything I have been able to do in order not to do the same again, namely to grant small amounts to projects without there being any possibility of completing them. They are not fully funded at all, with the result that you start, and then you have to stop again. This time we see that in the agreement between the center and the Workers' Party, it depends on such projects. It's almost like every representative who's been on the deal has got their own little know-how of 15, 20, 25 or 30 million. kr, or whatever it might be. My simple question to the representative Ola Røtvej is: Does he agree with this within himself, or does he think that the list presented by the Right is much better and contributes to a much more efficient use of resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e300	I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for his good words. I will immediately admit that the Right has provided a good list of new road projects. If I had had equivalent funds that the Right has put in, I would probably have spent a lot of time on the projects that the Right has put in. But I also want to say that a good part of the projects that the Right has put in, which are new projects – i.e. start-up appropriations for new projects. Otherwise, I agree with the chairman of the committee that it is important that we now complete the projects that have been started. One of the steps taken in the 2001 budget is to try to complete the projects under way and not start new ones. The few new projects to be launched in 2001 are important projects located in District Norway, which have a major impact on our pathways. When considering the national transport plan 2002-2011, I believe that the Committee should endeavour to build up existing infrastructure. This applies to both road and track. So rather, new big projects wait until we get a real standard on the infrastructure that we have. Otherwise, we're getting closer to Christmas now, and I've recorded, as in many other budget debates, that there are many Christmas cards sent from this pulpit in different forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e313	I am a little tempted to first a little clarifying comment. When purchasing services on the regional grid, the country determines frequency, seat capacity, price adjustments, etc. When you make a fast route agreement, there are very clear things about routes, points of arrival, how many ships can be taken out of service, how many days, etc. So it's perfectly normal that when the government buys services, you put a lot of premise on that purchase. You can also do that in relation to the NSB. The representative Røtweg said that he could be tempted to go on old quotes. I won't. I will take a completely new quote from the setting, where it is stated in the general comments of the Workers' Party: ‘These members are committed to the use of railway investments in order to increase safety, punctuality, capacity and travel time.’; Very ambitious: safety, punctuality, capacity and reduced travel time. What surprises me is that the Workers' Party from 2000 to 2001 cuts in investments on the railways by 150 million. kr, and that the target achievement in the period is 92 pst. That plan was not particularly ambitious, and this happened after everyone agreed that something special had to be done with the railway on the safety side after the Asta accident. The railway company has said that they can use 400 million. next year on security measures. How is it possible once you've cut 150 million? kr from this year to next year in a tight budget? Is it then possible to implement the measures proposed by the Railway Agency? Is it possible to achieve the objectives of the Workers' Party in its general remark to strengthen safety, punctuality, capacity and reduce travel time, or is it just empty rafts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e327	The representative of Myrvoll also knows very well that during these four years with the railway plan – at least in relation to the first two years, i.e. 1998 and 1999 – there was a considerable effort on the railway from the Workers' Party to get up to the level laid down in the railway plan. With regard to the budget submitted for 2001, at least I feel that there are no contradictions with the main objectives that we have set for the railway, namely safety, punctuality and a reduction in travel time. There is a good deal of effort to get rid of level crossings, the representative Myrvoll knows well. It has a major impact on safety, it also has a significant impact on punctuality, and not least on reducing travel time. Overall, I feel that in relation to the railway plan, we have a good budget for 2001. Within the framework that we have at our disposal, and from – as I said in my main post – that we have a tight budget, I feel that it is a fairly good priority in relation to what we put in on the railways, and what we use in the road sector. The concrete safety measures to which the representative Myrvoll refers as regards what the Railway Agency can use in 2001 will have to come back at least in two rounds, in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan and not least in connection with the submission by the Government of the report on the AST accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e338	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e341	Once again we have to note that unfortunately we have got a sad budget for transport, and I am thinking especially of the road sector. As usual — even ten years ago when a new ten-year plan was put in place — the centres were high up, road construction was to be invested. Now the ten years have passed, and so the last epoch is the one that starts today. In the road sector, it's just as sad as it was ten years ago, but high up they were. We just have to note that the Labour Party and the Centre do not propose any investment in road development, even if we have a miserable road network, which should actually have increased by 100 pst. It appears that the Government and the Centre have not realised that the road sector is the dominant transport sector in Norway. Of the total domestic transport, road transport accounted for about 85 pst. by passenger transport and for 50 pst. of the carriage of goods. Almost all of the rest of the freight that went as a boat transport. The railway, which the centre and the Workers' Party have as the large bet area, accounts for only 8 pst. – 8 pst. – so it’s certainly time if you really want to transfer transport from road to track, privatize the NSB, and let others take over. Had road transport been operated in accordance with the same state principles as the NSB, all fish for export had become a form of rake fish instead of fresh fish. The investment rate in the main road network is generally lost this time as well, but some alternative transport services are not proposed. The result will be a clean cut in both road development and maintenance, without any means of solving the problems in Norwegian transport. The Progress Party will strongly point out that road capital has been significantly reduced in recent years, and it is worrying that the follow-up has now reached a total of DKK 8 billion. The ministry itself says they have to increase by 600 million. kr more for maintenance beyond the current level in order not to increase further. The Progress Party has included this increase of 600 million in its alternative budget. kr for maintenance in the road sector. In fact, if the current level of maintenance continues, the delays during the planning period will increase further, as the lack of maintenance results in an accelerated breakdown of the roads. By the end of the planning period that we're in now, the chase will actually rise to inconceivable 9.2 billion kroner, according to draft NTP. To support the expansion, the Progress Party will also be committed to private development and operation – OPS – Public Private Cooperation. However, it is assumed that the charges to the State will be reduced, so that the same route will not be paid more than once. The Directorate of Roads should be responsible for the planning of national road development, but the actual development must be left to private contractors. Road maintenance is open to private tenders. New road projects involving direct or indirect public investment shall be subject to a cost-benefit assessment prior to prioritising projects. The part of progress is also concerned that the ordinary appropriations for road purposes are reduced approximately proportionally by the toll collection. The bomb charges have now risen in an incredible amount of NOK 2.2 billion, and it comes in addition to the fact that we have the world's highest charges for car and car use. It is also worrying that large sums are used for the administration and operation of the bomb companies instead of using them to build an efficient road network. It is worrying that the state now takes in a total of 40 billion kroner on car and car use, and then the budget is at a poor 10 billion kroner. It is for the total operation of roads, for the maintenance of roads and for investment in the road sector. That's approximately equal to that. One-fourth. The small thing that we put aside for new investment projects is essentially the 2 billion kroner that we charge for bombing. The progress point will insert a further 600 million. kr for maintenance of the highways, as I pointed out earlier, and SEK 1.6 billion for investment in the highways. In total, the Progress Party presents a supplement of SEK 2.2 billion in addition to the Government's proposal. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to spend SEK 1.5 billion on the foreign budget to allow foreign entrepreneurs to expand our domestic roads. In most other countries, large companies or associations are responsible for the development of new motorways, which are placed entirely outside the old existing road network, rather than climbing the old one, as we do here in Norway. The Transport Committee has been in many countries and has looked at the fine modern road development that is taking place there. And we have actually visited some Norwegian companies involved in road construction abroad, but not in Norway. No, here both the workers' party and the centre politicians are pulling over the head well and letting the Norwegian companies operate abroad. After the oil age, Norway is totally dependent on putting in place a good infrastructure, and then it's a strange strategy to put everything into public transport. For it is not public transport that will in future transport Norwegian exports, such as fish and furniture, to the continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e371	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e375	From the general comments of the Advance Party, we can find the following quotation: ‘These members consider that owning airports is not a State task. State ownership exposures at civil airports may be liquidated.’;» Today, the Aviation Agency owns the vast majority of airports, and the profit from the profitable is used to finance the deficit of the unprofitable. Thus, the state does not spend much money at airports in Norway. We know that only Gardermoen, Flesland, Værnes and Sola are profitable. The rest is unprofitable. In the case of the liquidation of the country’s ownership at these aerodromes, there are three possibilities: 1st@item: inlistbox These aerodromes shall be closed.2. These aerodromes are subject to significantly higher charges and thus an increase in the price of the ticket.3. The State must purchase services from these airports and will therefore have to substantially increase its expenditure. Which of these solutions prefers the representative Nistad?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e399	I am fully aware that understanding the thoughts and programmes of the Progress Party is difficult for one from the Labour Party. It has to take some years before it sinks in. That's what I was into in my post when it was about the NSB and the state leadership there. We're thinking the same thing in all areas. Why can't the NSB be run by private, just as well as everything else? We have a good example today. We have Torp, who today is not directly subject to the government direction requested by the representative of the Workers' Party. Torp is a good corrective to those airports which are fully operated by the public. If you want one owner of absolutely everything, we will end up with just one airline in Norway. We'll be left with only SAS. All the competitors will end up, because the fees are going to be so high that no one will use planes in this country. If we could have private companies that competed at airports, as Torp operates today, airport charges could be lowered. We believe that the best medicine is that we get competition in this area as well. I see clearly the problem that the Labour Party representative points to, that it is a cross-subsidy, that there are a few airports that make money and that they are transferred to others. But it has to be shown openly on the map who makes money, and who doesn't make money, and then we get to buy those services. So why can't we do it in that area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e408	The progress party has a lot of money for transportation, and it is probably someone who would like to get into that pot. But at the same time, this money has to be collected from somewhere. It is true, then, that the Progress Party has cut so hard in other areas that they stand outside any debate on transport in this Chamber. It must, in my opinion, be a cross of thought for the representative Nistad. It is not useful to have a lot of money if you are not allowed to put this money into operation. At the same time, the Progress Party does not take the time required to prioritise within the framework assigned to us in the Committee on Transport. If the Progress Party had taken the time to do so, we could also have a real debate on priorities within the framework we have, after all, been given. So a little bit to the last line change and the airports. After all, the Progress Party has competition and privatisation as very important areas in its programme. As a good example, especially in Norway, which is not a country of any size, aviation has led to the bankruptcy of one airline and two airlines are currently having a reasonably broken back, precisely because of competitive outsourcing and privatisation. I would then like to ask the representative, Mr Nistad: when the Progress Party wants to privatise regional airports, with the consequences it has, why would they provide State aid of 10 million? kr to a private airport such as Torp, which is running with profits today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e422	The reason why the Progress Party will not give priority to this budget is quite obvious. The budget is so poor that we do not find it necessary to prioritise within it. We want to bet on the road sector. I thought the representative of the Christian People's Party had brought that. We will even add almost 2 miles extra to the budget for transport. It's one and only because we see that it's necessary to expand the road network in this country. It's as necessary northwards, where the representative Sahl comes from, as it is down here. I now honestly believed that the representative Sahl was pleased that we had agreed to grant to Lofast! Should we have prioritised within the narrow framework we had, it is not certain that we had found money for exactly his project. Then he says we have a lot of money. Yes, we have a lot of money. We say frankly that we want to spend some of the oil money. They're a gift to the Norwegian people, and why should we just put this money into foreign banks and leave them there? We believe that instead of putting the money there and getting some returns, which might be good for a few years and worse other years, we think it's a better investment to spend some of these oil money on the road sector. It must be good also for the representative of the Christian People's Party to get proper highways, so that all our exports can get out of the country in the fastest and cheapest way. So the representative also had some questions about airports, and the reason some companies have gone bankrupt. Yes, why have they gone bankrupt? The company Color Air, to which the representative referred, went bankrupt precisely because the fees in Norway were too high. And now we have another company, Braathens, which is also going bankrupt. And then what are we left with? Well, we're left with one state company!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e433	It is probably true that the Progress Party has a lot of money in the transport sector – this time. Now it's actually real money they've invested. In the last three years, they have often only redispatched within the framework that has been, but they have appeared as if you had a lot of money on your way, for example. But leave it alone! But it is not good to be wise on how much money the Progress Party has basically intended to spend on transportation. They have this budget, but they have also made considerable contributions to the international accounts. They want to operate un-help in Sweden, I understand, because they have said that motorways can be built in Sweden if Sweden lacks money. It's just a curious thing. It's not very important, but it's a little funny. You have to be allowed to say that. What I really want to ask the Progress Party is public transport. What's the difference between the Progress Party and the Right many times is like the difference between cutting off your head and shaving. I think that's where the divorce lies. And when you don't even see that we have to do something about public transport in Norway to solve the common environmental problems and the problems of accessibility we have, I'm a little surprised. In fact, I don't think that the Progress Party in the heart means it either, but it can be read in such a way. It can be read as if you are not interested in public transport at all. Of course, we agree that in the case of exports and transport of goods by road, etc., the road is the most important – and rail and boat or whatever it may be. But we also have a urban problem related to futureity – morning and evening and otherwise – that it is important to solve. Despite the negative attitude of the Advance Party towards public transport, I believe that they do not believe that they intend not to use five flat ears on such an important transport system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e442	It's amazing what the representative from the Right here says, that we don't want to support public transport at all, and ask what the Progress Party will do with it. At the same time, we are witnessing that the Right in the budget that they are presenting today has actually cut in the funds of the NSB by half a billion dollars. And then they owe it to the Advance Party. We've only cut 200 million. kr we, that's what we've done. At the same time, we have said that we want to open up express buses, we will release them. Then I think we would get a good grid in this country. Of course, you had to get into the little part about Gothenburg, and it's quite humorous. It may not have been found in the budget presented here today, but it is in our foreign budget, from the Financial Committee. We have said that Norwegian entrepreneurs are going to build and operate, and they themselves say that they can deposit an extra NOK 2.5 billion here. It has been included in the budget of the Progress Party. But that's not enough. In addition, we want to spend 1.5 billion of the oil money we have on the book. Then we can get foreign companies, we can get finders to go into North Norway and build roads there, we can get Swedes to build highways through Eastfold, and we can get Germans to build E18 from Kristiansand to Oslo. Then we have said that we must have a new Swinesundbru. I'm sure the representative of Nilsen has brought it. If the Swedes can't afford it, or won't bet on it, plus the little piece that's left from Svinesund down to Rabbalshede, which is a piece north of Gothenburg, then we've said OK, then we'll just get the'spite in' the brown and the little bit. That's what we've been saying. Our goal is to have a continuous highway and at least to go from Oslo to the continent. We also want it northwards, E6 up to Otta. I thought the representative of Nilsen was interested in building motorways, but he is probably more interested in giving away youth cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e453	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e456	First to the Progress Party, which in fact is not at all included in this budget, because they do not stay within the framework, so we all have to if we are to have any opportunity to do anything. And then I have to say that I think the financing of E6 for Sweden is a strange thing, although it is the Progress Party that proposes it. The budget agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party will strengthen the transport sector by more than 300 million. kr. The budget for Framework 13 is 286.8 million. kr on the Government's proposals. In addition, the VAT zero rate is continued for ferry purposes, so that the transport sector is actually strengthened by more than 300 million. kr. In fact, the budget agreement increased by two to three times the increase that others have achieved in previous budgetary settlements during that period. The enhanced framework for transport has allowed for increased appropriations for a number of important purposes. Safety and security of traffic are a high priority in the Christian People's Party, and we therefore believe it is positive that the Government proposes an increase in item 23, traffic supervision, operation and maintenance, that there should continue to be a strong commitment within the framework to road and vehicle-oriented road safety measures, and that within heading 30, the use of 220 million is proposed. to specific road safety measures. Racial protection is a priority area. That is why we are satisfied that we have been given the Workers' Party to restore the entry for racial protection. The aim of the post is that we can make visible and strengthen the efforts for racial protection to a greater extent than is otherwise possible. A total of 145 million is granted. kr above this item. The centre batches have priority to spend $40 million. kr extra for this purpose. There is room for repair of Row 5 Skei-Lunde in Sogn and Fjordane. And then we're going to take 20 million. kr for racial protection measures in More and Romesdal. It will be up to the county council in More and Romesdal to distribute the funds, but the assumption is that racial protection efforts will be increased by 20 million. kr. We've put in $10 million. kr more to the Rescue Company. This means that the rescue company will receive a budget in 2001 that is slightly above this year’s allocation, instead of a rather dramatic cut, to which it was added by the Government. Through the budget agreement, we've got 75 million. kr for increased road investment, and as I also hope the Progress Party notes, it is actually an increase. Of these, it's set at $25 million. kr to start of Lofast. It's given us room to set of $25 million. SEK to Rv 33 Tonsåsen in Uppland, SEK 15 million. kr to brown for Tautra and 10 mill. kr to Row 3 Schroedden – Rena in Hedmark. In the 2001 budget, we have finally made it possible to set aside 15 million. kr to replace existing molo to Tautra with a new bridge to ensure the biodiversity of the bird reserve there. Today's filling provides a good enough road solution, but it prevents flow. In addition, the filling results in predators that were not previously found in Tautra coming through this filling. With a new bridge we will get better flow and one can put in physical obstacles that prevent predators from coming out to the island, thus ensuring the hedge possibilities for bird life. The majority also ask the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan for the full financing of the project in a split layer with the same parties involved. In the proposition, the government has proposed that Rv 7 over Hardangervidda be kept open this winter to gain knowledge of the new driving pattern after the opening of the Lærdal Tunnel. During the Committee's examination, safety issues have been identified by keeping the section open for winter. It has been found that there have been serious incidents in the 1990s, among others. in 1997, with car columns exposed to safety risks. The Christian People's Party has agreed that both Rv 7 over Hardangervidda and Rv 50 Aurland–Hol are kept open this winter. We stress that this applies to winter 2000–2001 and that we will assess the future situation in a year. Of course, we also assume that the road is kept open only to the extent that it is safe. The majority assume that a thorough documentation of safety and traffic conditions is provided before any proposal for further winter opening of this route is promoted. In addition, the Christian People's Party would stress that the Ministry of Transport of the Proposition is asking the Directorate of Road to extend its cooperation with the Directorate of Nature Management with a view to an extended documentation of the consequences of continued winter operations of Rv 7 over Hardangervidda for the wild. Norway has a special international responsibility for maintaining the Norwegian wild train, which is the last of the European mountain train. Through the budget agreement, we have also secured 5 million. to measures for rational and environmentally friendly transport. This gives us, for example: the possibility to secure a final allocation for the biogas project in Fredrikstad and it shall provide space to support measures for the use of hydrogen as fuel. The biggest change in the budget compared to the Government's proposal is increased support for public transport. We are providing support for the budget for transport, which is in addition to the transfers to the counties that are charged to the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs. The aim of this appropriation is to increase the choice of collective means of transport over private cars. The funds are distributed by $95 million. kr in the most densely populated areas of the country, while it is set at 45 million. kr eligible for action in other parts of the country. Public transport is an important environmental and road safety measure, and the Christian People's Party is a happy centre through the conciliation for this initiative. The Committee — including the Right, of course — is also committed to making more young people travel collectively and to establishing environmentally friendly travel modes. The majority ask the Government to come back in revision with a proposal for a device. We will probably also return to this matter in the national transport plan. The situation in the NSB is very worrying. Even the core of hacking defenders of NSB quacks in their trust. Still negative output from different leaders in the NSB, as we have seen in the fall, does not strengthen the belief that the customer is in the center. The Christian People's Party believes that the train offer from this year should continue in 2001, and is pleased that there is a majority in agreement with this. The assumption is, of course, that the NSB is adequately equipped with drivers and that safety is ensured. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority assumes that the increase in fares does not exceed the average price increase. But if this cannot be done within the proposed framework, the majority assumes that the Government will return to the Stortinget. We are aware that the negotiations between the Ministry and NSB BA on the purchase of transport services for 2001 are still ongoing and that the new management of NSB BA is in the final phase of the review of group plans and long-term budgets. Feedback to the Stortinget on the whole situation in the NSB is essential before the finalisation of the national transport plan. Follow-up to the Asta accident is also included. The Research Commission has submitted its report and the Committee will come back with a broader review of the report and its recommendations at a later stage. We will have a new debate on the role of rail in the transport sector in the context of the national transport plan, and will have the situation in the NSB also as a matter of urgency when the NSB’s Landfill Communication comes to spring. Therefore, decisions on the national transport plan become important. However, we cannot wait until the national transport plan has been processed or the NSB message has been provided. It is absolutely necessary that immediate action be taken; that responsibility lies primarily with the management of the company and the board of directors, and with the Council of State. There must be a new and solid course. The NSB must be put on the rails again and have confidence back at the customers. And the Christian People's Party is willing to consider any proposals that might bring this about. The budget and the setting up of the Committee have many references to the national transport plan, to be adopted in one and a half months' time. In addition to priorities between and within the various transport sectors, it is addressed in principle and leads. It's going to be an exciting start to the spring session. Here, too, Christian People's Party will be in and out of leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e505	For the Christian People's Party, the great flagship is the continuous zero vision and road safety. Everything has to be transferred to public transport, especially to the railways, and all problems have been solved. Speed limits shall be reduced, the per million shall be reduced, the speed limits shall be increased, the number of photoboxes shall be increased – all that is acidic for a normal driver, the Christian People's Party shall be in favour, and the number of killed and injured shall be reduced. Well, that's good, that's good. We agree with that objective, but the instruments may be largely disagreeable. The achievement of the target in terms of road safety in the last long term is definitely at the bottom, it is at 50 p.p., and it is the worst achievement of all, when we look at the goals here. Is it not then a cross of thought also for the Christian People's Party that they may be on the wrong track in achieving the goals that they have set themselves. The Progress Party has said every year that we should bet on good roads, with a barrier in the middle to separate the opposite traffic, and we want to separate soft and hard road users. We've also said that it's on the good roads, and it also shows all the statistics, one has the fewest accidents. The safest road is actually from Oslo to the Gardermoen, and it's a four- and six-field highway. What, then, does the Christian People's Party have to say that in the last decade, the achievement of its goals shows such desirable numbers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e513	I am pleased that the Progress Party is also concerned with road safety, although I have to say that the expression ‘well and good’ in the context of the number of deaths, seemed to be something special. We are, I think, all really seriously concerned with reducing the large number of accidents on our roads. And how we want to do that -- the zero vision. Speed kills, we know, alcohol in traffic kills, so we're actually busy with both of these things. We are willing in the Christian People's Party to look at all the measures that can be involved and reduce the number of fatalities and hard injuries in traffic. And when we say we're in favour of the zero vision, which the Progress Party, too, has joined with the rest of the committee in a note, it's because the zero vision is actually going to lead us on what priorities we do both in this budget and not least in the national transport plan. It is important to repair roads, and it is important on some routes to have a distinction between the directions of travel. Of course we'll say yes to that. We also say yes that it can be a possible positive thing to reduce the speed of some particularly vulnerable sections where there are a high number of accidents. I hope that the measures we can gradually agree on and get a majority in favour of in the context of the national transport plan, together, will really lead to the reality of the vision that the entire committee and of course also the Christian People's Party want to be guiding, that is, the zero vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e522	The NSB does not have the power to provide the passenger services by train for which they are paid by the State. Route offers are set, regularity is weakened, and service levels in the NSB are perceived to be worse. A short time ago, the company announced a higher price and reduced offer next year. TØI, in a report commissioned by the Ministry of Transport, concluded that Norway is among the countries most advanced in Europe in preparing the railways for competition. In the evening post on 10 December this year, the representative Kofoed-Larsen says: ‘If the NSB does not tighten up, we need to look at the competition. It's not a goal in itself to have an NSB. Passengers are now in a desperate situation and we need to do some basic grip...» Is it, then, that the Christian People's Party is now willing to launch tenders and competition precisely to improve the offer of travellers with the NSB, and at the same time to obtain better evidence of the actual costs of transporting rails?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e536	NSB is in big trouble. We all agree on that. We have all received a lot of feedback on what the representative Gerpe Hansen from the Right now mentioned here, problems with service, problems with regularity, all of these problems that we know well after all. And that's a big dilemma for all of us who think that the railway is a very good offer, environmentally friendly and traffic-proof. That's why we've also said – and I said it in my speech earlier – that it's important that the NSB's management, the board of directors and the state council now get on the track and do some very basic work. And as it was referred to from a quote in the Evening Post, expressed by the undersigned, the Christian People's Party is willing to look at and evaluate all the good suggestions that can come, to really get the railroad on the rails again and get the customer in the center. Some countries in Europe have actually tried this with privatisation and tenders, which the representative Mr. Gjerpe Hansen was concerned about. It has been relatively unsuccessful. We can go to a country that's not so far away, England, and see how the experience is there, and where it's actually gone to those degrees beyond road safety. I expect that the right is not concerned about getting such a development of road safety on the railway as it has been there. But together I think we'll have to look at other basic steps that come – possibly – through proposals from the board of directors of the NSB, so that our train offer can really be a good train offer, a good collective offer, where the customer is at the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e545	I think the total absence of railway policy in this room, including at the centre, is a much bigger problem for Norwegian railway policy than the situation in the NSB. But I'd better go for a little walk around the country. I'm going to start at Tautra, and I can distribute a rose to the center to get the bridge in place. But from Tautra I take a trip to Hardangervidda. I listened to the representative Kofoed-Larsen. She gave two good reasons to stop winter brewing: the safety and the environmental. I assume that she is as concerned with the wild reindeer tribe at Hardangervidda as with the birdlife at Tautra, and you know that the winter reindeer Rv 7 is a barrier in terms of the tract routes for reindeer. What's interesting was that the representative Kofoed-Larsen didn't give one reason why you should have a winter break. It's actually been four east-west connections now after the route has been opened. There's pretty little traffic, we have numbers of that from several of these connections. In other words, the representative gave two reasons to stop the winter break. In addition, it could be a third: you actually save money. And that might be okay. But she didn't give one reason for continuing the brewing. From Hardangervidda, I'm taking a trip to Melhus. The representative Kofoed-Larsen is on the first allocation to an E6 through Melhus, which concerns the sheltered Gaulavas stretch and breaks with the guidelines set by the Stortinget for areas with protected watercourses, which now take the best food grain soil in the South Trondelag, which rages industrial buildings and residential buildings, and which does not solve the transport problem. Where is the overall environmental policy of the Christian People's Party? Is it just an environmental fig leaf on Tautra, or do you have anything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e558	Whole environmental policy – I also hope the representative Inge Myrvoll has come to realize that the Christian People's Party/Centre has actually invested 190 million in this budget. kr extra for collective investment, which is also a very important part of the environmental effort. It is good that he was positive with Tautra. I am pleased that we agree that we will get that problem out of the world, and expect the project to be completed next year. That's the Hardanger range. I said that the Christian People's Party is going for the Winter Open Row 7 this year, i.e. the winter 2000-2001. The same applies to Rv 50 Hol-Aurland, to be able to look at the driving pattern after the Lærdal Tunnel has been opened. So I said a lot about safety, about investigation on the safety side of Hardangervida, about traffic censuses and not least environmental issues related to the wild rain trunk. These are areas that are going to count very heavily for the Christian People's Party when, in the next round, first at the national transport plan and then at next year's budgetary procedure, we are going to take a position on whether Rv 7 is going to be open all winter time. It is so strong that I expect the representative of Myrvoll to understand that there is a lot to do. As far as Melhus is concerned, I am very pleased that we may finally be able to solve project E6 Melhus, and I think that both the people in the area there and the others should be grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e571	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e574	For the second year in a row, there is in the autumn a budgetary cooperation between the Labour Party and the Centre Party. Last year's budget with the changes made to the agreement was supported by the Labour Party without any alternative budget being provided by the Labour Party. This year there is a similar situation, the difference is that now the Labour Party is a government party. The centre or centre has not provided an alternative budget in the transport setting. When a party does not provide its alternative budget, there is a risk of brilliance with its primary positions, but at the same time it is both tidy and responsible to stand behind the budget with the changes negotiated. To take a look at the context and pull back threads, I looked through the last year's debate on transport. What's striking when you read the article to the impending spokesperson for the Labour Party, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, is that it's not so easy to understand that it's the centre party's budgetary cooperation partners that talk. I don't intend to follow up on the post that the Workers' Party's social policy spokesperson made up last year. In a comparison between four parties, there will necessarily be areas with which not all are equally satisfied. The centre party believes that in 2001 we could use more means of transportation. As I have mentioned in debates this year, and also in previous years, there are many unsolved tasks in the transport sector. Many of the facilities in operation are not being operated effectively, and maintenance in all areas is increasing every year. In addition, this year we have the situation that there is no capacity available in the civil engineering sector. Only recently has there been a signal from many utilities in the construction sector that new jobs are missing, and leave and cancellations have already been a reality for many, and will become too many. The availability of capacity in the civil engineering sector should be useful in resolving important transport projects. Although, as I said, I should like to see more opportunities for the transport sector, I am, after all, happy that the budgetary agreement resulted in an increase in this area. Eighty million. SEK until the ferries have, among other things, provided room for freeze ticket prices for 2001 and improve discount schemes. The cost of ferries is an additional cost, especially for businesses and landowners who often use the ferries. The Rikswegferen should be a natural part of the road that shouldn't cost more to pass than it would cost to run the corresponding route. The ferries themselves are an obstacle to efficiency and flexibility. The journeys go to fixed times, and the journey must be completed after this. There will be an extra cost in both time and money. In several cases, the extra costs of business and real estate have our contributing factors in selecting locations and also for people's choice of housing area. For the Central Party, cheaper ferries have been an important thing for many years. In the long term, free national road ferries must be a goal. Although more and more ferry routes are being cut off by bridges or tunnels, ferries will still be an important feature of the country's trade. The average age of the ferries is high, and there is so much need for renewal. It is important to develop the ferries in such a way as to improve overtime, environmental gains, fuel consumption and efficiency. The Committee is therefore in favour of the continuation of the new concept of fast journeys, known as FerryCat. This type of ferry should be tested on own ferries, e.g., as mentioned by the Committee, Tau – Stavanger. I assume, of course, that this type of ferry meets the safety requirements of the national road users. The budget agreement also gave greater promises for collective action. If the collective effort is to produce results, an attractive collective offering must be built up. We have to realize that we cannot build ourselves out of the traffic pressure in people's areas just by building roads with more and more lanes. Public transport must capture a greater proportion of the traffic volume. Private cars are increasing, and the pressure on the road network is increasing. I am therefore pleased that we have been able to add funds to the large urban areas in order to increase collective provision. We have said in the setting that the device should be such that the funds are used so that they stimulate more use that the collective supply. In the districts the express buses are in many places the backbone of the collective supply. Many local, small squares are connected to the express buses. I am therefore glad that the majority received another 50 million. kr in the item for compensation for the express buses. This is of great value to collective provision even outside the populace. For coastal areas, many places the boat is an important collective means. The express boats are a good alternative to the private car. But for high-speed express boats to be a safe alternative, good marking of the lease is an excuse. This is one of the things. A powerful reminder of the slippery accident. Safe navigation at sea both for passenger boats and cargo boats not only stated that the quick start boat is well marked. It's decisive that the guy and the brand along the whole coast are in good condition. Other important measures in maritime safety are the Lostenesta and the traffic centres. The town of the ship's tunnel is a concrete measure that could provide smaller vessels with a safer passage over one of the toughest depths on the coast. For small boats in bad weather there is often a great risk of crossing the City Sea. Many have long hoped and waited for the tunnel through the City State to be realized. When there is now a distribution work to assess cost and technical issues, I think it is natural to wait for this project to be completed before the final point of view is taken. Despite many measures to ensure maritime traffic, it is not possible to exclude accidents. The job that the Rescue Company does when the accident is over is invaluable. Both fishing boats, recreational boats and cargo boats have been helped by the Rescue Company over the years. I am therefore pleased that the rescue company has received 10 million. kr in the case of the budgetary conciliation. In the transport debate this year, it is not advisable to mention the iron track. Many events over the past year have made it more and more clear that there are many questions that can be asked when it comes to the railways in the country. Occurrence and accident, non-scheduled trains, lack of train drivers and holiday settlement that was pure chaos, is one of the features of the media image of railway operations last year. It may not be surprising that this has seen the iron track in a strange light. In the future, it will be an important job to get those who use the train, and everyone else, to get the train threatened as a safe and safe means of getting it back. Both the NSB BA and the Railway Agency have to do a thorough job of correcting things that are not working. Users require that the train is on-board, that the service is good and not least that it should be safe to travel by train. Security must be the primary focus. Security cannot and should not be wasted. It cannot be accepted that important security measures will not be taken and implemented within a reasonable time. The operating budget of the Railway Agency for 2001 will be roughly the same as this year. The centre part of the game is a plural number, which means that the stakes on maintenance must be strengthened. It is therefore necessary to accept the need to reduce the investment budget compared to this year. A clear expectation is that the Railway Agency within the allocated budget will give priority to important security measures first on the implementation list.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e612	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e615	The representative of Ringstad is concerned with the safety of seafarers. It is an important task to deal with the safety that many depend on, and many accidents also show that it is necessary. But the budget on which the Central Party is involved unfortunately does not bear the mark of it. As the representative, Mr Ringstad, pointed out, the state budget is marked by the fact that the road sector has not been allocated the resources needed by the road sector for the necessary upgrading. We also know that the road sector only gets a quarter of what is paid back from car and car use. Nevertheless, more and more roads are being financed by tolls, which go for purposes other than road development. It's amazing that the drivers find it. Does the representative, Mr Ringstad, consider this to be a desirable development? And what kind of district effort is this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e624	The representative Stensaker began to talk about safety at sea, and I perceive that he is completely in agreement with what I said in my post, that it is important to facilitate that it is safe to travel at sea. And it is also, as it has already been mentioned in the debate, a good follow-up to what has been the measure of this four-year period. So in that area, we're probably, as I see it, quite a few. When it relates to the road sector, I said in my post that I would like to know that we had more resources to use, and I also founded it on unsolved tasks, that we have free capacity in the civil engineering sector. But it's just once that when you're going to get to a multiple, it's going to give and take. And it's clear that the Center Party had its budget set up independently and brilliantly with what we could make, in an alternative budget, it would have been different than the one we're agreed on. But we're behind the deal, and as I also said, it's neat to stand behind the deal that's made, without coming up with its options. Many roads in the country are built with tolls. It's okay. That's the way it is, and it's going to be done to get to the goal a little bit faster than what someone else would have done. Many are impatient and think that it is going too late to come to the top of the priority list, and then one goes to the toll scheme. There may be a number of different things about it, but there have been many important projects around the country that have been told the solution that way. The traffickers are with and pay, and I don't see that there's anything to be so very disagreeable about. But it is clear that businesses and building companies that often use such toll projects are getting a pretty high cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e635	Let me ask you a few questions related to the district profile of the Central Party. Jorunn Ringstad and the Central Party are in a majority opinion, where the train tickets are covered, with a clear invitation to the NSB to come back to Stortinget and get more money. It would probably mean that the taxpayers in the rail-poor parts of the country would pay an increasing proportion of the value here, I think. When we get to the express buses, the impression is the same. This first removes the premium on a charging charge with a basic reason, and only reintroduces parts of it with a completely different reason. Why not let it stand uncircumcision to the delight of a bus-dependent state like Sogn and Fjordane? On the youth card and collective side, the youth card is shattered and funds are, alternatively, channelled to a large extent to larger cities. And then to the point of the conciliation; it is given honor to what has been achieved in the budget agreement. However, it must be a burden for the Centre Party to have gone through a four-year period during which neither within nor outside the Government has been able to show a principal budget that is in some way similar to the commitments made by this party in connection with the Norwegian Road and Road Transport Plan of 1997.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e647	Let me first make it clear that I am well pleased that in the budget agreement we have managed to invest a little extra in public transport. And we're on the Transport Committee and we're responsible for the whole country. Then we can't just think about what we're from, like the representative Sverre Hoddevik is starting to think that it could be natural to do. NSB is an important collective factor in parts of the country. We can't get away with that. Then we both have to make demands to the NSB that they do the job they are expected to do, and we have to be able to demand that what they offer to road users should be so that road users find it attractive to use. And it goes on that train has to be precise, that it has to be service, that it has to be a price that can compete with other ways to figure out, just to mention a little bit of it. I would like to see that we could have added even more in compensation for the express buses. But we've gotten 50 million in total. kr, and that's then a useful part in percent of what was already there. I think it's quite free by the representative Sverre Hoddevik when he's inside the youth card, that he can use the term'shadow away'. It does not do the center part, nor does it do the Labour Party. We have asked for a distribution on the Youth Card, and ask that one come back to the faster than Right has suggested for it to be introduced. We have asked for feedback on this matter in the revised national budget, while it is only in 2002 that the right will have fulfilled its wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e658	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e661	So far it seems to be a debate on known paths, or in old tracks. Motorway riders in the Progress Party have open money book for wide roads and as many cars as possible, and will privatize most of it. The right has a little less money, but also a lot to go, and will privatize almost as much. The working party tells them that they are largely following the plans that have been put in place, while the center frames up what they have been given in the conciliation. I've already distributed some praise to the center. I hope they don't let the rose go to their head, for I'll quickly go over to swing the whip. The rose is for Tautra. What was about to establish itself as a permanent environmental policy façade is now becoming a temporary one, and it is a good job. But then it remained with it. Because while the majority of the committee is willing to invest to save the bird reserve at Tautra, there is no willingness to save money for the sake of the last European tribe of mountain purity. We know that the breakage of Rv 7 over Hardangervidda results in barrier effects that prevent the necessary re-establishment of tracts for the wild reindeer strain. It's in the staging proposition from the department. What does the majority do when we have the new tribal road Bergen – Oslo about Lærdal? Well, they're still going to winter break Hardangervidda. There is a clear need for four open-east-west connections, despite the fact that there are strong environmental grounds as well as safety reasons for not wintering Rv 7 over Hardangervidda. The representative Kofoed-Larsen tells you to look at traffic patterns. Does this mean that if someone chooses to run the Hardanger range, no longer are environmental policy considerations taken into account? That must be what you're looking at then. The first allocation to the new E6 through Melhus Centre will come in 2001. It is an alternative outside the Melhus Centre which according to the County ‘save the sheltered Gaulavas strip, reduce the consumption of the county's best grain soil and save the range of dwellings and industrial buildings to be demolished if the E6 is to be built after the recommended trasé’. And as the countyman says about the chosen trajectory: ‘Existing and expected points of conflict appear to be numerous and serious.’ Yes, the trajectory to which the majority, all except SV, now grants money, violates the Storting's own guidelines for protected watercourses, vandalises Melhu's centre and becomes a significantly more expensive solution in the long term when new sections of E6 are to be solved. Why does the majority waver into such a blindfolded solution? The only argument I've heard, and it also presented the representative Kofoed-Larsen, is that it's time to get started. No, it is not time if construction is not a good solution to the traffic problems, because this should be a long-term solution. On the SV side, we see both Tautra, Hardangervidda and E6 Melhus as important environmental issues, and we have the power to base it on all three issues, while the majority in this room obviously collapses in exhaustion when they get the bridge to Tautra in place. Now the conciliators are going to get a small plus for increased collective action. Here we have a proposal from the SV on input-driven financing, a government funding mechanism to motivate grant systems where companies are to be premiered on the basis of winning customers, not just for mileage outbounds. Right and we also have a common proposal on youth rebates. It is important to give incentives so the growing generation of friends to travel collectively. Good habits are good to take with you. So right is writing about its increased collective investment of 190 million. NOK, but when we subtract the cut from the purchase of rail services, they're going to be minus 277 million. kr. A majority of us have made two premises for next year's route production on the railway. It is that route production should not be reduced and that tariffs should not increase more than the overall price increase, i.e. 2.1 pst. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee says that if it is not possible to do within the framework of the draft budget and the conciliation, 987 million. kr, the Government shall return to Stortinget. Then I assume that it is to increase the state purchase of passenger transport by rail. That's why it has to come back to Stortinget. For NSB BA, two items of income – these are the customers and government purchases. And if you're not going to be able to add more to your customers, then there's another place, the government purchase, that can change. However, there is a large ‘but’ in the budget. It's the investments in the railway sector. Everyone's been talking a lot about the railway here, but no one comes to our responsibility. The working party says in its general note that the long-term plan of the Jagland government is on the ground, but when the planning period is over, only 92 pst. fulfilled by the frameworks. Despite that, there will be a reduction of 150 million. kr next year. During all these four years, the centre block has been in the budgets, either from the government offices or as a conciliatory partner, and they were more ambitious than the government of Jagland in 1997. The Centre's goal was to increase by SEK 3.2 billion in relation to the Jagland government, and they have not been able to comply with the Jagland government's framework in four budgets. It's embarrassing. They didn't get another penny for the railway agreement. Is it because money for the railway is not suitable as a Christmas card to send home? It is also embarrassing to read the Workers' Party's comments on the objectives of increased safety, punctuality, capacity and reducing travel time, while at the same time reducing appropriations. It is embarrassing to read the comments of the centre on repatriating the train as an attractive transport option, while the appropriations go down. It has been a special year for the railway sector, not least with the Asta accident. The railway system has developed a plan to increase safety on the network where it is proposed to use 400 million. kr next year. But the appropriations are going down, and the bulk of the grossing-up can't be taken seriously to mean that the railway works are going to stop starting and planning projects to redispatch? Does not this hall have any responsibility for getting railway policy on the rails, which so many people are talking about. Is it just the NSB and the Railway Agency that are responsible? The frames are laid here! Unfortunately, the media serves as the helpers of the majority. They focus the search light on the NSB and the Railway Station, which may be justified. But they're letting us out of the search light. We're not going to be able to accommodate the framework conditions that are given from here. The pianist shoots, not only for the false sounds that may be heard, but also for the melody that is composed in government and greatness, and that the pianist is required to play. We have no railway policy in this country, and little indicates that we're going to get someone. There are tumultuous objectives without instruments. So I'm finally going to deal with some district policy issues. When we scrambled Hardangerbrua in its time, there were beautiful promises from this pulpit about the great work to be done, with race protection and repair of the road standard in Hardanger. There is a big difference between the promises and the realities. The job done in these years is too small. It looks like it's hard to trust what's promised in this forum. So a little rose -- maybe especially to the center -- that goes on this with fares and discounts on ferries. It's an important district policy tool, sail if I think the ambition for free ferries may well be great. But in relation to other tools to be used, I think this was good action. I'd say in the future maybe frequency is as important to view as price, but if you're able to combine them, that's good. So a few words about the fishing ports out in the districts, and in that context, I would like to commend the Workers' Party that, despite the miserable efforts of the central government, they have managed to fill the plan 100 pst. They've caught up in the aftermath. But I'm a little bit more critical that the Storting is tempted to go into individual priorities, which ports are going to get money. In fact, to give priority, you need knowledge, and we don't have that knowledge. The priority is to be at state level, and then here we start to control things that we don't have the prerequisite for governing. I think that's a pity. In the case of regional airports, the investment framework of the Aviation Agency is discussed. But they must also be given priority within their framework. And what they're doing today is prioritizing dispatch buildings and terminals at the main route aerodromes in front of the short-haul airports. And there's no Storting willing to put down his foot. [[The President clubs]] I will end by making suggestions – and then the Ofotbanen did not get the report it should have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e722	The representative Myrvoll has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e727	SV will shut down Rv 7 over Hardangervidda from this winter. We know so far little about the traffic scene after the Lærdal tunnel is opened. Much indicates that traffic over Hardangervidda is still high. Now we also know that the road over Hardangervidda is an old roadway that has been lying there at all times. Does the representative Inge Myrvoll see that this is a lifeblood for a region that lives largely from tourism? Doesn't SV mean it's good district policy? Does SV and the representative Myrvoll not believe that there is a need for an alternative route for that reason? In addition, all new road projects in the government budget and all road projects are in the budget agreement in District Norway. How can SV think that the majority is too small in the districts and too much in the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e737	I believe that we do not actually need four East-West connections: Haukeli, Hardangervidda, Aurland-Hol and Lærdal, where there are two alternatives, Hemsedal and Fillefjell. When you go through traffic figures, you see that the road across Hardangervidda has very limited significance as a life-saver in winter. I see that that last winter was 270 cars per day. days in November, 216 in December, 108 in January, 161 in February, etc. In other words, very limited traffic. But if that traffic were to be maintained in the coming winter, I still believe it is right to close the road for the reasons I have stated here before, and then the environmental grounds are the most important. But I actually also see Hardangerwideda as a greater safety risk than the other east-west connections, so that I have so far found no reason not to close the road, except, of course, that some of the traffic is local traffic, which will get a detour. But for those who are going to Bergen – Oslo, it is so that according to the ministry it takes eight minutes longer to drive over Hemsedal. And there weren't so many minutes more about a chosen Fillefjell. In other words, it's not something to save on time, but it's something to save on. But that's not the main reason. These are, above all, the environmental and safety reasons. In fact, in other places in the country, you're concerned about maybe having one safe winter road. Ask people in Havøysund! If they had had one safe winter road, they would have been satisfied. Then I don't understand why you should have four open winter roads between east and west. It must be enough to be able to choose between two or three.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e744	SV likes to call themselves district friendly. But the representative Inge Myrvoll, who is from Northern Ireland, should know that what is needed most in the districts is better roads and not the railways, on which the UK is betting. Has the representative forgotten his districts? From the budgetary position, it is clear that SV has over 2 billion kroner in cape reduction. 1320 State Road Service in relation to the proposals of the Advance Party. That's 588 million. kr less for the operation and maintenance of our highways, and more than DKK 1.4 billion less for national road investments. Does the representative Inge Myrvoll think this is a good district effort? In the case of the E6 trajectory through Melhus centre, the population of Melhus has waited long enough on this road, after, among other things, has been trained by Stortinget. The municipality has taken a majority position, which SV should also respect. Or does Myrvoll think that it is SV who should decide what Melhus" people should think?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e753	SV shall not determine what Melhus" people should mean. However, Melhus' population should not necessarily determine where to go through Norway, whether to intervene in sheltered watercourses, in food grain soils, etc. I also know there's a big split in Melhus. But one feels that one is faced with the choice of two poor solutions: one, which is almost always in the eleven, and the one chosen, while what could have been good solutions, is set aside in the preparatory work. It's not our fault. When it comes to roads and railways, I actually try – and sometimes I succeed – to think of two thoughts at the same time, namely that forms of transport have their strengths. Railways have their strength in some areas, roads on others. So one has to see this in context. It is that in parts of the districts the railway also has its function. I think, for example, that for freight transport from my own country, to mention it, the Northern Railway may also play a role. If you think of transport from Nordland to Oslo, actually, about 60 pst goes. by land-carried goods on the road. Not to mention the transport of fish from Narvik, which is now beginning to go into Europe. The representative, Nistad, from the Progress Party, spoke here earlier today about "rakefish". No, when it comes on the track, there is a transport that the road does not have the chance to compete with time and punctuality, not to mention environmental policy, because the EU will also be busy getting transport away from the crowded roads because there is no more space. So the railway is going to have its function for the districts as well. Otherwise, I would like to take a new lecture on the excellence of the railway where it is, and the necessity of roads in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e762	I think the representative of Myrvoll should be commended for being concerned about his homeland and his district of North Norway. I record that SV says they have completely different priorities in terms of road investment than the bulk of the population, and SV says in a note: ‘Our bet area is a strengthened district profile’. In line with this, SV proposes to reduce the allocations in the central eastern region. They reduce the appropriations for E6 Oslo-Svinesund. They reduce the appropriations allocated to Gutu-Kopstad on E18. And then they give priority to E6 over the Korg Mountain. So far, I think SV's proposals are logical. But I want to ask a question to SV, who has gone into the tunnel project in Bjørvika, a project of the size of NOK 22.5 billion, a project that in many ways is as much a urban development project as a transport project. It will come from the same framework for purposes of transport. How can the representative Myrvoll defend such a project when, at the same time, according to his priorities, he really needs these funds to go to District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e769	I would have liked to have done even more cuts on the roads in the central east and placed them on the Korg mountain, or for racial protection in Hardanger I would have placed a little, and for racial protection in Møre and Romsdal. But now it's not that you have to think that SV spends less money on investment in the central East than other parties. It's just that we're using them on the railway. In our primary budget, we've added 900 million to the railways. kr on the investment side. Unfortunately, almost everything comes down here, because this is where we have to prioritize the railway. It's with a little bit of a hard heart that it gets like that, but it's transport policy necessary to do it. I should have moved even more money to District Norway on the road. Then I appreciate to the extent of the question of Bjørvika, because I initially agree with the representative Gjerpe Hansen – this is not a road project really, but an urban development project, which can give you a new, exciting development area in Oslo and make Oslo a more beautiful city. But it's precious. But because this is a development project, I'm concerned about funding. Where will the money come from? I do not want to collect a lot of money from the Ministry of Transport's budget for this. That is why I believe, because it is a development project, that we should look at other forms of funding. I'm of the opinion that in Oslo there's too much cheap in the bombing. If you had raised the amount from $15 to $20, you would have gotten $300 million. kr annually to spend extra on urban development and transport development. Then we have some plots. And we should take a critical look at the port system's right to its own port box, where they have enormous values. Realize a little bit of this, and then we have urban development in Bjørvika as a result.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e781	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e784	Communication is a key area of policy. Through transportation, we bind the country together. But we also bind up different areas of policy. I'm thinking, among other things. on environmental protection, industrial development, district and welfare policies. City and country are mutually dependent on each other. It should be good to live in pig-grown struts and in larger population concentrations. Both urban and rural areas face specific challenges that require different transport policy solutions. This is the last transport budget we have to deal with during this major period. In the budget proposal, we are invited to take a position on several fundamental issues related to e.g.: the organisation of different trade unions, the association and role of different supervisory bodies, the organisation of public transport, etc. The Transport Committee is responsible for the handling of St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002-2011. The left will, in dealing with this coma, with its views on these different issues as well as other important options to take. The government's proposal to the State budget has undergone major changes in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left. As I said in the introduction, social policy and environmental policy are linked. The transport sector is one of the major sources of climate change emissions, and car traffic is an important cause of poor air quality in some urban areas. It was so important for the Left to get away with VAT on public transport and cyclical charges, which would have very negative consequences for collective provision. This is closing. One also received an increase in transfers to the municipalities and municipalities with DKK 1.25 billion. This means that one avoids alert cuts in the collective supply around the country. For the left, it was a high priority to get more funds for public transport. The budget agreement resulted in an increase of 190 million. kr for this purpose. Left wanted to use an essential part of these funds for good collective action in our cities. Ninety-five million. kr is set at the disposal of the largest cities and Akershus County. In a close dialogue between the populace of these states and cities, there is now a possibility of finding good measures that can make more people choose collective transport solutions rather than private cars. It is important to clarify that these funds should not replace local authorities' regular contributions. We've actually seen that some states have evaluated. In addition, it's set at 45 million. kr on an own item which is also to be used for good collective actions upon application by county councils. I've been working on the introduction of youth cards in the Hordaland state. The representative Oddvard Nilsen spoke of it as «von in hanging cords». The left is producing this in Hordaland in 1983, and we are closed to having it introduced in 1996. Juvenile discount schemes will make young people travel more collectively, and they will also choose this mode of transport later. The left is very pleased that there are multiples to ask the Government to come back to the Storting with measures, including a discount system, which will help to increase the collective share among young people in the context of the revised national budget or in another appropriate way. The left also wanted to use funds to increase the number of collective travellers in those parts of the country that depend on good ferry connections. This could be a few more by allowing the State to cover the passenger charges on the ferries. This could result in a lower ticket price for ferry-dependent bus routes. This will be repeated in the context of the management of the national transport plan. In the budget agreement, it was a good deal to wind up the compensation scheme for car diesel charges for express buses, as ESA has asked questions about the scheme. The express buses are an environmentally friendly, flexible and reasonable collective resource and have a lot to say for districts where express buses are often the only collective service. The compensation must therefore be seen as evidence for important public services, and the Left is satisfied that one has added another 50 million. kr on this item. The left has sought to halve its holiday rates because ferry costs represent a significant cost and competitive disadvantage for coastal businesses. The budgetary agreement takes an important step in the right direction as we have had an impact on tariff freezes and in order to improve discount arrangements for those who travel a lot. These discount schemes will also be a theme that you will learn more about when managing your national transport plan. In the case of both onshore and at sea, security must be given the highest priority. The left is very pleased that one in the budget agreement has been given greater privileges to ensure safety at sea. In the 2000 budget agreement, transfers to the rescue skates were reduced and the funds moved to the fairgrounds. In the year’s budget agreement, an increase of 10 million was granted to the Rescue Company. kr, the permission to update digital charts was increased by 20 million. kr, and a total accumulation has given the Government a clear message that by 2006 a digital navigation map will be up-to-date across the coast. Another important pillar of security along the coast is not in place. Former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum was completely in the final phase of the work on a separate staging message about rescue helicopters when the government of Bondevik left. After repeated requests, Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem has now informed us that this message will not arrive until the next spring. Bringing down the response time of rescue helicopters to a maximum of 15 minutes is an important measure to increase the safety of both coastal, oil and fishing activities. There's a hurry to get a clarification. The government’s proposal for national road investment showed a nominal reduction in the 2000 budget of 407.8 million. kr, or 9,4 pst. The budget agreement gave an increase of 115 million. kr. In the view of the Left, it is important to give priority to security. Improvements in Rv 33 and Rv 3 are necessary to improve road safety and road safety. Forty million. kr is intended for the necessary race protection project in Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal. The completion of the project Rv 650 Tierkorn-Viset has been prioritised in Møre and Romsdal, with which one can now start this project in the summer of 2001. This in turn will allow the next project, Rv 651 Greivsnes-Løviknes, to be launched earlier. When it comes to the project Brutra in Nord-Trøndelag, this is an environmental project that has been earmarked for earlier, but it was useful for other projects in 2000. It was now important to clarify whether a person would use resources to solve the major environmental problems that had arisen. In the Left's view, it would be a clear weakening of our environmental reputation if we had now done as the Government suggested, simply to put this project away. The left is therefore pleased that a number of projects can be launched in 2001 and completed in 2002. NSB is in the wind during the day – heavy headwinds from all sides are claimed. The main task of the NSB is to provide a safe and prudent collective service for its customers. The left is satisfied that the maintenance budget of the Railway Agency has been increased. Good maintenance increases regularity and security. In connection with the national transport plan, we have to make some ‘road choices’ when it comes to the further development of the railway infrastructure. For the left, it is important that ‘bottleneck’ No. 1 – missing double tracks Asker – Skøyen – soon to be designed. We are therefore satisfied that there is a set of means to continue this work. The left, on the other hand, is concerned about the situation in the NSB when it comes to planning. We are aware that it has been a year with the change of rental in the company. But we're worried about the different signals that come from NSB's ability to fulfill its vision of becoming Norway's most resource-efficient and socially useful transport business. It would be desirable to get an overview of the situation in the NSB before making important choices for the future railway structure in Norway in the national transport plan. Finally, a few words about the Aviation Agency. The representative, Ola Røtweg, expressed his concern about the situation in the Aviation Administration in his speech, pointing in particular to the need for a prudent return policy. It's the Left Unity in it. I have previously said that the Left will come back with its views on the organisation of different agencies and supervision. But now, when the Swedish Aviation Agency goes in and wants to participate in different hotel projects, I'm just going to signal that the principle is the Left towards this. On the one hand, the Swedish Aviation Agency has great authority to object to important plans with which the municipalities come, and on the other hand, to participate in projects in competition with private operators. So I argued that this would be postponed until the Storting managed the national transport plan and gave its view on important fundamental clarifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e833	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e836	In addition to being taxpayers, these drivers have also been the country’s largest dairy cow in terms of income to the country. Does not the representative of May Britt Vihovde think that it is reasonable for the drivers to get back to road and road safety measures more than the crumbs that the representative Vihovde wants to introduce into the road sector through the budgetary cooperation with the Workers' Party? The representative is also concerned with the protection of the environment and has been involved in public transport, but can it be impossible for small businesses along the coast to send fish and other goods by bus? What the districts need are better roads and perhaps better ports, but no more buses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e843	The left is in agreement with the Progress Party that it is important to give priority to some road projects in order to lighten the costs to business, so that we can get what we want to export, out of Norway. But I'm not quite the same in the production of the representative, Stensaker, about the car charges. Because there are many other elements that need to be included in a total cost estimate of what car rental costs Norway. I'm thinking, among other things. for environmental protection costs, health costs, etc. So it was the question of whether the fish could be sent on the bus. Yes, think if we could get holistic transport corridors in connection with the national transport plan, where the fish could perhaps be sent by plane or boat in a more environmentally friendly way, so that we could not load on the road network! But in the left, we are also concerned about improving the bottlenecks that exist, so as to ease the cost to business. So we're very happy that we've got a budget deal where we've at least taken a few steps along the coast, including that. reducing shipping costs, which means a lot to industry along the coast of Norway. A review of the whole discount scheme is also announced in the national transport plan. The transporters are sitting with the clean deck of the driver's seat when they're going down our coast. The left is busy exporting the goods. We are also involved in and support actions in Eastfold to remedy E6, which also has a great deal to say for the fishing industry in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e852	The left is at its best when the party talks about the need for efficiency improvement and a slimmer public sector with much better cost control. By outsourcing some development and maintenance tasks, the Railway Agency has achieved an efficiency gain of up to 40 pst. Competitive outsourcing of output in the Road Administration will allow significant efficiency gains to be made. We could get more and better roads and maintenance for the same money. And that should be in the spirit of the Left. But when it comes to concrete proposals, the Left is voting against. What could come out of that there's so far between life and learning in the left at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e857	The left is actually concerned with efficiency and a simpler Norway. We are concerned with improving the efficiency of both state-owned management companies and state-owned businesses. When a part of this applies, we will come back to it in connection with the national transport plan. There we will see the soundness of both the State Road Service, the Swedish Railway Agency, the Swedish Aviation Agency, the NSB and some other important agencies. It is also important that we have an actor who, in competition with other private businesses, can participate in stabilising developments. But we in the Left are very much in agreement with the Right that there is a need for greater competition against the State Road Service and the State Road Service Production Department, and we will come back to how far we are willing to go when it is due to turn this into AS if it can be profitable. But I want to say to the right: the right is with the left very concerned that the different supervision should have the most possible free role. And so it surprised me when, in a debate earlier this week, I felt that the Right and Left were on a very similar line basically about the freedom of the various supervisory arrangements, but that the Right did not have the same threat to the freedom of State's pollution control.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e866	Once upon a time, in the last century, I have a faint memory of the environmental party Left. I remember wrong, it's been a long time. So I wondered if I remember wrong, or if there's something called the environmental party left, and how they relate to, for example. winter break over Hardangervidda, drawbar to wild reindeer trunk. Is there something that captures the left? In this context, I think of the E6 in Melhus, about this with intervention in protected watercourses, these guidelines that the Stortinget laid down around 1994-95, whether it means something to the Left, whether they think it's okay with major interference in food grain soil, what they think about this with unnecessary fury of housing and business buildings. Here we are talking about small and barely enough medium-sized enterprises, mostly small ones, which do not even solve the transport problem. I was wondering if the environmental party left has any answer to those issues, or is it just Tautra?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e871	I hope that the representative Myrvoll has at least found out that the environmental party Left was involved in securing a good environmental profile on the transport budget. We have lost VAT on public transport, and we have strengthened efforts on collective provision. So I want to start by saying something about E6 and Melhus. This is a dilemma for me and for the Left, and we are some with SV in that the project that is there, with start-up, may not be a good project. But I want to see this in context when we are going to deal with the national transport plan. I want to see it in conjunction with the development of the freight terminal in Trondheim, where the Center Party, Left and SV have a different view of how things can develop. I want to see this in context. So, of course, we feel a little tied up by a budget settlement when it comes to entering and being able to move these money to what SV has suggested. But we're very concerned about that, so it comes back to us. When it comes to winter breakage at Hardangervidda, Left wants to see the wholeness of this. We want to look at the consequences of developments in Upper Busherud and Internal Hardanger before we draw a conclusion. I want to take a closer look at what is going on about environmental impacts, and I also want to look into whether there are any measures that we can put in place. Row 7 is an important trajectory for inner Hardanger, for the development that is taking place there, and we see that a lot of work is being done. There is a negative trend in job closure, both in the outer part of Hardanger and also in the interior. Then we have to see what the consequences are. But we're concerned about the environmental consequences. We're concerned about the security, which we've pointed out is that we'll have more detailed documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e880	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e883	The budget setting of the next year's Transport Committee is a less comprehensive document than usual. Short in content, based on the treatment of the national transport plan that comes in February 2001. There were the long lines for the next ten-year period. But the financial framework of the year is something "spikji" to use a slope expression. Some of us, especially in the Committee on Transport, could find room for using greater promises, and no one should say that it lacks good projects. So is it that transportation is only part of the state budget. The Labour Party has presented its priorities in the financial settings in relation to what we went to vote on, and got multiples for it along with the center. Safe communications both on land and on water are important. Both the traditional industry and not least the new industries before farming need good communication years. The value of good communication with the outside world of people living and living in District Norway should not be underestimated either. We have to ring around our districts. That's where the values are created for everyone's common good. As you can see, there will always be a fight for the crowns to solve traffic problems in urban areas, against distances and opportunities to get production to the market. For me, as the Labour Party's fractional officer on all chapters of the coast and port business, it's so happy that there's a lot of positive things to deal with. I want to start by mentioning the increase to the Rescue Company. Thank you for the budgetary agreement with the centre party that it came into place. The job The rescue company does, is affordable, but the government's most important task with the funds that were within the original proposal was to use as much as possible for labelling and security measures. I'll find a reason to underline it. Ports have been expanded in the last four-year period under a 100 pst schedule. But we can probably get even more ports and more maintenance for the crowns if the work is completed, even if the budget may be exceeded before equipment is moved to new projects. The fourteenth is changing. It shall be notified to the Committee for its management in March. The outgoing message has recently been evaluated. In it we have added leads for unloading that we do not yet fully see the results of. But I feel the need to respond to the Right and the Progress Party who in their comments are very critical of the increase in the fee. More unloading increases income, but also costs. It's self-financed. The coastal site is facing major changes in the time to come. The Committee is in the process of managing a notification of reorganisation. On behalf of us in the Labour Party, I can already signal that Oslo will not be the address in the future. We believe that a shared solution between the production department in Kabelvåg and the administrative department in Ålesund will be a good base for building up the Coastal Plant to be the world's best. Yeah, we're going to add up the list high, and this is the first step to reach that goal. So a little budget matter at last, but an important thing, not least for Upper Busherud. I find reason to thank the majority in the Committee for the fact that the brewing of Rv 50, Hol-Aurland took place in this year's budget. It's about small funds, but it has a lot to say. I believe that experience with this season, where both Rv 7 and Rv 50 will be broken in winter, will provide the Committee with a good basis for the assessments to be made in the autumn. What road should be closed? What kind of assessments should be on the basis? Is it security, cost, environment or regularity? We've got a lot of recordings in the last video that have to count with. Nevertheless, I must be allowed to express concern if both trajectories east-west become winter-linked in a region where 30 pst. of the population lives on tourism. We are in Hallingdal on average twice as many inhabitants as those who have the address say there, precisely because of tourism, and the years of traffic have gone there at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e910	Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Transport. It is funny that, at the same time, in the newspaper today, there is a notice of a life-threatening dust coming from non-rigid tyres. When you think about the debate that's been going on in this room about how environmentally friendly it was to go to non-rigid tyres, you have to wonder if the world of reality is the way it appears very often in this room. At least one thing is certain, and that is that the truth does not last forever. We have dangerous roads. People are killed every day. The E6 through Northland is like a ditch. Trailers lie overturned outside the Korg mountain every week through the winter. God's law has been little snow this year, so so far we haven't seen the big headlines. We just have a life-threatening railway. Railway accidents have become a daily phenomenon. We have partially life-threatening rents. It hit me the other day when I came rattling up Karl Johan from the Central Station that there is better light in the traffic lights on Karl Johan than we have in many places on the coast. It's a serious comparison. We can't afford it, we say. No, we don't. We can't spend the money in Norway. They must be sent abroad, must know, and placed in funds for future generations. I often wonder, can we afford to live in this country longer? The infrastructure is essential for the functioning of industry and exports in districts. Investments in large monks are necessary to achieve this. Then it is nice that maritime transport has been so lowly assessed, and that so little effort is being made on that possibility. What is being done to research high-speed cargo boats, which do not make life-threatening dust on the road, which are environmentally friendly and can take large volumes? A regular coastal cargo boat can carry 10 trailers on one keel. It's a regular coastal cargo boat. There is still a great need to improve the labelling of rentals. It's been granted extra money this year. But I must confess with shame that the Ministry of Fisheries's share of the large state budget that we deal with every year is a little puzzling. I have a question for the Council of State that sits in the hall. We asked for an investigation on rent west of Vega, and in the state budget the department writes that it was not until 1993 that it was updated in connection with the oil base in Lake Sandness to get the rent noticed. No, that's not right. Harald Warholm was at Stortinget in the 1960s. He died, by the way, while he was a great representative of the Right. He worked on it already then, so that's a requirement that's far from 40 years old. Now it's updated again, for Transocean, the world's largest rigging company, wants rigging in for them to go through class and service in Brønnøysund. Isn't it time to do something about it? I have to remind you again of a Document No. 8 proposals for debt cancellation of DKK 10 billion, equivalent to what was given to the Gardermoban in depreciation. I hope that the Committee will take this into account when it comes to dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e929	A prerequisite for the development of societies and nations is good communication between people and a transport policy that takes care of the need for transport. In Norway, major changes in transport needs have occurred in recent years at sea, on land and in the air. This poses major challenges as traffic increases, in particular in the field of safety. Much remains to be done, and safety is in line with the needs of users, and for our industry and trade both within Norway and with abroad, it is therefore important that politicians take the problem seriously. In addition to the traditional communication systems, electronic channels have also evolved and changed their daily lives in the thousands of homes in which the data age has taken up. The debate on transport today is marked by good wishes, but it is not enough when we know that there is still a great need for increased safety both at sea and at land. The budget again shows the unwillingness of the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties to grant the necessary funds. Consultations in the context of the transport budget also bear the hallmark of great frustration among users of the road network. There is also great frustration among the drivers who do not understand that so little of the state's involvement in car and car use comes back in the form of better roads and better accessibility. And I understand that very well. What can be done to improve the situation? The Progress Party considers that there is a need for a significant increase in national public transport resources for road purposes, including road safety and environmental measures. The progress party regards the car as one of the most important and necessary means of transport in Norway, especially in the districts. Without access to personal transport to work, school, leisure, procurement and social contact, District Norway will be affected. This time, the Transport Budget is marked by the compromise reached between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties and that there is no room for many important road projects or the increased need for money for operation and maintenance. As a result, road capital declines and the cost of society increases later. Here the Progress Party hopes that the other parties will soon understand that a take-off must be made, but unfortunately their budget does not bear the mark of it. Over long distances, aeroplanes are superior to all other means of communication. It is therefore important that competition on Norwegian domestic flights and routes from Norwegian airports to the rest of the world continues. Unfortunately, the level of taxes and charges leads to the opposite, and therefore routes and airports are at risk of being closed down. The Progress Party also believes that the State contributes to the lack of a level playing field for all operators in Norwegian aviation, by allowing the company in which the State holds interests to fill fuel abroad, in order to use this fuel on Norwegian domestic routes. They thus avoid Norwegian fuel taxes, while those who do not have this option lose their competitive position. It is also a fact that the state is milking Norwegian aviation at a fee, just as they are doing with the driving industry. These are factors that are essential when discussing framework conditions in an enterprise that is important for Norwegian infrastructure, business and tourism. The Progress Party also wants Norwegian maritime transport to be strengthened by making it attractive to private interests and for port facilities to be taken over and operated by private individuals in line with market needs. The Progress Party is also committed to increasing the deployment of electronic navigation aids, with particular emphasis on electronic navigational charts. The Progress Party has therefore invested 35 million in its alternative budget. kr extra in relation to the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties to ensure that the maps are in order by 2006, as planned. Better labelling of our coastal fairways is also important in order to improve the safety of both people and goods. In this context, the Progress Party proposes that 50 million be allocated. kr extra for this, which also means the start of the tunnel project through the State. It was frightening to see that the Stoltenberg government in its budget proposed to reduce the grant to the Rescue Company, so that six boats were in danger of being put in storage, when we know that in 1999 166 people were rescued from drowning death, 134 ships were rescued from total destruction and 9,935 people were given different assistance, where 1710 vessels were also assisted. That is why the Progress Party increased its budget by 15 million. additional NOK to the Rescue Company. In the case of the railway, this has good characteristics in the case of heavy goods which are to be carried over long distances and which do not depend on time. But in the case of passenger transport, in my opinion, only the intercity trains can run economically. I would like to point out that the railway plays a de minimis role in the transport of people and goods in Norway. The total cost of railway operations and investments paid by the drivers is approx. NOK 4.9 billion, a very high number, given that the railway only transports approx. 4.2 pst. of passenger traffic in Norway and only 7.8 pst. of the carriage of goods. The Progress Party believes that competition must be created in rail transport. I would like to point out that the high investment costs of the railway have a very marginal impact on accessibility, capacity and the environment. The Progress Party will give priority to the safety of the existing lines before investing in new railway projects due to the recent accidents in the railway sector. The budget of the Progress Party is based on the fact that in the future, motor and road traffic will continue to play a dominant role in Norwegian transport, while the Government intends to reduce car use and prioritize public transport in this budget. In fact, the investment rate in the main road network has been reduced, but some alternative transport services are not proposed. The result will be a clean cut budget without any tools to solve the problems in Norwegian commerce.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e957	So far in the debate we might conclude that it is ‘same procedure as last year’. Maybe we haven't seen so many chiefs who have something to offer here today, but you're the world of so many counties we've experienced, who want to be served something on the transportation menu. But since many of the groups have Christmas closing tonight, it is perhaps good that we have no bear skin on the floor to relate to beyond the afternoon. Let's face it: this is the fourth budget debate I'm taking part in here at Stortinget. Those who have also been present during the previous three debates may recall that I have used most of my speaking time to defend the railways in Norway – not to defend the NSB and the railway works in thick and thin, but to constantly try to further develop and improve the Norwegian railway system. This year I intend to open a little differently. Last Tuesday, the following was read in the Evening Post: ‘Where the State does not wish to increase the grants, it is not possible for the NSB to provide discounts on the monthly tickets to the same extent as before.’; And who said this? Yes, one of the NSB's directors. As I have not seen any dementia, I assume that the NSB is in favour of this statement. I'm sorry, I have to spend some time on this. On 21 April last year the Stortinget dealt with the two-year ownership notice for the NSB. The size drew up the overall lines for the country's ownership of the traffic company NSB. Let me refer to St.meld. No 19 for 1998-99 on a few points: ‘In line with the 1998-2007 NJP, the planning framework for the purchase by the State of passenger transport services for the period 1998-2001 is of a size of 4 billion. kr. Within this framework, it has been suggested that today’s train production can be continued. Coverage of capital costs related to the purchase of new train equipment has also been taken into account.’ And on the other hand, ‘In order to meet the needs of the NSB for predictability in production, the new agreement provides for a framework agreement between the parties to be negotiated every 4 years. The framework agreement negotiated for the period 1998-2001 is based on the guidelines drawn up in the NJP 1998-2007.» We have not heard any wish from the NSB that more money is needed for so-called public purchase. Yes, when the Rome export was put into service and the train production increased, it was even informed by the NSB that the train production would increase without anyone needing more for public purchase. In other words, the NSB has received what they have asked for from Stortinget. I will accept criticism for the fact that the appropriations for the railway’s journey, i.e. to the Railway Agency, have been and are too low, but I do not find myself in being criticised for having granted the NSB’s request. The statement that the State does not wish to increase the subsidies to the NSB falls on its own unfairness. First, such desires must be made, but this should not be done through the Evening Post. The trust that NSB has among many old railway friends, including here in the hall, is currently extremely thin. Let me therefore take this opportunity to congratulate the new board of directors and the newly appointed CEO of the NSB on their efforts to get all the figures and facts on the table. Since it was clearly necessary to have a clean-up policy before the Ministry of Transport and the NSB could agree on the next year’s purchase agreement, the Stortinget has not yet received the amount required for the NSB for the following year. The majority therefore provisionally grant the same amount for the next year as for this year, a close billion. We assume that the year’s train production is based on 2001, and that the rate increase does not exceed the average price increase. Then the department gets back to the new year if this can't be done within the appointed framework. I would like to say to the representative of Myrvoll that much indicates that we have to increase the appropriations for public purchases. I have recorded that some people think it is surprising that the majority believe that the tariffs should not increase more than the price increase. The committee leader was in on it, the representative Nistad was in on it, and today's edition of the Evening Post states that the NSB management is surprised that Stortinget has said that the tariffs should not increase more than the price increase. Then I want to ask both the NSB management and the co-representatives to do something as simple as looking up in the committee position last year, two years ago and three years ago. The committee majority said the exact same thing then.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e986	In Norway, the main gravity of population and business is located near the coast. Therefore, maritime transport is important and of great importance in the Norwegian transport system. In the Christian People's Party we are busy getting more of the freight away from the road and over on the boat. We therefore want to focus more strongly on coastal infrastructure. Ports are important links between maritime traffic and land traffic, and good maritime and land-side connections are necessary for ports to fulfil the function of connecting points in the transport corridors. In the Christian People's Party we will focus on this when dealing with the national transport plan, and we will already signal that we believe there is too much defensive treatment of maritime traffic in St.meld No. 46 for 1999-2000. Everything suggests that there is an enormous potential for development in the maritime sector in the future. Researchers are tracking the fishing and farming industry for a bright future, so the need for good feeding ports for landing fish will be reported with great strength. That's why I'm wondering that the Progress Party will take 5 million. kr from just entry 30 Fishing port facilities to use them in other areas. The cut is justified on the grounds that it can be saved on planning, research and management. It surprises me that a party that likes to call itself business-friendly does not see where the challenges of the future lie. From the government's draft budget, it may seem that the priority is given to ports at random. New projects that have not yet been planned suddenly appear, while over-ripe projects in large fishing ports are being pushed down the list. The Christian People's Party will already signal that we will have a review of the priority lists in relation to the treatment of national transport plans, so that important food and fisheries ports are given high priority. In the Christian People's Party, we give priority to safety at sea, and we are therefore pleased that the fireworks and brand services have been given increased appropriations in the budget. We have noticed that the long announced fire communication has been postponed, but we now assume that it will come in March, as promised. It's very gratifying that we've had 10 million. kr more to the rescue company in the budget agreement, thereby giving the rescue company the opportunity to maintain its activity at the current level. In the budget agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre, it was also set at 20 million. kr for the important work of generating electronic navigational charts. Here we are struggling with a aftermath that is not a coastal nation worthy of Norway. Furthermore, the centre parties have strengthened the ferry sector by 80 million. kr in the next year's budget. This means that prices are frozen at the level of the year. The tax increase the government had added, it won't be any of it. Two ferry routes have extended the opening time at night, and in addition we set off over 50 million. kr to improve the discount schemes for those who travel the most by ferry. This is good district policy. This reduces transport costs by approx. 10 pst. for those with the highest initial costs. For parts of the West and North Norway, ferry tariffs are as big a problem as diesel prices. In the budget we have now reduced the diesel price by 1.13 kroner from 1 July, and in addition to 10 pst. higher discount for those with the largest ferry costs. Furthermore, the fast route is, highway no. 1 on the Bergen–Kirkenes route, important, and it continues on the current agreement with the State. It is very gratifying that two new high-speed carriers are now being contracted, and the Christian People's Party will be helping to secure the future of the fast route. The Government has notified that the infrastructure plan for aviation has been delayed. It's a problem. Not in relation to the budget, but in relation to the national transport plan. The aim of the national transport plan is to see the modes of transport in the context. If we don't know what the Government wants with the aviation infrastructure, we need an important piece. Future structure will mean a great deal for investment at existing airports, and the need to rationalise and possibly shut down some airports must have consequences in terms of priority being given to roads to the airports at which we wish to invest. For example, a better and shorter route from Narvik to Evenes is a local condition if it is to be considered to lay down Narvik Airport in the future. And the Helgelands Cross must be secured if one is to bet on a single airport for the middle of Helgeland. There have been some lists in the press over a large number of decommissioned aerodromes. I expect that there are speculations and not a managed leakage from the Swedish Aviation Agency. Regional airports are of particular importance for individuals, health and business in the district of Norway. The Christian People's Party will not create a single airport without a total assessment, that it makes sense to travel, and not least that it has regional connection. In the Christian People's Party, we are also concerned with the costs of combining the use of the regional grid and the main route network. Flight prices for travellers to and from District Norway have become unacceptable. We are currently concerned that the NSB should not increase the prices of the collective network. In parts of District Norway, in many cases, the regional air routes have the same meaning as the train in central areas, and I wish we were just as concerned about keeping prices down on the regional air routes as on the train. In the Christian People's Party we will come back with our comments on the flight prices in the National Transport Plan. Finally. The agreement between the centre and the Working Party secured 115 million. in addition to the Government's draft budget for racial protection and roads in the districts. For the Christian People's Party, it was, among other things, It is important to highlight that we will prioritise completing Lofoten's continental link with start-up in 2001. The lofoot is today the only region in the country of some size that has no continental connection. The landline link is marked on maps from around 1930 onwards, and the first part of the project has already been completed for several years. It is therefore very gratifying that, in the budgetary agreement with the centre parties, the Labour Party opened up to move Lofast to the first part of its national transport plan and set aside 25 million. kr to start in 2001. Connecting the Lofoten fishing region directly to the ARE-tagons of Narvik is both a commercial and a commercial success. There are considerable time savings for business and great environmental benefits in transporting trains rather than trailers. Few other road projects have created a similar commitment to the local population, and Lofoten now trusts the conciliators to keep what they have promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1022	I am pleased that the bulk of the population is in favour of a social budget that essentially supports the government's transport policy. This applies, inter alia, to: priority for the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure and the commitment to safety. Long-term sustainability is essential for solving the major challenges we face. I believe that the government's draft budget, together with proposals for a national transport plan, provides a good basis for this. Initially, I also feel the need to say a few words about work with safety in the transport sector. We are reminded daily of the dangers associated with road transport. The AST accident has tragically made it clear to us that we can be vulnerable also in the case of rail transport. Yesterday, too, we experienced a tragic accident on the railway. The collapse of the telecommunications network in the Kristiansand area caused by excavations also demonstrated the vulnerability of society to breaches of vital telecommunications and computer systems. Let me therefore say: the government attaches great importance to high levels of security throughout the transport sector. This is also a vision I perceive that the whole Storting is behind it. However, there are no lightweight solutions. In the follow-up to the Commission's report following the AST accident, the Government will return with any need for additional appropriations. But money doesn't solve everything. Safety needs to be highlighted from many sides, including aspects of organisation, system thinking and attitudes. I can assure you that the Government will have security high on the case map in all sectors in the future. The agreement with the central parties has strengthened the transport budget in key areas such as public transport, ferry services and racial security. At the same time, I shall be the first to admit that the challenges in the transport sector are formidable, and that I could therefore, in isolation, have envisaged a larger budget. However, for the Workers' Party, there is still a high level of employment and the safeguarding of welfare systems are key elements of policy. The transport budget, like other budgets, must therefore be adapted at all times to a sound and comprehensive economic structure that does not lead the country into a new wage and price spiral, with which no one will be served. Both the Right and the Advance Party want to invest significantly more in the transport sector than the Government, in particular in road development. However, these parties always provide increased room for action in budgetary policy through proposals for strong cuts in welfare schemes, cutbacks that the Workers' Party cannot accept. At the same time, it is sometimes difficult to see the lines of the social policy of the right-hand party – in addition to a clockwise belief that most problems can be solved through tenders, the conversion of businesses into limited liability companies, privatisation and outsourcing. For what do the right-wing parties actually mean by the proposal to cut the appropriations for the purchase of services from the NSB by several hundred million dollars? In fact, the NSB has had serious problems in 2000, which I take very seriously. But do the Progress Party and the Right really believe that the NSB's problems can be solved, and that customers will be more satisfied by the reduction of the train's offer, which will be the case with such dramatic cuts? Conversion and renewal of the public sector is important for this government. In this context, the organisation and use of resources in the transport sector will also be assessed. However, the Labour Party is prepared to assess such issues on the basis of consumer interests and where employees are taken on board, and not on the basis of an ideological approach, where privatisation and outsourcing are themselves the objective. I see from the committee setting that the Right notes that the government is proposing to reduce the net framework for transport purposes by about 900 million. kr, and that this implies a strong depriority of the transport sector by the Government. This is wrong, and it knows the right. When comparing the Government's 2001 draft budget with the 2000 budget, we need to take account of a technical change in the system of reimbursement of sick pay and that previously designated schemes are included in the general framework grant to county municipalities. Of the additional funds resulting from the budgetary agreement, 140 million have been raised for investment. to actions in the field of public transport. The means shall be capable of being used for both investment, operation and operational infrastructure. I am pleased that public transport has been provided with additional funds, but I would like to stress the importance of this being put up in such a way as to provide real reinforcement in relation to the collective effort of the county councils, and that priority is given to measures that contribute to the sustainable strengthening of public transport. I also record that race insurance has been given extra funds in relation to the government's proposal. The government’s budget line for the ferry sector is essentially a continuation of the year’s offer. Budgetary agreement and strengthening of the ferry sector by 80 million. kr in the context that this does not rock. The funds provided are mainly intended to improve discount schemes and to freeze ferry tariffs in general. Of course, the wishes of the big business will be followed up, but I find reason to remember that we are also facing major challenges in the ferry sector. In the short term, negotiations with companies on production in 2001 may need to be considered both on the income side and on the cost side without excessive bonds. With regard to specific road installations, I would like to comment in particular on the proposal of 25 million. kr to Lofast. I would like to remind you that a launch of Lofast in the Government's proposal for a national transport plan has been listed in the last six-year period. Accelerating the project until 2001 will require a reprioritisation of the amount of DKK 1 billion to Lofast in the first four-year period. Any delay in this project therefore needs to be discussed in the context of the examination of the national transport plan, which I see the Committee proposing. I see that the majority of the committee maintains its comment in the Innst. S. No 180 for 1998-99 not to reduce ordinary régionalisation funds for Bergen as a result of the use of funds from the tolling scheme to finance Rv 555 Nygårdstangen-Gyldenpreis. I am of the opinion that Stortinget's previous remark has been followed up by funds allocated to Bergen in 2000. I believe that Stortinget also agreed to this through the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, when the Stortinget did not have any comments on the allocation to Bergen for 2000. Nor has the Committee opposed the need for the State to have access to the so-called Bombenge Fund. I would therefore like to assume that Bergen will make the funds available to the State Road Administration Hordaland as soon as possible. I would like to refer to the Committee's comment in its last year's budgetary position on the route and cycle path on the Brattåker-Rud route in the Hovet in Buskerud. In the year’s budget proposal, it is stated that the Ministry of Transport will take the initiative to start planning for the start of construction in 2002. I am aware that there is a strong local initiative to extend the project to the Lilleslett-Hansehaug section, and I will ensure that this is followed up in the further work of the Road Administration. I have also noticed that the majority of the committee is in favour of holding the Rv 50 open day in winter 2000-2001 as a probationary mechanism. This I will follow up. Safety and operational stability have been the focus of the railway. A well maintained infrastructure is necessary for the operational stability of the train running and for the operational safety associated with the infrastructure. Strengthening maintenance is a prerequisite for taking out the impact of NSB’s investments in heel trains and other new materials. On the investment side, the Government has chosen to give priority to the finalisation of existing projects, including tilting-train measures on the routes Sørlandsbanen, Bergensbanen and Dovrebanen. In addition, security measures and measures to improve operational conditions on existing networks are a priority. I am pleased that, within the framework of a tight budget, we can implement the proposed roll-out measures on Kongsvingerbanen and Østfoldbanen. The majority of the Committee considers that current train production continues in 2001 and assumes that the rate increase does not exceed the average price increase. In the national budget, the price increase is estimated to be 2.75 pst. in 2001. In our response to question No. 69 we have been injured to report 2.1 pst. Taking into account the necessary production adjustments as a result of the driver's situation, this will be taken into account in the further negotiations with the NSB, and I assume that the majority comment is directed against the agreement on the purchase of services and not the sections where the NSB operates on a commercial basis. I will come back to Stortinget with a statement of the budgetary implications after the negotiations with the NSB have ended. I have noticed the views of the majority of the committee on the NSB's charging of trains passing through the Rome sport. The Ministry assesses the different solutions and is prepared to reach a solution that, if possible, will adequately address all considerations. In the budget proposal, it is underlined that there is considerable uncertainty about traffic development in aviation in 2001. I am following developments continuously, and will, among other things, assess, on the basis of up-to-date calculations made by the Aviation Agency, the need to return to the Storting with a budget audit of the Aviation Agency if developments were to be significantly different from those foreseen in the budget proposal. The transport sector faces major challenges, including: as a result of developments in international, technological change, increased traffic and increasingly demanding users. Developments call on governments and businesses to facilitate good and efficient transport and communication solutions across the country. In particular, developments will make major demands on the State companies Posten and NSB. I point out that these will be dealt with in my own messages in the spring session. In addition, I look forward to a comprehensive and thorough discussion of the whole subject area in connection with the handling of the National Transport Plan by Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1060	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1063	The Council of State was much more secure in the transport sector, and the whole Committee agrees that this should be emphasised. Every year, the Railway Agency receives large sums, but in the recent days we have seen that the Railway Agency is being slaughtered and that the Railway Authority has a long list of measures that have not been carried out despite the deadline. NSB BA was previously in severe weather, both the manager and the board were replaced, and the NSB BA seems to have been corrected in relation to the points they have received from the Railway Authority. So the culture in the Railway Station doesn't seem to have changed. The Council of State was quick on the track after the Asta accident and gave full support to the Director of the Railway Agency, but now we read in the newspapers that the Director has been called up on the carpet of the Council of State, and that has never happened before. How does the Council of State assess the possibilities for the Railway Agency to implement the measures imposed, and what will the Council of State do if this does not work out? One more thing. On TV yesterday, the information manager at the Railway Station said he had asked for 125 million kroner. extra kr to solve a lot of problems with train crossings. Where in the draft budget for transport do these 125 million appear? Because I can't see that we've got any numbers that illustrate that you can do a lot more for these 125 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1072	In the budget presented by the Government, we have proposed a number of measures in the area of security, including: after recording from the Railway Station, and I mention signal and protective measures, acoustic alarms, logging, train radio, level crossing protection and race protection. It is also such that the railway works are in the process of meeting the requirements imposed by supervision. This is a work that we, on the part of the Department, are in dialogue with both the Authority and the Railway Agency in these days, and which we will of course follow up on. In the case of the above 125 million. It was the case that the Åsta Commission had a number of recommendations in the security field that provided the basis for new reviews, and the Ministry sent the Commission's report to, among others. The railway works, and we wanted to get a replay on what measures the railway works could implement. In this context, the Railway Agency indicated that it would be able to implement safety-related measures within a framework of up to 400 million. kr in addition to that contained in the Government's proposals for the State budget. This recording came to the department on November 22nd this year, and these 125 million. kr is, as far as I understand, part of the 400 mentioned. We will now go through this together with the Railway Agency in the light of the Commission's report and consider whether we should come back to Stortinget or whether we should come back to Stortinget in some planned form with a view to any re-priorities or proposals for further appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1079	The council said it was satisfied with the agreement with the centre that has given extra added value to the budget for transport, and it was nice for us to hear. I hope he thinks that there was a better budget than what the government had originally committed. I guess we'll agree on that. And it became positive. I have a question about rigid tyres, which are taken up in the media today. This applies to dust from non-rigid tyres. It says, ‘Pigfree gives life-threatening dust.’ When it came to the introduction of a tipping tyre fee maybe two and a half years ago, I actually addressed the issue of possible adverse effects of the content of the anti-fungal tyres – it was after an article that was in some media at that time. So now this issue is again addressed by Norwegian lung specialists. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he wants to take an initiative in an evaluation, whether he wants to look at the impact of the heavy-duty tyre charge and what opportunities there are to get to tyres that provide the best possible air in large cities – as the starting point for the heavy-duty tyre charge was – in order to minimise health damage. So there's one thing I'd like to ask about, and it's about freight transport. The Christian People's Party is committed to getting more freight from road to road. There is also a major debate in the EU on this issue, because, as it is now, there is an increasing increase in freight transport by road. This leads to increased pressure to develop new roads and an increasing risk of road accidents. What action does the Council of State see possible to take to achieve the result that quite a lot of us, both here at home and outside, are busy, namely getting more goods across from road to road?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1093	Based on what has been produced in the media today, I have conducted some preliminary studies – time has not allowed more than that – and at least I have been informed that public health is likely to provide a health assessment later today. It is clear that the assessments made here will be reasonably decisive in how we will deal with this in the future. However, I would like to establish one thing, that the tipping tires do not become more healthful even if the rigid tyres would prove to be harmful. I think it is very important to put in the bottom that particulate matter is actually a health problem, but it should not be excused that we might put ourselves in a new risk through non-rigid tyres. So that's what we have to take seriously and follow up on, and I'll make sure that we do in an appropriate way. With regard to the question of freight transport, I think it is right to have two objectives: not only to get more goods on the road, but also to get a greater share of goods handling on the keel, i.e. maritime transport – and both for environmental reasons. I have sat and listened to the debate and heard that the role of the NSB is referred to as de minimis. I deeply disagree with that. The role of the NSB is central and important where the NSB plays a role, but we cannot expect them to play a role across the country. Where we don't have a railway, of course, road transport is dominant. Through this draft budget and the decision here, we will ensure that there are profile extensions that can improve the possibility of freight transport on the road. The Ministry of Fisheries has taken steps to review the Port and Water Law so that we can get a better structure in terms of ports. This will allow us to take a number of concrete steps to achieve the environmental objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1107	There is no doubt that what has worried the vast majority of people during the year we are behind is the safety – and accidents – of our transport systems, whether sea, land or rail. It is important for most in the Committee – as I see it at least – for everyone has focused on exactly the same thing: they write committee comments and point out that safety remains the most important thing. Last year we got a proposition from the Ministry of Fisheries that is in a way affordable. In fact, a number of problems were highlighted in that sector and stressed that there was a shortage of money to increase safety at sea. And the committee did something about it. A joint committee went in and said yes, then we do something about it – and we did. I have great faith that it is the same thing that lies behind the budget of the Ministry of Transport. Then I hope the Council of State understands that when some people go out into the media and say we should have had 140 million. kr more because the security would then be so much better, I became deeply concerned. So it's not possible for a committee in Stortinget to ask for all the budgets of the understates to read through them to see if there were any signs of any resources that would be needed to increase security. And finally, this is going to hang on to all of us. If an accident occurs, this will of course be used for what it is worth, namely that we said they were missing these resources. I have no other option than to trust the documents that come from the department. So when the department says they're putting the safety in the high seat, they have to take that responsibility. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1118	I repeat that what emerged now had its background in the analyses carried out by the Railway Agency in relation to the report of the Åsta Commission. Of course, it's an event that provides the basis for even deeper reflection and analysis than before. It's actually part of the Commission's criticism of the security regime. We want to facilitate even better and more comprehensive analyses. We want to go into and think about the important, but difficult, balances: where are we going to put a lot of resource effort? How are we going to balance large resource efforts on the security side? It is clear that we must have all forms of transport with us at the same time. Of course, we want a maximum safe railway. However, we cannot accommodate ourselves in such a way that we ignore the major safety challenges we face in relation to road traffic. So we want to make it easier for those balances as well. It is my clear belief that our task and my task is to present to the Storting these analyses, these considerations, so that the Storing can be able to make decisions on the broadest possible basis. That is how I feel that the division of labour must be in order for the Storting to take final responsibility for both the appropriations that are given and those that are not given.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1125	As from others before me, my line and my questions will also focus on safety in the transport sector. I noticed that both in my post and now in the line change the line below the value of good security and good maintenance. Many people have taken the NSB and the problems that are there. My question is based on the road sector. The follow-up to road maintenance is great. Although road maintenance has been proposed for 2001, it will also increase next year. Bad roads are a major disadvantage to all those who are to travel on the roads. It's hard to get there, and there's going to be a lot of wear on the cars. That's the result. Furthermore, it is clear that there is a connection between road maintenance and accidents. In particular, winter maintenance may influence accident statistics, but also generally poor roads are a contributing cause of accidents. Does the Council of State see the gravity of the situation with the ever-increasing lag in road maintenance? And what are the thoughts and plans of the Council of State on solutions to this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1136	In the proposal submitted by the Government, there is a distortion towards operation and maintenance. I fully agree that it is very important in a security context. With regard to the maintenance side, it is said in many ways that poorly maintained roads become more road-hazardous afterwards. With regard to the operating side, it also has a high degree of safety to do. For example, a key chord can be used. be winter maintenance, which is essential to the level of safety. We will bet on a further twist in the future, and the Government has clearly shown this in its proposal to the National Transport Plan. But I recognise – and in a way challenge a little too – that this is a demanding exercise, because it is a lot easier to get both busts and monuments of investment projects than it is to get it for further strengthening of operations and maintenance. I want as much advice as possible, from the Government's side, to try to strengthen further operations and maintenance. To some extent it has to be done at the expense of investment projects, and I hope that humility in relation to this is also present in the Stortinget, precisely because you can't expect to get monuments in the form of investment projects to the same extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1147	Governments stressed the importance of safety throughout the transport sector. It has also shaped part of the debate. One of my co-representatives said that driving a railway is deadly, it's deadly to be on the road, and it's deadly in the rentals. It's actually a miracle that we're here today, as we're hovering in danger of life all the time. However, when discussing safety, it is important, first of all, to say that there is some risk in the transport sector, but that we in Norway in general actually have less risk than in many other countries. And we're going to improve that. Furthermore, there is a difference between the sectors, and that is always going to be in terms of risk. This means that you also have to think about how to strengthen those sectors that are at least at risk. There is no doubt, despite all that is said about the railways in Norway, that it is still the safest form of transport we have. My approach to the Council of State is as follows: it is possible to add the list as high as possible in rail transport, and to say that we should optimise investment in terms of railway safety so much that it is almost impossible to operate rail in Norway. Or to put it that way: we no longer invest in terms of the fact that more people are going to use the railway, either for passenger transport or on the freight side. This means the transfer of traffic from road to road. Does the Council of State agree that choosing such an approach would increase the risk in the transport sector, because the transition from road to road – or the lack of transition from road to road – generally increases the risk and therefore it is important to have a railway strategy in addition to safety measures, in order to bring the transport on the road, both on the freight and passenger transport side? And can the investment plan that lies here really strengthen the railway, or is it pussling what is now proposed by the Government and in the conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1156	I agree with the Myrvoll's problem, which is that you have to focus on all modes of transport at the same time, because otherwise you could end up doing something safe and almost useless, to get leaks into forms that are much more uncertain and that become more uncertain because you're just getting leaks there. It is extremely important that we should be able to balance this, both in the technical debate and not least in the political debate, which is under strong influence, among other things. from the media side. In our budget we put up for further investment on the track side, among other things. to ensure that we start developing new double tracks. We facilitate tilting on the track, we facilitate profile extensions in order to be able to get more freight on the track, and – as has also been achieved in the debate – we facilitate port-side activities, so that we can gradually get more transport by sea. We have also continued this in relation to the national transport plan, which is being dealt with in this house, and it is my call to ensure that we have the safety aspect, the overall aspect, as a guide when dealing with the transport sector in the future. I think that's the most important thing we can do to have the highest possible degree of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1165	So the line chord change is over. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Olaf Gedrem, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1170	Aviation Director Randi Flesland has stated that the economic situation of the Aviation Agency is very serious. Necessary upgrading and expansion of the 45 aerodromes owned and operated by the Swedish Aviation Agency must be iced or pushed out in time. Director Flesland also suggests that five to ten airports may be closed as a result of the financial situation of the Aviation Agency. This picture is very different from the production made by the Authority’s financial situation in the State budget for 2001 and in the National Transport Plan. It is the number of flights determining the revenue of the Aviation Agency. It is therefore important to maintain a high level of aviation activity so that there is a surplus to maintain and expand aerodromes. The right will come back to the organisation and framework conditions of the Aviation Agency when examining the national transport plan. Norwegian aviation is currently struggling with profitability, which politicians have a responsibility for through the charging policy. The charges charge aviation and put a damper on the level of activity. The right went against the introduction of the passenger fee in its time, and we want it removed. In our 2001 alternative budget, we take the first step and propose to reduce the tax from NOK 128 per person. the passenger, as proposed by the Labour Party Government, to NOK 116 per person; passenger. The majority in Stortinget will change the framework conditions for Sandefjord Airport Torp overnight and will require the airport for 12 million. kr for air navigation services performed. Sandefjord Airport is an AS, and the right is not against the airport paying for these services, but believes that this must be done gradually, as Sandefjord Airport was suggested, and so that the airport is given the opportunity to adapt to the new situation. As a result of the decision taken by the majority today, Sandefjord Airport Torp must postpone the necessary investments. It undermines the position of Sandefjord Airport in the future aviation system, but perhaps it is precisely the wish of the majority. Unfortunately, in 2000, we have experienced too many tragic accidents in the transport sector. It is therefore important to strengthen the focus on security across the sector. All the parties in Stortinget agree that security has first priority. It is then important that the Storting has information about the challenges facing us so that we can channel resources into the measures that increase traffic safety. An important measure to increase road safety is to develop and improve the quality of the infrastructure. For the road sector, this implies inter alia: expanding high-traffic roads to four areas of physical separation. E18 from Oslo to Kristiansand is one of the road sections that hurt needs such a standard. I am therefore pleased that the extension of the E18 through Westfold will continue in 2001, although these are the drivers who have to pay a large part of the valid. Well-developed ports have a major impact on the fishing industry. There are many good port projects waiting for funding to be realised. Therefore, the Right proposes to increase the allocation to fishing ports by 25 million. kr. It will strengthen settlement and value creation along the coast. Finally, some words about the Post. Last year, the entry was reduced by 93 pst in relation to its carry-over. to 85 pst., i.e. at 85 pst. of all A-mails, the consignee must be in her within the following day. Nevertheless, the Post has not been able to reach the goal. It's disappointing, and the Right assumes that the Post within the given frameworks will ensure that the measure is reached. The postal sector is undergoing liberalisation similar to developments in the telecommunications sector. Products and markets are merging to a large extent. The changes face major challenges and require the company to have sufficient freedom of action. It does not have the company with today's organisation, and the Right therefore proposes that the Storting should give the Post as Christmas present to the Poster's management: to be allowed to become a limited liability company.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1200	There is a broad consensus that the Post is facing major challenges, including economic ones, in order to adapt to a new time and market. There is disagreement about how the Post Office can best achieve these objectives. In this budgetary procedure, too, the right-hand side responds to the changes to transform the Item Norge into an AS. It is difficult to see why the Right and Advance Party will definitely convert the Post into an AS, unless they have to believe that it will automatically add more money to the Post. If it is that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that all future developments in the Post are in reducing the working class, then we disagree with it. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is a point in itself to respect the rights of employees, seafaring when an enterprise is in strong transition. Nor can these parties have gone past the fact that the Post has been and is still engaged in extensive work to restructure their shipping network, such as the shipping network. will result in a significant reduction in the number of employees in the enterprise. It is difficult to see what sufficient space for action an AS model can provide, which the BA model cannot provide. The majority are still of the opinion that the BA model, which the majority of the population chose for the Post, has enough room for action to develop the Post to a modern company. In its comments, the party strongly emphasises the need to provide the Post Norway BA with the necessary framework conditions, and, as they state, they ‘will, on this basis, reduce the appropriations for this purpose by 100 million. crowns in relation to the Government’s draft budget.’;» Where is the financial freedom? In the case of restructuring funds for the Post, we will verbally provide support to SV's comments. It is very unfortunate that the Post has been repudiating this money over several years, and then they disappear. There is no good expression of a reliable ownership. And it can be admitted: it's difficult for the long-term strategy in the Post. But unlike SV, the Workers' Party does not have the political culture that they promote proposals year after year, when we know in advance that there is no majority in the Chamber for the matter. That's the case with the 200 million. kr for restructuring in the Post Office. We have made proposals both in the ordinary budget and in the revised budget, but have not received a majority in favour. I'm sorry about that. But there won't be any more money. In this respect, we will come back to the Post's business in the course of the treatment of the Post's ownership message. The same will apply to government purchase calculations, including any question of the use of alternative calculation models. There has been a significant pressure in advance of and during the budgetary procedure in relation to the system of compensation for diesel charges for express buses. As many have experienced, these buses have gradually become important for the districts – this in areas that initially have poor collective services. For this reason, I would have preferred to see that the appropriations had been slightly higher. It is important to inspire people to travel collectively, for reasons of both environment and safety. Youth needs a good collective offer, and they don't now, except for a few places in the country. As you know, the majority of the Committee has taken the consequences and asked the Government to present a case for action. There is every reason to believe that price is the most important factor in achieving the goal of more people traveling collectively. Finally, I would like to say how positive it is that the Committee has now given the impression that the Coastal Centres must have the best time equipment. This will be of great importance, inter alia: for Brevik. In Grenlandsleia, the most dangerous goods are transported throughout the country. Finally, I have to express how disappointed I am that the Right in this round has chosen to exit from the remarks about the Eidanger Tunnel on the Westfold Railway. It's short-term to look at the problems that the railway is facing per. the date of issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1232	Few countries depend on international trade as much as Norway. With our distances and geographical location, transport costs become a greater factor for our business than for many of the countries we compete with. The policy must therefore be based on the fact that transport is national infrastructure and that it is one of the most concrete instruments that can be used in the construction of the country. It is necessary to plan and target awareness in this sector in order to reduce the number of accidents, achieve environmental benefits and increase our national value creation. The transport budget for 2001 is the last in this road map period. From 2002 onwards, the whole transport sector will be brought together in a single comprehensive document. It facilitates a good starting point for the national transport plan to focus on the importance of transport as national infrastructure, which must also be followed up in the annual budgets during the planning period. In the case of the road network, both the Progress Party and the Right make a point that they will spend significantly more money than the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. However, it is worth noting that this is financed through very unsolidarous cuts in other areas, such as aid, health pay schemes and agriculture. The fact that poor people in the world and sick workers in Norway have to pay for the road effort of the right-hand parties is totally unacceptable. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party know that these proposals would never have brought together a majority in the Grand Duchy, and that they would thus not have managed to raise this money, if they had entered into a majority formation. On the other hand, the last two budgetary comparisons have led to an increase in the budget for transport. Last year, 100 million came. kr extra because the working party prioritised this high. The same could be said about the central parties this year – they have also given priority to transport and have increased compared to what was proposed by the Government. In hardly any other country in the world, ferries play as much role as they do in Norway. Also in the case of the ferries, the next year is spent on more money on operations and new contraventions. Tomorrow's highways will look different than what we're used to. Norwegian shipyard and technology environments have developed completely new technologies that provide ferries that go twice as fast as today's. The yard Fjellstrand, which has the production of fast boats in Kvam and Kvinnherad municipalities, is ready to build the first ferries based on this technology. Extensive tests show that these ferries meet all safety requirements. The Directorate of Roads looks with interest at this concept. It is therefore appropriate for the contracting of the first quick ferries of this type to be carried out. The Committee has noted that it may be appropriate to apply the ferries to the route Tau-Stavanger in Rogaland. It must be emphasised that Fjellstrand AS has committed a great deal of capital in the development of this new ferry concept, and the yard depends on the possibility of contracting as quickly as possible. I assume that the Road Directorate is involved in this. So a few words about information and communication technology. There is reason to rejoice that the tempo has been strongly turned up within this area. There was a strong need for that. Telenors are listed on the stock exchange, as the Stortinget has adopted, and four UMTS licences have recently been granted – there are third generation mobile networks with very high transmission capacity. The size chose to allocate these licences in such a way as to ensure that operators would use money to build up the necessary infrastructure, instead of paying billions in an auction round and thus obtain a very expensive entrance ticket. We chose this solution because modern communication technology is also national infrastructure. It is precisely this position that must underpin the formulation of the overall transport policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1249	In the Ministry of Fisheries Strategy Plan 2001-2002, Values from the Sea – Norway’s future, the aim is to contribute to increased safety at sea and to contribute to the development of maritime transport in a competitive mode of transport. To achieve these objectives, I will pay particular attention to the following three areas of activity: maritime safety, maritime transport infrastructure and value creation and access to land. During the development of the infrastructure for maritime transport, the Ministry of Fisheries intends to follow up the national transport plan in order to make the competitive advantage of maritime transport visible and to support it. Good framework conditions shall be laid down for maritime transport and the interaction between maritime transport and other means of transport shall be facilitated. Ports have an important function here as a hub in the transport corridors and as part of combined transport. There is a need to assess the current system of priorities for the development of fishing ports in the light of developments in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors and in the transport sector. Work in the field of value creation and access to land is intended to ensure the availability and safe movement of seafarers along the coast and to facilitate the rational use of the coastal zone. A well-developed transport network, where the various transport services are seen in the context, is an important prerequisite for the creation of value added. In St. prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 is among others marking of the speedboat and ro-roship managers as a priority. It's proposed to grant 20 million. kr to new facilities within the fireworks service. This is an increase of 15 million. kr in relation to the 2000 budget. I note with satisfaction that the Committee is in line with this priority. There is a great need for the development of fishing ports, primarily the deepening and construction of molo in existing ports. Therefore, the port service has been proposed to increase by 49 million. kr in relation to the 2000 budget. I notice that the Transport Committee is asking for the start of dredging in parts of the ports of Melbu, within a cost framework of about 5 million. kr. Some deepening work has already been funded in excess of the Coastal Office's budget. These are now carried out privately. The further work in Melbu is a major project. The coast works now with Svartnes, Reine and Geilevica and Sirevåg, all major projects. The coastal works have been asked to complete the necessary planning for Melbu port in 2001, with a view to a later start-up. In the follow-up of St.meld. No 47 for 1998-99, On the evaluation of the unemployment and unemployment insurance system, the aim is to improve the efficiency of the unloading service while keeping the requirement of safety at a high level. Models for the alternative organisation of pilot services will be considered. It can be mentioned that the Coastal Directorate has asked Veritas to investigate remote discharge, i.e. unloading takes place from a road traffic centre on land. I will return to Stortinget with the results of this project when the final report is available. The coming year is the last year in relation to the planning framework drawn up in St.meld. No 46 for 1996-97, Ports and infrastructure for maritime transport. For the port service, 854 million were granted between 1998 and 2001. kr, which corresponds to the nominal design frame. For the fireworks service, the corresponding figure is 829.7 million. kr, corresponding to 99,6 pst. of the nominal design framework. We have thus achieved the objectives we set. Finally, let me stress that the Government’s commitment to the development of fishing ports will be an important factor in the development of the fisheries and aquaculture industry in Norway. A well-developed maritime infrastructure is an important prerequisite for important and efficient logistics solutions that can facilitate increased value creation in Coastal Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1272	I spent a lot of my time talking about maritime traffic and the opportunities that lie along the coast, just to emphasize that in the Christian People's Party we are very concerned about facilitating the conditions as best possible for traffic and not least the need that coastal industry has for good ports and fairways that work. Then I took up a special issue that I think more in the committee have noticed, and which I just want to raise further as a question to the Minister for Fisheries. This is the case with the priority of ports, and what it is now that actually governs this process with which ports are to be raised and given priority. A decision was taken only in the 1990s on a so-called central priority, and some states have not made their own priorities for many years. Suddenly we see that some states are prioritizing, some are not prioritizing, and some are getting involved in the last few things with a new priority list. And on top of this, there are suddenly projects for funding that are not on a priority list, at least not where they should be on their way. For this reason, my question to the Minister for Fisheries will be: What really is the case with regard to how fishing port facilities are to be prioritised and presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1281	It's probably true, as the representative Sahl says, that the priority of port facilities can appear to be something unsynchronized, and it's hard to see the big lines. What I feel is important is that we have to do in the future, and on which we have to have a good process in order to get good criteria, is that we get out ports that really help to trigger the value creation potential of the fishing industry. This must be a dynamic process. It must be that our priorities for which port projects are to be invested reflect the development that takes place in the industry. Changes in industry take place relatively quickly. At the same time, it is important that we capture the signals coming from the regional political authorities. They're closer to a whole lot of these problems than what we're doing, and they're well suited to doing these priorities. At the same time, there is a relatively long planning period for these projects, there is heavy equipment, and many of these projects take a very long time to implement. But we need to set up a central set of rules on how to prioritise these things, so that, in the future, more predictable processes can be developed for these priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1288	Let me first say that I think the Council of State is quite right in that you might have to look at the ports of fishing in the light of the rapid development that is taking place in the industry, linked to both farming and maritime industries. I think so, and I look forward to such a case coming. I think for a long time we may have been very traditional in terms of what history has decided, in terms of what we're doing. On my own, I have also said in my main post today that I am very happy that the achievement of the objective in the sector in which the Minister for Fisheries is located is good – it is good. It's nice. But I have one thing I thought I'd ask about, and that's whether the cut at the Rescue Company is a conscious choice, or what it is. The council said that he has security as his first priority, and I also expect that there is security at sea we are talking about. Then I am amazed that you go to such a cut. It is true that the centre started this last year, because they also helped cut the rescue company. I wonder if this cut off from the Workers' Party is just a follow-up to those who make the path of rotten tables, that is, the previous government, or whether it is actually a deliberate political stance on the Rescue Company. Does it mean that they have too much money, and is this a signal that the Workers' Party will in the long term be countering the rescue company's appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1295	The government has a conscious view of the Rescue Company. We have a consciously positive attitude toward the Rescue Company. Therefore, we allocate significant funds to the operation of the rescue company. In a total budgetary situation where we felt it was important to find room for security measures, type of marking of traffic controllers, etc., we concluded that progressing in part of these processes was so important that a marginal change in the total economy of the rescue company was justifiable. I have previously explained that based on the total amount of funds the Rescue Company normally has, it was cut that was proposed, not dramatic for the company. I know that the company has drawn a different picture of this, but I would nevertheless claim that what was proposed was relatively small in relation to the overall budget of the company. But this is not in any way an expression that we don't appreciate the work done there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1305	In today's debate there has been a lot of talk about security in the transport sector in general, and that will be my starting point in the line to the Council of State. It is important to pay attention to safety when it comes to maritime transport; good action is e.g. the lease marking and the further compilation of electronic maps. Another important instrument is the lustress service. Traffic along the Norwegian coast has been increasing, and therefore it is important to facilitate a pilot scheme that ensures the best possible level of safety. At the same time, attention must be paid to keeping costs down. I have noticed that it is in the budget proposal from the Ministry of Fisheries that it is working as a majority in the Committee in the St.Maltigation. No 47 for 1998-99, on the evaluation of the unemployment and unemployment benefit system, asked the Ministry to carry out, priority should be given to, and the Council of State now mentions that work has been started. He mentioned in particular that a remote-discharge test was started from the traffic centres. But there were also a number of other points that the department looked at, that's what's going on making the entire unloading system easier, and making the system so that a not all the time gets discussions about which vessel should have unloading, and who's not on it. I would like to ask the State Council to do exactly what is the time perspective for when the result of this work may come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1316	I agree with the representative, Mr Ringstad, that the Losing Service is important. I think that when we're going to evaluate the way it's worked, this has to be done relatively thoroughly. The system that works today has not worked for a very long time – it has been replaced by other criteria for unloading, which in earlier times were partly based on military considerations that are no longer present. Now we're doing this based on the considerations that you have for safe travel and the environment on the coast. I am not able to say exactly when we can get back to Stortinget with this, but I can confirm that we should, that the work should be thorough, and that we should have obtained a proper basis for experience before doing so. Among other things, we must: have some time so that we can see the remote discharge centres, to call it that, or the traffic control centres, in practical use, and the extent to which these systems are capable of ensuring safety in a way other than by unloading on board each vessel having such a requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1321	I have to repeat what I have said before, I am very pleased that the framework in terms of ports and fairways is fulfilled. It didn't look so bright early in this planning period, but it's fixed in the last two years. On the other hand, as far as the priority is concerned, we are in a little bit of unclean waters. The Council of State spoke in its reply to the representative Sahl about ‘a dynamic process’, about developments taking place, etc. However, some decisions need to be made, and it is important to note the premise they are taking, because what is happening now can become a very unfair treatment. There is a tendency in the committee to move out individual ports in order to give priority, and there will be an unfortunate development if it comes about, because we do not have the prerequisite to prioritize between the many hundred fishing ports that may be involved. We'd get a whole new job situation, and I don't think the level is right. It is therefore important that the Council of State can confirm that it is trying to respect the priorities of the counties. We have seen that strong players in the central political environment have received ports that were not prioritised in the counties, for example. Svartnes in Finnmark. In the Nordic region, we have also been given different priorities than the state has done. I think it's important to avoid the situation that the Storting should start prioritizing, that you have a neat process here. Finally, I want to ask a question about the City Tunnel. Now it is given approx. Thirty million. kr annually to the fairground. In the national transport plan, which we're going to have to deal with later, it's about increasing the amount to 60 million. kr, and my question to the Council of State is: if you go in for the construction of a ship's tunnel to 400 million. kr, what will be the significance of what is to be done in the case of fairways and other safety? It's a huge investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1330	As I said earlier, I agree that it is important that we have clean waters, to say that in coastal terms, as to how we should prioritise between fishing ports, and that we have good procedures to make this work. I don't think it's lucky that too many individual projects are drawn out in the process. And so it is that we have to try to take into account, as far as possible, the priorities that are being done at the state level. But at the same time, in those processes, there are some examples of things changing in the last few years, and then planning the use of funds and the use of technical equipment becomes quite difficult. In the case of Svartnes, there is no longer any good example of a fishing port that was not in line with the need. Fortunately, there is now an expansion of the fishing industry in this area that makes use of the not insignificant resources invested in that particular port. In the case of the City Tunnel, this is known as being under investigation. It will be completed in the spring, and only then will it be possible to decide whether this represents a reasonable investment in transport, whether this is a reasonable use of funds, and whether it makes sense that this should be given priority over other security measures. Until then, we just have to wait for this investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1339	Although the framework within the chapter dealing with ports and fairways is considered to be met, the need for action in this area is not sufficient. In this context, it is positive that we will have an increase in the budget next year, although it is far from the level proposed by the Right in its alternative budget. There are almost no comparable examples of government investment that can contribute to as much value creation as what we see documented in some projects here – it is enough to mention Lurøy, Melbu, Ballstad and Hope. I could have mentioned a series of projects that would immediately have triggered investments in hundreds of millions of classes. So I hope that the Council of State will follow up and contribute to the ministry's putting a little bit heavier emphasis on the input factor just when it comes to the chapter that includes ports and fairways. Then to the Losing Services. Let me just say that it's important that we have a solid, thorough and real unloading service in this country. It is important to take into account the need for recruitment, so that supply and demand are in place. But what is not necessary is that we continue with the galloping increase in tariffs that hit this service in Norwegian shipping, which has to pay a fee. We now get a price increase of 10 pst. from this year to next year. In less than six years, fees have increased by 72 pst. and it is far from the level set by the Storting as a desirable level in this sector. It is a mode of transport that we want to give political priority to, but which we make less competitive because of high pricing. What action does the Council of State plan to take to put an end to these uncontrolled price increases that this mode of transport is experiencing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1348	I have noticed, of course, that the Right would have prioritised fishing ports higher than what has been possible. However, I believe that the level chosen is what is appropriate in relation to the capacity that you have and in relation to the short-term needs that need to be triggered in order to provide a sensible infrastructure for fisheries. As I said before, there are relatively significant changes in the fishing industry, and it is important to consider how this will happen in the future before making investments beyond what it is put up to. As regards the question of recruiting a pilot, I also agree with the representative of Kristiansen that this is important to ensure. They perform an important function in terms of movement and safety in Norwegian waters. With regard to the questions raised regarding the increase in tariffs, we have adopted the principle that the tariffs should reflect the use of this service by the various groups. We believe that we have now come up with a system that is sensible and that will be long-term stable in relation to the use of these services. When this is the case that the total cost increases and we have made increases in the income estimates, it is because the traffic for some ships has been greater than what we had reason to assume.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1360	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1363	Let me immediately conclude that there is too little money in the 2001 transport budget. We who sit in this room represent the whole country, and we all need better roads and good communications. In Hedmark, we don't have many choices. We are totally dependent on good roads – not least for housing and business reasons. There is no comfort, but I say it anyway: not all those who criticize the Workers' Party for allowing too little for the transport sector have invested so much more in this sector. Verbally, it may seem, but we actually remember what happened in the 1998 and 1999 budgets. The parties that today are hoarding the highest gave priority to low taxes instead. In large parts of the country, it is not realistic to bet on trains or other public transport for people and businesses. The districts depend on the car as the main means of transport. The working party wants road investments to focus primarily on upgrading and maintaining existing road networks. The extension of the main road network shall continue and in parts of the country the national road network shall also be extended. In the interests of nutrition and housing, roads in the counties must be strengthened. That's why I was so happy that we found room in the budget agreement to give $10 million. NOK extra to complete, I say complete, a project on Row 3 south of Rena in Hedmark. Cargo checks on petrol should contribute to the highest possible level of gas prices in the whole country. That's why I welcome the fact that for the first time we're ever getting a reduction in the price of petrol and diesel. I am also very pleased that the express buses get some compensation for the diesel charge. The express bus is an important collective service for District Norway. This can be done, for example. not trains to Trysil, and the express bus is the best offer the thugs have to get to Oslo quickly. The Labour Party wants as many as possible to use public transport, but it requires that the price is not unreasonable. I am pleased with the majority comment that points out that NSB BA does not have to increase its ticket prices more than average price increases. There is no reasonableness in the fact that commuters, who depend entirely on the train, and who are the best customers of the train, have to pay up to 30 pst. more than today, as NSB has expired. I would also like to say a few words about aviation, because here too the budget is extremely tight. I have to admit, I'm very concerned about the rate of investment in our airports. I am pleased that the Minister for Transport has signaled that he shares these concerns. In the future, we need to ensure greater predictability in aviation. I am sure that during the treatment of the national transport plan we can come back to this. I want to use the last few minutes to correct a manifest misunderstanding, because I think it was an obvious misunderstanding when the representative Gerpe Hansen so categorically stated that the Right went against the high charges for aviation – for that is what it is now! But that's how the Right also cooperated with the Center Parties on the budget for a while back, and then it was so that the charges for aviation were increased. So it was May Britt Vihovde who was busy with the express buses in his post. I thought that was very nice. And in this regard, I'm actually going to be there and cheering with Kofoed-Larsen for this budget, because she said that thanks to the central parties, this would have been a better budget. Then I can return in these Christmas times: Yes, it got a little better thanks to the working party being so hard on to increase the compensation for the express buses. We're all happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1389	The President understands that we're all happy. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1394	I allow myself to focus on a special issue in the setting, specifically the chapter. 2450 and cap. 5450, Air Force. There is a new terminal building on Bardufoss. I am to the extent satisfied with what an overall committee has expressed in the setting, but what makes me take the word is an attempt to spread confusion and uncertainty about what is the status of cooperation, that is. co-operation, between the facilities of the Swedish Defence and Aviation Agency at Bardufoss. The last contribution in this way is found in the response from the Council of State to question 53, page 90 of the vote. The question also makes it apparent that there is a need for a clarification round. It is a direct error when the Council of State in its reply claims that the Defence Act states that the use of the military terminal must be restricted. Governments terminate their reply by saying: ‘The Air Transport Agency has taken an initiative against the Defence Agency in order to re-assess a reasonable solution to the problem’. A clearer expression that one still wants to take out the realization of the aircraft terminal at Bardufoss can be difficult to find. What's the status? Well, the military terminal is dimensioned to the needs, exercises and training of Defence and NATO. There are currently no changes in the needs of the defence or the presence in the inner Troms. There is already extensive cooperation between the Swedish Aviation Agency and the Defence Agency in the terminal, including: is Braathens today with all its operations established in the military terminal. There is therefore no more space for the Aviation Agency or SAS in this terminal. In other words, cooperation capacity is largely exploited. A full co-operation, i.e. cooperation, planned and approved by NATO. This plan presupposes that the Defence Terminal is part of a larger co-operation area, where the Defence’s current terminal is included as a departure terminal, while the Aviation Agency, for its part, builds access terminals and air carrier offices and security control facilities, etc. Living space and cafeteria are also common in the new building. The Co-operation Plans are approved by the Defence Agency and for over-targets developed by the Aviation Agency as of 7 January 2000. It is important that the Transport Committee is up-to-date with the proper status of Bardufoss Airport, not least when the Committee is going to consider the matter in concrete terms in the national transport plan just over Christmas. I know that the committee is familiar with the very bad conditions that are currently at the Bardufoss air terminal, both in terms of the conditions for the passengers and the employees. The Committee also knows that Bardufoss Airport has had a significant increase in traffic in the last two years. I therefore allow myself to ask the committee to have these arguments with me at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1414	Acceptable transport services are the most important places where people can live and where they can engage in business. In many districts, transport services are so poor that there can be no expected increase in business and housing. Many northern districts are at risk of race, poor road quality compared to today’s heavy traffic, poor ferry and route provision, high transit costs, etc. Last winter several viable settlements and large businesses were isolated for long periods because of race and racial danger. This leads to considerable losses for the enterprises and towns affected. Business owners at Senja have told me that even under normal conditions the cost of sending fish products from Berg and Torsken to Finnsnes is often the same as sending the same goods from Finnsnes to Oslo. When I talk about the business life of the districts, I don’t talk about small sausage stalls or small fish shops, but I’m talking, among other things. on many large processing companies that sell for several hundred million dollars per year. years. What I have mentioned here is just a small example of how difficult competition is for business in most districts. I have a feeling that it may be difficult for someone to see the relationship between business, housing and transportation, but this is closely related. For districts, transport services are becoming increasingly important. We see what kind of uplifting business gets when a district solves its problems with traffic barriers. The potential for increased value creation is enormous in the districts of this country. If we are to unlock this potential, we need to improve the provision of transport services. If we are willing to take a strong boost for the transportation in the districts, I am sure that business will flourish and turn away from the trend. Although this year's budgetary position offers some bets in the areas I have mentioned here, it is for puzzles from all parties in relation to the need that we can all register in the districts. Let's be so honest to say that no party has anything to boast about in this context. At the next crossroads, we need a strong trade promise that ensures that the value creation in the districts can be maintained and further developed. After all, it is this value creation that we will largely live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1435	It is not unusual to have so-called greetings at home in the debate on the budget for transport. I'm also going to deal with a local case, but it's based on the fact that it has a more principleal side, and from a more general point of view. The local case concerns Bru to Tautra in Nord-Trøndelag, and the more general view is that the transport sector also has a financial responsibility for remedying environmental sins. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement between the central parties and the Workers' Party constituted a majority in order to prevent an environmental scandal at Tautra. The agreement concluded that the State has a responsibility to find a solution regarding the opening of the road network and the construction of a bridge. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee on Transport agrees to join a team of local authorities and the environmental sector. The Tautra Nature Reserve was in danger of losing its international status as an important area for birds. Without action, Norway would be on an international environmental policy blacklist of countries that do not comply with their environmental obligations. The reason was that more than 20 years ago, the cheapest solution was to give way to an island community. You chose an approx. 2 kilometres long molo or pavement over a shallow fjord area that destroyed the flow of the fjord and made it easy for predators to get out on the island. The result was a severe deterioration in the quality of the nature reserve. For a long time, there has been a drag on who would pay for this environmental project – the road authorities, the environmental sector or the state as a weigher. This draw led to the Government giving up and rattling the entire project. As I said, I am pleased that the bulk of the population is now cutting through all the bureaucratic resistance and loss on the part of the Government and preventing the environmental scandal. In my view, correcting old environmental sins is also an economic responsibility for the road sector. This is as obvious a view and as obvious a consequence as that Gardermoen airport has to pay for pollution of the groundwater source below the aerodrome. In the case of Tautra, the Weetier, the County Municipality, cannot solve this alone, and therefore the State must participate. I am pleased that the Transport Committee stresses that it will finance the rest of the project through a split layer in 2002 and that the Government is required to come to the Stortinget with a plan for full funding of the project. I therefore take it for granted that construction starts can take place in the second half of 2001 and that this project will be completed. In many ways it is today a joyous day for the environment and for the Nord-Trøndelag. But we have to learn from the course of the matter. No sector interest should or may not discharge its environmental liability.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1454	New comfortable train sets, tilting train measures on the railway line, double tracks, crossing tracks, freight terminals and increased traffic volume show an offensive and in many ways successful railway bet. At the same time, however, major operational problems and tragic accidents have shown that both the Railway Agency and the NSB have major organisational and economic challenges. Here one must assume that both the NSB and the Railway Agency are cleaning up, taking the necessary steps and taking action. Nevertheless, the state, as a running authority, as a regulator and owner, must also take responsibility. In different batch programmes and plans, several batches have an expressed objective that more passenger and freight transport should move from road to road – without any doubt a proper objective. Even if it costs a lot of government money to improve the rail network, to buy new train equipment and to give new support to Wolfen routes, such an effort on the railways will undoubtedly be socio-economically correct. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the Committee on Transport assumes that the year’s train production will be continued in 2001 at normal rates. For as long as the government buys the most wretched services, it must be the right and duty of the Government and the Stortinge to have a sense of it – at least on these routes. Then you'll get a better follow up with the necessary permissions, and I'll interpret the setting so that it's added up to it. It alerts the closure of many train routes, including: on the Dovrebanen and Gjøvikbahnen, I hope therefore I am not being implemented. I don't disagree that one must prioritize the densely populated areas. But it can't happen by laying down the supply out in the districts like struggling with the declining population, where the train supply into the central area can be the only decision that people will or have the opportunity to live here. Therefore, the country must continue to purchase these enterprise-economic services. Another factor is that an offensive bet with repair of the roadway and better material can turn a bad circle with decline in passenger traffic and increasing undershoots to a good circle with increasing traffic and better profitability. The traffic base is also required to go down when the availability of trains and ticket services is reduced as much as there are many places, especially in the districts. When the NSB was converted to NSB BA and the Railway Agency, NSB BA was given great freedom of action. However, an inevitable requirement was that in all the conversions for efficiency, the provision and availability of ticket services and trains should not become worse. It's time for this requirement to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1469	The representatives Myrvoll and Kofoed-Larsen affected Rv 7 over Hardangervidda in a way in their speeches earlier today that have to be commented on. They both appear as eager trailers to get winter closure Rv 7 from the next winter, and they build their argumentation among others. on the notion that the traffic along row 7 represents a heavy load for the environment on Vidda, and especially for the wild. When the National Park of Hardangervidda was established early in the 1980s, there had already been car traffic across Hardangervidda for several decades. But it was not until the National Park was established that the high mountain nature became vulnerable. It was only when the wild rain took damage to car traffic. The hardenings have been harvested by nature on Hardangervidda for generations. Experienced hunters who know the wild reins, just shake their heads of the claims that Rv 7 is a burden to the wild reindeer. Then it has been a major problem that the population has recently been too large compared to what it is grazing resources for. In addition to this, in the winter months, only the goats need to cross row 7 in order to reach the winter pastures. But paradoxically, this has only recently become a problem. The hunters and locals who know the Hardanger range are unique in their conclusion. It is practically impossible to demonstrate that Rv 7 has any negative impact on the environment at large. I am pleased that the representatives Myrvoll and Kofoed-Larsen are busy with Hardanger. But Hardanger can't survive being a prospect card motif. National romance is no longer enough to ensure the growth of the Hardanger region, and Hardanger can no longer be a national exhibition window that we open when the fruit flowering begins and the bouquet is produced, and then in the autumn to shut it off pending the next fruit flowering. For Hardanger availability is as important in the winter half as it is in the summer half. My hope is that the representatives Myrvoll and Kofoed-Larsen will soon realize this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1480	It is good that the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties increased the public transport subsidy of 190 million. kr, and that most of this goes to central strokes and the largest cities, where the problems are greatest. It is also good that a majority in the Committee on Transport said no to the large increase in the price of train tickets proposed by the NSB. If we look at public transport in the Oslo area and the neighbouring states, we just have to realize that here we have a very big problem that we have to solve. Overfilled trains, where standing space is the only alternative after a long working day, fewer departures and trains that do not come and go when they are going to, do not invite more people to take the train, as we want, instead of driving a car. In addition, if you were to drastically increase the ticket prices, it would really be to pour gasoline on the fire that roars every day among those who travel with the NSB every day, and who know what this is all about. Population growth is increasing strongly in the municipalities around Oslo and neighbouring countries. Here are the housing prices so that people can afford to live, and live well. But the job is usually in Oslo. The number of commuters is increasing, and therefore the provision of public transport also needs to increase accordingly if we are to manage the major challenge and the problems we already have in this area and will only increase if nothing is done. Because there is no alternative to public transport in the central eastern region, the Oslo road network is already detonated and cannot withstand any further increase. So something has to happen, and it has to happen quickly. Oslopack 2 will be a good contribution. The Eastfold package is also among the issues we are dealing with today. E6 and E18 are two roads that have a traffic increase of the strongest in the country with an annual growth of between 5 and 6 pst. So it's a pleasure to see that in the case of E18, everything is going according to plans. The bombing stations are now under construction, and collection will start in the spring. In the case of E6, it has been a bit more complicated to start building the toll stations. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Transport has now ensured that the regulatory plans are implemented so that we can get started there as well. It is also important that the drivers who have to pay tolls see that something is happening, and that they get something left for what they pay. It is therefore appropriate that the tolling company be given the opportunity to raise a total loan for both roads, which will be more reasonable, a loan to the tolling stations as well as to the parcels of E6 and E18, according to what has been granted in the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1493	One might probably disagree with Folkvord in what he said in his post earlier, but one thing at least the representative should have: it was clear speech. If Folkvord had in addition put the last remaining freefootfalls in Hardanger in the pipeline, future would have been really secure for the district. There is no concealment that there would have been a somewhat higher framework for next year’s investments in the Railway Agency, especially in the context of the government’s announcement of a slightly higher level in the national transport plan for 2002-2011. Following the Asta accident and the report of the Government-appointed Audit Commission and of the Railway Agency's own Commission, the Railway Agency has drawn up an overview of the actions that can be carried out to make the Norwegian railway even safer. This, as far as I know, amounts to 400 million. kr. It may therefore be appropriate to consider at a later stage whether more money should be allocated to the Railway Agency in order to exclude some of these projects. But I would warn you that we are now going to operate on two types of railway-Norway projects, that we are getting one list of safety-related projects and one list of railway projects that are not safety-related projects. Prioritisation of actions other than those referred to as safety-related projects will be politically difficult. We can get into the situation that we're securing the rail 100 pst. and has no money to build up new railways to meet future challenges. The safest way to do this in order to have zero accident risks is to make sure that there is no railway and train traffic at all. So I want to warn you that we now stand up so that we don't have the money to invest in new railways for the future at all. So until the end of the day what you've been up to earlier today in terms of what the majority of people have said in relation to the tariffs to be regulated from 1 January. The right hand and the forward hand claimed that there was detailed management of the NSB. It's not at all. It can't be unreasonable that someone who buys services, whether it's from a traffic company or what it might be, for $1 billion, makes any assumptions about how to use the money. The right-hand side and the front-hand side are generally used for the use of tenders in the public transport sector. I would like to see the county councils that have put the bus transport on offer and not in the tender terms and conditions say something about the price development of the bus transport. Obviously, as political authorities, who pay for transport services, we have to say something about the framework conditions to be taken into account. But I will also agree that if there is no match between what we say in relation to the fact that the route offer is to be maintained and that the tariffs are to follow the price increase, we will have to be willing to add more money to the pot.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1502	I am not going to use my post again this year to talk about the 90 kilometers on the E6 in Northern Ireland that do not have a central strip due to the lack of road width, which is therefore a very dangerous traffic problem. I would rather highlight some positive aspects in the budget and in the submission to the national transport plan. The fact that the E6 above the Korgberg is finally to be converted is very positive. Similarly, I must say that I am very satisfied with the budgetary work on the Lofast link. A bottleneck like the Korg mountain, where traffic is running at a turbulent time during the winter, is not the business of the world of competition we have today. As far as Lofast is concerned, I expect the proposed budget setting to also provide for a start-up in the national transport plan when it is being dealt with. I also want to mention that it's been 80 million. kr extra for ferries, which are of major importance for the districts. There is also a strong need for upgrading roads between coast and inland in the Nordic region. If the farming industry is to develop at the rate and order of magnitude that we want, we in the Nordic region are totally dependent on a better infrastructure. Districts must be able to operate different types of business and not just data establishments. Natural resources are to be out and up in the shortest possible time, and then we need a better road standard, which, of course, requires significantly larger annual road allocations to Northern Ireland. Unfortunately, we cannot send the fish boxes through the Internet. Then it was the Post. There is no doubt that restructuring in the Post Office is necessary. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that there are doubts about the way in which the restructuring is carried out in relation to the employees. In my municipality, Fauske, a converted and very modern terminal was completed in the autumn of 1996 with approx. 80 jobs. The record spent 40-50 million. kr on the conversion. Now the post office is working for most of the Fauske Post Terminal business to be moved further north in the county, and new terminals to be built. Is there any profitability in this? Decisions on conversion were actually to be taken at the end of March 2001, but now the Christmas letter has come to the employees: 20–40 jobs become redundant when the letter sorting is to be moved to Harstad/Evenes as early as spring 2001. Svolvær, Sortland, Narvik and Lødningen also have to count on sorting stop, says a fast-working leadership group. This is an example of a very poor human resources policy. I expect the Council of State to follow up this case according to the municipal minister Sylvia Brustad said in his statement during the discussion of the municipal and regional reports last spring, that one should work across the ministerial boundaries with regard to the personnel consequences of a restructuring process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1522	By means of the budgetary agreement, the Centre Party was able to gain momentum in order to increase the scope of various transport projects by 400 million. kr. This is positive. The safety of the sea has been strengthened by more means to the Rescue Company and electronic navigational charts. There have been rooms to boost road investment by NOK 115 million and SEK 40 million. kr of these are earmarked to the racial security item. $80 million. more for ferry services, to avoid congestion and to improve discount schemes for those who travel a lot is important. The economy, which is established in districts where one depends on transporting goods by ferry, has a high cost associated with this. Reduced ferry prices are therefore good, both district and industrial policy. Continuous electronic ticketing is also a measure that will reduce the cost of ferries for those who travel a lot. It is an immediate measure that should be realised. The race protection post received the Christian People's Party for the first time in the autumn of 1994 in connection with the State budget for 1995. But time and time again, we've had to fight for this post, because it's been proposed multiple times. The working party got through to get it removed in ours and got multiple numbers together with Right and SV. Individual states have extra major challenges related to racial protection, and there are often high costs associated with this. Some places report acute needs as a result of racial and racial hazards. It's about security for many small and large. A separate racial protection item makes it easier to get funds for this purpose. I am therefore pleased that we have got multiple numbers to return this post, and that 20 million. kr will be set aside for racial protection purposes in Møre and Romesdal. I have a question for the Minister for Transport that I hope he will answer: Will the Minister for Transport now accept a separate post for racial protection, not only for next year, but also for 2002? Or will the Minister for Transport at first opportunity propose to remove it, so that we have to stand on the barricades again in order to get it back in place once again? I hope that the Council of State will respond to this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1531	I would also like to send a greeting home. It is positive that a group of caverns are behind the testing of a new concept for fast ferries in the Stavanger-Tau connection. SV now expects Stortinget to ensure that these ferries come into operation, preferably using environmentally friendly gas as a fuel. It's not always like that in this house that what's being said is being done. Unfortunately, we have too many examples of this, not least by most collective travellers. For how is it not? People can often hear politicians in the government and in the Stortinget talk that now there is to be better collective provision. But what do people get? Yes, travellers get an offer that means poorer ferries and fewer speedboat departures. On the Tau connection, the material is at the level I commuted there 25 years ago, and in all of the Ryflies, every year there is a struggle to not lose even more departures with the speedboat. A lot of the blame for a poorer offer is to be found here in this house. In its budget proposals, SV sees the strengthening of collective provision, including: I spend NOK 1 billion on the environmental tax on fuel for that. Moreover, we give more money to the county, so that politicians can bet even more locally if they want to. People are now entitled to what they hear is said: a better collective offering. With the budget of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, they will again hear the words about a better offer, but don't see anything special about it. It's totally unacceptable. It is positive that, among other things: Rogaland, on the initiative of Socialist Youth and other youth organisations, managed to drive through the Youth Card, and the Committee welcomed this. It has been a success, although it is negative for Rogaland's part that the free school pillow was lost with this card. SV is quite clear that the state needs to bring in and help with money to make the Youth Card better and cheaper. And let me finally come with a heart attack about prices of collective supply in general. It is totally wrong that in the world's richest countries, it should be so expensive to travel environmentally friendly. It is not right when it costs as much to travel to Sauda in Ryfylke by boat as by plane to Oslo. There is a lot to clean up in here and more than SV have to take responsibility for it. So my greeting was finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1548	We hope it was registered at home!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1551	Much of the debate is about greetings. In that way, perhaps as President of the Lion Hill MC Club, I should have sent a greeting to all those who have a motorcycle. But I'm going to try to relate to the general, but I'm also going to end with a local greeting. The debate today has been diverse, but it has also been a repetition of previous debates on transport. Many representatives have shown some joy, but at the same time they have expressed great concern about a number of neglected areas of transport. There are concerns that I share. It's a little remarkable when, if not the same representatives, at least the same parties express the same concern year after year, decade after decade, then one might expect that we had an infrastructure in this top-level country, at least at the level of the countries around us. So that's not the case, and I find that strange. At least there has been no particular impact on infrastructure in the districts. The only party that has shown the courage to prioritize the districts in terms of infrastructure and transport – especially road – is therefore the Progress Party. Even I am very pleased that, at least in the case of highways, the Nord-Trøndelag gets extra funds through the budget of the Progress Party, especially because the North-Trøndelag is the state with the longest continuous highway section with gravel cover, still. When we know what the business community is struggling with in the districts, including in the North Trøndelag, it is very important that we put some measures in place in this context. Here, the Progress Party will contribute to the organisation of a better infrastructure, which will benefit both the offshore, forestry and aquaculture industries in the North-Trøndelag. Many people have said the same thing, but it doesn't really make sense. The highways in the Nord-Trøndelag would have 20 million. kr extra with the budget of the Progress Party. E6 and Nord-Trøndelags combined with the rest of the country and southwards, to get delivered products, would get 270 million. kr on the main road network – very important areas for the supply of goods, as many of the representatives of other batches have expressed today, without giving rise to disbursements. I will conclude with the local greeting, and this is the comment of the Progress Party on page 43, which goes to Rv 72 at Garnes in the municipality of Verdal. In fact, the road continues through a farm tunnel, and heavy transport is regularly carried there with large timber barges etc. We've at least taken it by notem and we're going in to grant $7 million. kr to this project. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1569	I am not going to use this opportunity solely to send greetings home, but perhaps as much as trying to clear up a misunderstanding from a line change earlier today with the representative of the Central Party Jorunn Ringstad, where we were within one of my allegedly negative district profiles. However, without giving it any postal address, it is such that information was provided there that requires comment. After being in both rail and express bus bets, we ended up with a disagreement about the Youth Card Bet to the Right, where the representative of the Central Party indicated that the Right’s priority is only long-term through a proposal for 2002. This is not the whole and full truth. That's also the way that the right has bound up 113 million. kr in the current year’s budget, which is a clear priority of this theme, unlike the majority, which makes the funds available differently, which has a more airy majority opinion without concrete proposals, and which may also be voting against our 2002 proposal. With the Minister of Fisheries in the Chamber, I am in favour of the temptation to make a very small comment on the City Tunnel, which a few speakers have spoken about. There is reason to express a slight dissatisfaction that this project has not been completed for the treatment of the national transport plan. At least if you include more than one government in that criticism, it's justified. There is a lot of tension in this project, where knowledgeable people may expect a larger cross-section, higher costs and a significantly better benefit from the project work that comes. But that is the way to understand, although this pre-project is in the end, that it will not flow to the Transport Committee any information before the submission of the nomination to the National Transport Plan. If the Minister of Fisheries were to have the opportunity to comment on this, I would ask if it was possible to provide information in advance. If not, in what way will the Ministry of Fisheries come to Stortinget with this? Not only does the project have a high safety gain, a high value for business, but the project is also important in relation to the distortion of transport between land and sea. So to the extent that it's possible to ask questions in a three-minute post on the tamp of a transport debate, it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1576	Several contributions today have given some attention to the Lofast project, and the project was presented with fire and bram in the context of the budget agreement for a short time ago, which created almost unison flaglifting in Lofoten. What was recorded, however, was that the representatives of the same majority parties did not tell the protests about the text in small writing, as it stands with regard to reservations. It says that you're going to give $25 million. kr in the start-up phase, assuming that the project is prioritised in the national transport plan. And with the rate of appropriations, the rate of appropriations and the rate of appropriations shown by representatives from the same parties in recent years, one should have been able to say that from today's picture, given the level of priority that has so far been given to transport, there is really little to suggest that one will be able to prioritize the project. The right is proposing 50 million in its budget. kr for continuation of Lofast in 2001 – without any small font, without any reservations. I had expected that at least the center parties were able to support this position without reservation. So NSB naturally got a lot of attention here as well. One thing is that the Storting is eager to reintroduce the institution from here. Something else is that the majority say no to the proposed price increase. But you do not notice who is getting the invoice here. Well, it's the passengers who have to travel by car, boat, bus, etc., who don't have the NSB as an alternative, passengers that the same majority of parties are willing to make sure that prices increase. Every day for these are the closure of ferry routes, the closure of boat routes, we see airlines that are threatened by a more or less undiscovered charging increase in the direction of the National Assembly. This is the back of the medal, and the same passengers should have been exempted from being in and paying the new, coming bill, to which the Storting must come back. This is no contribution to increased traffic in and increased offer to District Norway. That's the exact opposite, it's these passengers who are left with the invoice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1583	The representative of Kristiansen is wrong about one point when it comes to this in small font. There is something in the Right's primary budget that has little writing, where they have much more money to spend than the limits to which we have been dealing when we have put forward our proposals. So it says something with a small font. At the same time, I would like to say that there is a lot of money in the Right Primary Budget. Compared to the Progress Party, which the Sandberg representative spoke about, it is actually so that the Right in its additions has a district profile – I have gone through where the money has been deposited – while the Progress Party has a clear centralist profile. So then I've arrested the Right, but at the same time I gave them praise. Then, of course, you can talk about where they cut. I must, of course, give a reply to the representative, Mr Folkvord. It was a rhetorical pleasure to listen to him. But at the same time, I have to say a little bit about the story. He talks about all the decades of traffic over Hardangervidda, but if I don't take a lot of mistakes, you started with the winter open road in 1985. So there's not that long history behind it. And that's not the way over the wide, but the winter open road that is especially a problem, because it's a barrier. Among other things, I do. read in the proposition from the department, on page 80 – from his own government – where they describe that barrier and among others. refers to the Directorate for Nature Management. So I haven't sucked everything out of my own imagination. Then I totally agree with him that Hardanger can't just live on fruit blossoms. He has a little more knowledge of that district than I have, but I've been there, even beyond that time, among other things. in the periods when there has been a lot of race. I've been to the public meeting, I've been and I've been in the racial areas, and I see that there's a lot that should be done. And when we treated Hardangerbrua and chirped it in its time, great promises were made to Hardanger. In this regard, I ask him to go through the budgetary positions after that time and see who has tried to follow up this with standard raising and racial protection in Hardanger, and then he should take a little settlement at the chamber with his own people – usually rhetorical and equally strongly expressed – because there he should tell them that they have not followed up what was the premises. Then I'd like to say to the representative Molvær Grimstad that I totally disagree. The racial protection item that has come is a mere gimmick. You move 105 million. NOK from normal road appropriations to that item, and then you add 40 million. kr. But the danger with such a post is that it gives illusions that there is no need to prioritize racial protection for the states in the frame – rather, they should receive this small post. That means that if you think like that in the counties, there'll be much less money for racial protection than it should be. A small racial protection post is a life-threatening way of thinking about it. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State does not confirm that the post will have an eternal life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1600	Most of the value creation in this country -- it's actually talking about 80 pst. – takes place along the coast from the Agderfylken to the West and further northwards. Also in the years that come, this is where the growth will be. This is despite the fact that it is precisely the coast that has the greatest competitive disadvantage in terms of distance from the market. In addition to the winding, winding roads with raspberry highway sections and gravel road bits, we also find night-bound highways, namely the ferries, which are at berth for the night. The left will halve the ferry tariffs for business to reduce the transport costs of district companies. By having been passed on for tax freedom and – as it appears – approx. 10 pst. reduction in discount cards, a step has been taken in the right direction. But in the Left's opinion, that's just the first step. It is also an important signal to take seriously the efforts made to promote racial protection, when one has used one’s own means of racial protection. There I disagree with Mr Myrvoll, who believes that this is dangerous and of little use. I believe, however, that the use of a separate post for this suggests that priority will be given to this from the central team, but of course there is no point in having a separate post if you do not find money to put in the post office. It has to be followed up. In connection with racial protection and that part of the road sector, I am also pleased that Mr. Møre and Mr. Romsdal have got their rightful share – 20 million. kr – of the additional means for which room was found in the agreement between the Working Party and the Centre. Coastal safety is a legitimately focused theme. That the life skates will receive 10 million. kr more in relation to the budget, is good. Similarly, it is very happy that work on updating digital charts can continue. Progress plans with completion in 2006 must be followed. Otherwise, the rescue helicopter rescue message, which should have already been provided, is requested again. The existing state councils, which are also responsible for transport and the coast, and safety along the coast, must be involved in and contribute to the Government to ensure that the notification is made as soon as possible. An important signal for oil, fisheries and coastal transport is to enter for a shorter response time – a maximum of 15 minutes. Much good is addressed, and important signals for coastal and rural areas are given through the budgetary agreement, but it is important that the transport sector — transport, which is, of course, such an important infrastructure for housing and value creation — is given greater attention in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1615	It was the post from the representative Ivar Kristiansen from the Right that made me take the word again. I noticed a certain wound from the representative Ivar Kristiansen because the Right has not been involved in putting money into the frame. The right has set at 50 million. NOK, but in the agreement, the centre and the Working Party are ready to find $25 million. kr within the framework. That means that there is real money that can be used. So let's do it in small font. There is nothing written in the budget proposal that is now on the table. Everything has been published, both for newspapers and for those who celebrate in Lofoten. What they were happy about was that it was set by a deposit of $25 million. kr. Everyone knows that if the job is not followed up in the national transport plan, it says that the money will be spent on the basket mountain. So the money will at least benefit Nordland. As I have seen our settlement partners, we have a joint intention to move Lofoten's mainland connection forward and provide it with continuous funding from 2002. So on to it with money. I am not sure if I understood the representative Ivar Kristiansen quite correctly, but as I perceived it, there had not been any real money for the ferries. It's 80 million. real kroner, which will reduce prices for those who are major consumers in the ferry sector. As far as I've registered by the media, most recently in the radio this morning, it's a great pleasure for the commuters who use the ferry, that these funds are now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1624	As far as racial protection is concerned, of course, the Government takes note of the majority’s handling in relation to the budget currently under consideration. We do, too, because we have a common goal – to prioritize racial protection, as well as in the future. We have many vulnerable sections in our country, and it requires both central and county priorities. Then it's like implementing these projects that gives people security. It's not the budgetary technique that does it. Racial protection is increasingly a matter of relatively large investment projects, which must be given priority over other investment projects. It can often be a difficult balance, but it has to happen anyway. From the government side, we will continue to give priority to racial protection, and at the same time we will assess how we can best do it, both in fact and technically.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1630	No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see below and page 130]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1644	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1299]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1657	There is now to be a vote in cases No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1664	During the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 6 and 7, by Inge Myrvoll on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 2, 3 and 4, by Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, from Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Right and Socialist Left Party. The President will first address the proposals outside the framework area. Proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘1. The selected trasé on the E6 Schirdingstad-Jakt Island in the South Trøndelag is rejected and further work is done on alternatives outside the Melhus centre.2. The proposed appropriations are used to remedy the situation of Gimse and Meeggen bru.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal on performance-driven financing of public transport, which increased grants beyond the current financing of the collective offer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1699	Proposal No. 5, from the Right and Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a system of youth cards in which the State contributes financially and returns to it in the State budget for 2002.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1713	Proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 4, from the Advance Party and the Right, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘1. Holders of a certificate authorised to drive a motor vehicle with a maximum of 8 passengers and a total mass of 3500-7500 kg may renew them without having their rights reduced.2. The renewal of certificates should be possible free of charge, as they have been issued with a certificate of 100 years’ rating.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The decision asks the Government to sell BaneTele after the company has been transformed into a limited liability company.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the Post Norway BA into a limited liability company.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e1741	It shall now be votted over the frame area 18. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, is first addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: "Frame area 18
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e5673	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-13.ana.ud1405e5843	There is no record.
