ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e29	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e34	I suggest Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e39	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected President of today’s meeting. The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e44	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of myself, Inge Myrvoll, Olav Gunnar Ballo, Øystein Djupedal and Ågot Valle, to take the issue of auctioning salmon and trout concessions out of the 2001 state budget. At the same time, I would like to suggest that it be dealt with under Section 28(c) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. be admitted to treatment directly in the Chamber at a later stage and not sent to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e51	The President has taken note of the request in relation to the Rules of Procedure, and the matter will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Erna Solberg, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e56	On behalf of Jan Petersen, Sverre J. Hoddevik and myself, I want to make suggestions to convert the House Bank into a bank for the first time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e61	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e82	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: – State Council Sylvia Brustad, – Guri Ingebrichtsen State Council – Councillor Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - It's registered. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e97	I'll be allowed to ask a question to the Social Minister. In recent years, we have seen a very worrying trend in increases in payments of disability pensions and disability benefits. Then what you get is a certain surprise when you read the VG from the last three days. Under the heading ‘Failure to sell’, it is suggested that a number of people from the Pakistani environment, in particular, buy long-term health messages, sick messages and disability benefits. Then my question becomes to the Minister of Social Affairs: what does the Minister of Social Affairs now want us to do so that we can clear up this issue, and that it can be cleared up in what appears in these articles?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e104	I want to say that I am as concerned as the representative about the issues that have arisen. The case mentioned in the paper has been reported. I cannot therefore go into the specific matter. As far as I am aware, this is the first time that there has been a suspicion of organised abuse of social security funds in Norway. We've already started the Rikstrøgde plant to go through what kind of control procedures you have. If we find failure in them, we'll do the measures that are necessary, so that that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e109	The Minister of Social Affairs says that this is the first time you discover this type of organized activity. Then I will refer to what the social security manager says: ‘Social security director Højbräten informs that the Rikstrygdeverket only received tips on the conditions three to four years ago.’ It's strange that you haven't been able to get beyond the fact that these things are coming on the field today, three to four years later. If this has been a position and an arrangement in the Pakistani environment – it also refers to Moroccans – I would say that I am starting to be very concerned, especially considering the amounts that will be involved, because it is pointed out that it is claimed from the Pakistani environment that the purchase and sale of disability pension can affect hundreds of people. Then is my question to the Minister of Social Affairs: Will the Minister of Social Affairs now have a review of these matters, so that we can rectify this and stop the payments to those people who are unjustly acquiring Norwegian tax money and delivering them in Pakistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e119	Since the case has been reported to the police, there is one way to get a review of the crime that must have happened. Of course, people who have been mistreated should not continue to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e124	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e127	Honored conductor! So, as the Social Minister has just said, the people who have bought disability and who are probably of Pakistani or Moroccan origin have committed a criminal and criminal act. Will the Minister of Social Affairs take this up with the Minister of Justice to see if it is possible to introduce a rule saying that those who may be of foreign origin and foreign nationals are automatically expelled from Norway if they are taken for this type of crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e132	The President assumes it was Mr. President. Simonsen turned to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e136	Regardless of nationality, these matters will be pursued. I don't think we're going to make a law that specifically targets foreign citizens beyond what we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e141	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e144	I have a question for the Social Minister. The government says in its budget proposal that it will pursue a restrictive drug policy and limit the total consumption of alcohol, but proposes to reduce the spirits tax by 17.5 pst. The Minister of Finance says that alcohol prevention measures are being taken at the same time, but the draft budget reduces the government’s allocation for both the prevention and treatment of drugrelated harm. How will the Council of State achieve a reduction in consumption and, as a result, a reduction in alcohol damage when it reduces the charges and thus the prices and, at the same time, will cut the budget both for prevention and treatment? Where, then, will the simultaneous alcohol prevention measures be put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e151	With regard to the price policy for alcohol, we have to admit that we live in a world of open borders. We see that the increase in alcohol consumption in Norway is strongly linked to smuggled spirits. What we want to achieve in reducing prices is that the turnover that is going on is going to take place legally within the framework of the Wine Monopoly, where we have strong control over who buys alcohol. As far as prevention is concerned, there has been a significant increase in the level of free resources available to municipalities, where prevention must take place. All our knowledge of prevention suggests that prevention must take place where people are located, namely in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e158	I agree that prevention in municipalities is a good idea. But the problem is just that about. $12 million. While the Minister for Social Affairs has moved the money to the local budget, he has disappeared from the budget. You can never compete with smuggling. But to get back to treatment, there are a number of idealistic organisations that are making a great effort for the drug users. Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland referred to these organisations at the National Labour Party meeting as being concerned with his special therapy or treatment method, often in competition with others. Is the Council of State correctly describing the voluntary efforts of those injured in drugs, and how does the Council of State feel that the situation had been for drug users in Norway without the efforts of voluntary organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e165	The treatment of drug users in Norway without voluntary intervention would have been significantly worse than it is. When reference is made to what Mr. Jagland said at the National Labour Party meeting, I just noticed that I understood him differently than the representative Mr. Naess has. What I heard was that all the care, both the volunteer and the public, is often governed by different ideologies and different thinking that are not science-based. I think maybe it's time we took a closer look at the whole care, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e172	There will be follow-up questions – Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e175	I'd like to follow up the representative Næss' question. If one assumes that the analysis of the need for lower prices would be correct, and one says that one should have more preventive measures, does the Council of State think that there will be more prevention of cutting down on the needs of the voluntary organisations carrying out preventive work? That's the first question. The second is, does the Minister of Social Affairs see it as problematic that there are many organizations that, on an idealistic basis, actually want to do a job here, so one can get the impression of? For what Ichland quite clearly said was that this often happened in competition with others, among other things. the public. Is it so that the Labour Party sees it as a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e182	The problem that the social minister sees is that we have a care for drug users who are quite difficult to get an overview of. That there's competition between different ideologies, between public and private, and between private, I think it's beyond doubt. That's why I'm saying that I want to get a better overview of this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e187	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e190	The Minister of Social Affairs began by saying that ‘we live in a world of open borders’, and that could be an interesting starting point for a debate on drugs and drugs. But I'll leave it now. I just want to show that the social-democratic government in Sweden has considerably increased the prevention budgets when the prices of alcohol have been lowered. I think it's strange that not the same thing has happened here, because by lowering the prices now, the availability becomes larger. The drug directorate has been reorganised and the funds were to be used actively. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs to explain a little bit about how they have been channelled, because this is not just going to happen through free resources to the municipalities. I also ask that we say a little about how much of the free resources the government has calculated is going to go to prevention in the municipalities, because I think that when we get to the sum of free resources and all the tasks to be solved within that post, it is a loophole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e198	When it comes to explaining exactly how the funds are being taken out to the various centres of expertise to which the Directorate of Drugs is now decentralised, I would like to ask for permission to come back to that in a presentation to the representative, since it requires a significant degree of accuracy that I do not have without having the opportunity to prepare. In fact, as regards how the funds are transferred to the municipalities, some of the funds that have been linked and earmarked for drug prevention are still going to the municipalities, but now without designation. I am of the clear opinion that the municipalities are able to take the responsibility they have in the law to follow up prevention, and they are better able to do so by transferring the funds in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e205	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e208	I'm going to be allowed to ask a question to the Social Minister – and I'm not going to ask about her dubious political past that we've been getting started in the last few days, but about something that concerns a lot of people. Victims and old-age pensioners have specific costs related to the fact that they are getting older and their disability. It has to do with the extra costs of sickness, in the case of excesses, in the case of transport, etc. In our tax system, we have a special deduction for disability pensioners and old-age pensioners to compensate for this. The Government does not wish to adjust this special deduction in the budget proposal to be examined by Stortinget, thus saving 85 million. kr to this group. What is the social minister's reason for this being a good policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e215	With regard to the group we are now talking about, age pensioners and disability pensioners who have special diseases, the most important thing for me is that we actually had a social security settlement where this year there was agreement between the organizations and the state. The fact that they could not find the cover to also raise the special discount must be seen more in light of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e220	So it's a fact that this profession has had a pension development that is similar to what we've been given, so it's supposed to be the argument that you shouldn't have to adjust the special deduction to compensate for the costs that have also increased. However, I see this as a continuation of what I am assuming is the long-term aim of the Workers' Party, namely to wind up the special deduction for disabled and old-age pensioners, for which part of the Workers' Party has previously been called upon to do so. My final question to the Council of State is: does this Minister of Social Affairs think that this scheme should be phased out, or should it continue to be phased out, as the Council of State now argues? Or should it follow the general development of costs and wages for the 800 000-900 000 concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e227	As stated in the State budget, I have not suggested that this scheme should be abolished. When I said in my first answer that I didn't find cover for it, it's also because especially for this group it's interesting that we have a budget balance that is such that interest doesn't go up. They will be significantly more affected by it, and then it is important to me that we conduct a clean policy here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e232	That was an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e237	There will be follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e240	I think the Social Minister is wrong if she thinks that the minimum pensioners or pensioners are at all affected by the rise in interest rates. But it wasn't my question, I had a follow-up question, but to the Minister of State on the same theme, namely the fact, what has been the policy in recent years – and where the Right and the Workers' Party have actually agreed – that when it comes to schemes for the elderly, the disabled and pensioners, one should be focused on getting there. And the most targeted scheme for those who have the most difficulty is the housing support scheme. In that housing aid scheme, the Government removes the supplement as the minimum pensioner plus 30 pst. The pensioners, i.e. the pensioners and disabled people who have less than NOK 115,000, get to cope with their electricity costs, while the government increases the electricity charge – and rumors are that there will be a settlement where you increase the electricity charge even more towards households. Can the Minister of State explain this in the perspective of having targeted assistance for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e247	I think it's important that we have a fair and focused policy towards everyone, no matter what age you are at. Some of the problem of housing shock, as it has worked up to now, is that for example. families with children and single dependants with very high living costs, e.g. in this city, has not been able to benefit from the housing support scheme. Therefore, the Government has proposed that it be transformed in several ways. One is that we increase the bolt toxin by NOK 5000 up to NOK 55,000. This means that it is possible to get more from housing, but we demand something I believe is of course, namely that you should have high housing costs and low income to get something. This means that, in addition to older people, how many of them will still receive housing support, we also open up lonely caregivers and high-cost families with children now receiving housing support. I think that's actually an improvement on that scheme. Otherwise, this is now under budgetary procedure in this House. Besides that, I do not want to make any further comments about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e252	Jan Petersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e256	It was the Social Minister's response that called for follow-up. Ansgar Gabrielsen asked questions about the future of the special deduction. The Minister for Social Affairs answered that by talking about next year's budget. But the question was, what is the social minister's objective with the special deduction? Then I repeat the question, what is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e263	The purpose of the special deduction is to help reduce the costs of sick pensioners, whether they are disability or old-age pensioners. As I said, I have not shown in the budget that I want to remove the scheme, nor in any other way. So it was just to say that where I've taken this up, at least I haven't shown that we're going to remove the special deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e268	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e271	The Social Minister showed in his first reply here today, among other things. for social security provision in May. Then I just have to wonder, because over a number of years, both the workers' party governments and the outgoing central government have subjugated the basic amount of popularism in relation to the wage trend elsewhere in society. In addition, when you are going to hit the special deduction, my question to the social minister is: is it the conscious line of the Workers' Party that you have been able to see over a number of years, to prevent the pensioners in this country from having the same growth in purchasing power as we do?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e276	When we chose not to underregulate, but to overregulate G in ours, it was just to avoid the evolution that Nesvik describes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e281	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e284	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Under the heading ‘Will block inside ‘asyl snuggles’, the Daily Newspaper yesterday tells us that Norwegian People’s Aid will have a system in which we can remove asylum seekers who do not behave the way people should do the most. It is said that these ‘should be able to be apprehended by the police and be kept until their application has been completed. There should be arrangements to keep them away from society’, etc. The party of progress makes a suggestion in ours that that would be the case. The majority in the committee said it wasn't necessary, because one had enough rules. My question to the Council of State will then be: Is the Council of State in agreement with the Norwegian People's Aid Party and the Progress Party, or is the Council of State in the view of the majority of the Judicial Committee from June?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e293	I take very seriously the situation we now see around parts of the country at some reception, where a minority of our asylum seekers unfortunately commit criminal acts – some of them also very serious. It must be clear that this kind of thing is not to be accepted. Therefore, from 1 July of this year, the government has introduced what we call rapid procedures for dealing with this kind of issue. In that case, if one is intentional, accused or convicted of a criminal act, then one must be subject to that procedure. One is taken out of the ordinary course, and the matter should be dealt with within a very few weeks. Then, if appropriate, he shall be sent out as soon as possible. I think we have to do it that way, so that not a small minority will be allowed to destroy for the great majority who come here to the country, who need help, and who act in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e298	We agree that a small minority should not be destroyed by a large majority, but it must be possible to take away the freedom until the application has been dealt with, as Norwegian People's Aid says here. Then my follow-up question becomes: if the Council of State does not close up with its rapid court, then the Council of State will come back with proposals for the Stortinget in line with what the Norwegian People's Aid wants, and in line with what the Advance Party is doing, and which was treated in June here in the Stortinget, so we can do it so that not a minority destroys a large number of people who are here, and in that way meet the requirements, such as: Norsk Folkehelp has, who drives some asylum recipients, that these people are being kept away from society otherwise? Will the Council of State come back to Stortinget with a bill that allows us to arrest them and keep them away from society?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e303	I want to do everything in my power for us to succeed in dealing with that kind of matter as quickly as possible, and thus also get sent out those who are obviously going out of the country, out as quickly as possible. I also had talks with the Minister of Justice yesterday and today. We're going to sit down right away to see if routines, practices, law and regulation work properly, or if they don't. I think there are things that might be even better done. Then we'll come back with that. But we're going to go through this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e308	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e312	I would first like to commend the Council of State for having acted actively in implementing the rapid procedures. I also think it's very positive that she expresses that you want to look at how things work. It's often that it doesn't always work as one would wish. So I give credit for that initiative. I just want a confirmation that when the Council of State reviews this, fundamental considerations of legal certainty will be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e317	I can say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e322	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e325	In today's Newspaper, Waging Representative Astrid Marie Nistad of the Workers' Party says the following: ‘If an asylum seeker is targeted for more criminal matters and the police believe that they are on safe evidence, it should be possible for the applicant to be expelled before the application has been completed.’ Is the Council of State in agreement with its representative of the grubbing-up in this respect, and the Council of State agrees that the Government has so far been too weak, among other things. by accepting proposals from the Progress Party that would have effectively – had they been adopted – prevented false asylum seekers from committing crimes based in a Norwegian asylum recipient? How many times do we still have to witness that the government is talking, talking, talking, talking? When can we specifically expect action in the form of directives to police and asylum seekers to ensure that people there is great reason to suspect crime are stopped from doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e335	This government does more than talk. We've acted, and we're going to act, and I hope so, too, Carl I. Hagen has noticed through the answer I've given in this questioning. I believe that the government in this case has also not been weak in relation to what we have said, and what we have actually done, and we are going to follow it further up. When it comes to the question of sending people who are targeted out of the country before they have dealt with the matter, it would be a violation of the law of alienation that the Stortinget has passed, in which case it would be a violation of international rules and conventions that we have signed up to. But I believe that these kinds of cases must be dealt with as quickly as possible – within a few weeks. I would also like to assess whether those people who have committed serious criminal acts should also be taken care of in a place, instead of just remaining in reception, as the situation is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e342	We continue with main questions – Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e345	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. In these days, people elected by different parties in municipalities and county councils are despairing and looking at how to reduce what you have today to get your expenses and income together. It affects children and young people, it is about schooling, cutting leisure, cutting back on groups in need of support and other follow-up, overcoming the supply of elderly people, overcoming after-care measures for drug addicts, etc. Does the council get the same messages that the municipal committee receives, and the same messages that the media is now writing about, and does it take it inward? Is it as satisfied with the Government's commitment to the municipal sector in 2001 as it was six weeks ago when the budget was presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e352	Yes, I am proud of the municipality scheme that the government has proposed for next year, which means approximately. NOK 5 billion more in relation to what was said in relation to the municipal economic proposition. I am also proud that both for the current year and for the next year we have entered into compensation in relation to the new working time agreement for teachers and in relation to the next year's holiday with NOK 3.4 billion. This is a significant increase for the local government sector. So I know that the situation in several municipalities is difficult. That is exactly why it was important to have a proper municipal arrangement in place. I am also very aware that we are not able to solve all the challenges in all municipalities from one year to another. But I think this is a very important contribution in the absolutely right direction. And then I know that right now there's negotiations going on, and I can't say anything more than what I'm saying now, in relation to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e359	It is interesting that through negotiations the municipal minister wants to improve the situation in the municipal sector. In the Central Party, we believe that there is now evidence both that there is a need for funds in 2001 and that there is a need to take a debt situation more seriously in the municipalities. It is worse than we were aware of, it has been shown jointly by the Municipal Councils of Central and Governments. The centre party wants to take a co-responsibility there. Now the Labour Party has had its national meeting since the last time. I expect that the local government minister also received messages from spokespersons in a private party who not only need a step in the right direction, but who need revenue to go beyond the statutory expenditure next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e366	Because right now there are negotiations going on on on this too, I don't want to make any further comments here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e371	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e375	I have an additional question for the Social Minister in connection with the issue raised by Meltveit Kleppa. Meltveit Kleppa stated that the government's proposal for a budget has also cut back on the post-protection offer to the municipalities. I noticed that the Minister of Social Affairs said that she had confidence that the municipalities would be able to follow the various measures properly. However, it is reasonable to ask how it is possible to cut the appropriations to ensure the offers. We've seen excesses increase by 4.5 p.m., while, for example, reducing alcohol taxes. And more politicians here in Stortinget, I think, have been notified, among other things. from Stavanger, where because of a cut in the post-protection offer, there is talk of making such an offer because you will not be able to continue it. This applies, inter alia, to: treatment of methadone users. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs: how does the Minister of Social Affairs think that the municipalities should be able to follow up on post-protection when writing in the budget that earmarked grants for municipal projects in the first line service and for post-protection measures in the municipalities are cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e382	I have answered this question earlier today. So I have increased the free resources for the municipalities, so they can have the opportunity to make some choices. As far as the medically assisted treatment measures in this country are concerned, as far as I am aware, it is not cut in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e389	Jorunn Ringstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e392	In reply to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's main question, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs said that she was proud of the municipal arrangement for the next year – proud because it was a few dollars more than it had been. Does the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs not see that the sum to be consulted by the municipalities must be proportionate to the tasks to be resolved? Is the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs proud of what is now happening in the municipalities, the closure of cross-border schools, the disappearance of leisure provision for young people, and the disappearance of a number of other welfare measures due to the plural economic frameworks of municipalities? Is the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs proud of what is happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e399	What I have said is that there is a significant rise in the local government sector for next year, and the amounts are well known to the representative. Nor have I ever underestimated the fact that I know that many municipalities are in a difficult situation. That's why it was important not only to get a few dollars in place, we actually increased by a lot more compared to what we said in ours when we dealt with the municipal scheme for next year. 5 billion dollars plus is a lot of money. A compensation of NOK 3.4 billion plus teachers and vacations is also a lot of money. Finally, I would like to say, it is the first time in ten years that a government has entered into compensation in relation to a settlement in terms of negotiations. The last time was in 1990. Then the government went in with 80 million. kr. This government has for the current year gone in with NOK 1.4 billion for teachers and vacations, and we propose for the next year NOK 3.4 billion in addition to the NOK 5 billion. I'm actually proud of that. As I said before, I know that negotiations are now under way. I therefore do not want to comment further than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e408	The President has some doubts as to whether we are now going to a budgetary procedure, but nevertheless takes the chance of getting to Mr. Kvassheim for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e411	The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is proud that there is full compensation for teacher settlement. I assume that all the staging representatives now get a lot of letters from municipalities that believe that this is not a full compensation. Among those who write to us and ask for help are municipalities with labor party rule. Will the Council of State contribute to a review of this with a view to clarifying the extent to which there is a difference between the promise of full compensation and what is actually included in the budget and which now leads to a reduction in school provision and childcare provision in many municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e418	I have never said that there is full compensation for the entire teaching arrangement. What I've said is that there is full compensation in relation to the working time contract, kroner for kroner. I remind you again that this is the first time in ten years that a government has gone into anything. So we've proposed NOK 3.4 billion for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e425	Johan J. Jakobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e428	I am a little surprised that the Council of State does not take the strong criticism from Kommune-Norway inwards. I assume that the Council of State receives the same reactions as we do in the Center Party. The government has said that it places emphasis on distribution policy. In my opinion, this definitely does not apply to the municipal sector. Then I think about the fact that the Workers' Party together with the Right has decided that the so-called Rattsø compensation should be terminated. I would like to stress that the decision taken does not relate to next year's budget. Now that the Council of State has been shown to document the dramatic consequences of this – I can mention that for the municipality of Røyrvik in the North-Trøndelag, it will not be enough to put down the municipal administration to compensate for this loss once the scheme has been implemented – when one has thus received these dramatic figures on the table and one sees the distorted distribution, not least in the district municipalities, can the Workers' Party envisage reviewing the decision taken, namely that the so-called Rattsø compensation should be phased out?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e437	Of course, I am talking to rapporteurs, rapporteurs from all parties, and of course I am talking to the central federation of the Communes. I know that there are different messages about the situation in Kommune-Norway, and I also know very well that it's very different. I have never tried to give the impression that in most municipalities there is a very good situation. I believe, however, that what is proposed for next year is a significant boost, and certainly a step in the right direction. So I think we all have to admit that we're not going to be able to solve all the challenges that the local government sector is facing in a single year. With regard to what has been proposed since 2002, it is important for me to say that the main explanation of differences in service provision between municipalities is that they are due to the income system. Then the question is, do we want to do something about it, or do we not want to do anything about it? Of course, this does not conflict with the fact that, in the years to come, we obviously have to give even more money to the local government sector in order to achieve the goals that Stortinget has also agreed to. I believe that if we want to get a fairer distribution between municipalities, it is important that we do something about the income system. So it has to apply from 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e445	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e448	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Once again, there has been an alarm about the legal protection of minor solitary asylum seekers. They come to the country with many kinds of trauma. Many of them have had war experiences. Just coming to a country without safe adults to deal with is a trauma in itself. SV has repeatedly called for real help to these young people and young people. We have requested that child protection should come in a much better way than they do today, and that child protection should actually be notified whenever a minor asylum seeker arrives at a reception. We know that the receptions do not have the competence to help these children at all. I know that Redd Barna has called for asylum reception for these kids to be converted into child protection institutions. My question is, what will the Minister for Children and Family now do to ensure that these kids get proper and good help?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e459	First, I would like to say that the problem raised by Mr Ågot Valle is taking this government very seriously. We are concerned that we should have a very targeted reinforced effort against this group, and I will refer to the work done by the Minister of Local Affairs. She is responsible for this group, and within a very short time, there will be a separate big message about this. With regard to the specific question and the proposal from the Red Cross to re-establish the receptions of child protection institutions, I personally believe that there is no good solution. I believe that we first need to facilitate the integration of these children into the municipalities. That'll be the right thing and the best thing for these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e466	I thank you for your answer and wait for that follow-up. I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Several of these children who have not received help have simply disappeared from the reception. Among other things, I have read that two Russian boys have disappeared from an asylum reception in Moelv. One doesn't have to have so much imagination to realize that these are an easy trade for people who want to recruit them for some kind of crime. I also read with great concern that if young people who do not receive asylum are absent for more than two to three days, they will be deleted from the system. And then I ask the Council of State, does that happen? Is it possible to take the situation of these children so easily? Should it not be a system that captures them when they disappear from the asylum recipients? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e475	The President will remind the representative of the speaking time limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e478	I am also concerned about the situation of single minors in reception, and we are going to come back with a number of suggestions to make the situation better when we get to the Stortinget with the message during December. When it comes to the question of those who disappear from reception, it's very difficult, because it's not that we can shut the door and lock people in the receptions, people have freedom of movement. It's very difficult to control anyone who disappears, for different reasons and with different motives, it's also part of history. But I want to take an initiative, especially in the case of the children, to go through what happens to them and the routines in relation to it, so to that I can answer a yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e485	There will be follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e488	The question of single asylum seekers has been raised several times in the ordinary Questionnaire, among others. linked to the failure of the protection and support functions at all. In this respect, the Right has also written a letter to the Council of State asking that we do not wait for the announced notification of enlargement to find action, because we are now in the middle of a budgetary process in which the framework for the next year is being laid – and what should this possibly be included under? We have asked the Council of State to lighten the veil in relation to what measures it intends to promote in December, so that some of these may be incorporated by the Stortning within the budget, so that there is no need to wait at least half a year before measures that may require financial outlays come. My question to the Council of State is whether she is willing to provide the Storting with a working basis for the next few weeks to do something with lone asylum seekers by coming up with some of the measures that have been announced to launch in the Stortinget in December. If we are to have the interests of the lone asylum seekers at the top, this should come to an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e495	As the representative Solberg himself said, she has written a letter, and that letter is to be answered by Solberg's representative in a proper way. What I think is the most important thing now in the case of lone minors, is to get the roughly 500 children and young people who are now in reception, based on reception and living in the municipalities as soon as possible. The government, with which the representative is well known, has proposed to increase the integration grant from NOK 300000 to NOK 365 000 per year. person for next year. I hope there'll be a majority for that, and I think it's a very important contribution. What the government has also signaled is that we want to propose a new housing model that requires municipalities to agree on the distribution of the number of refugees each year in the municipalities. In sum, I think this could lead to us having them settled faster than now, and I would appeal to all the municipalities around the country: if they had only received one child each, one young person each, before Christmas, we would have been able to settle for the 50 that are now in reception. It would have been the best Christmas present I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e502	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e505	I have an additional question for the Minister of Children and Family. This is also going to be a topic in the ordinary question hour, I have a question there as well. A talk here about these children who are on asylum reception, and that Redd Barna has filed it as a matter of concern. Child protection law applies to all children in Norway, and this is a child without parents, they may come in with the siblings all the way down to the age of four. They live in asylum facilities, where they are not caught today. Will the Minister for Child and Family Affairs, who is responsible for child protection, come up with concrete measures to ensure that child protection goes in and see what help these children need? We can't wait for a big message that comes in December, which after a long time is going to have cancer. This is a problem that has been raised with even spaces. Would the Minister for Child and Family Affairs do anything about this immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e513	There is no doubt that the situation of children, regardless of their background or the way they come here to the country, is a matter for the Government and for me as the Council of State. Now the situation of these children lies with the municipal minister, and I can assure the representative that the municipal minister and the Minister for Children and Family Affairs have excellent cooperation, and we have worked very closely in relation to the announcement that is now being made. I am asking for an understanding of the answer given by the Minister of State and that we are concerned that the Stortinget should be presented in an appropriate manner. I would also like to support the call that the municipal minister has just made, that if all the municipalities accept one of these children, we have actually done a lot and perhaps solved the situation. I don't think the solution for many of these children is a child protection institution. What these children need is safe and good care and not that we should necessarily keep them in an institution by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e520	It will be a follow-up question to - Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e523	I have an additional question for the Minister of Local Affairs on the Government's refugee and asylum policy. In an entry in the NRK Nordnyt a few days ago you could hear about a family in Pasvik, Finland. The man had recently become a widower and had a desire to be visited by children’s grandparents from Sri Lanka. Then he gets a response from the Foreign Affairs Directorate that it is not possible if the grandparents get together. One must travel first, and travel back before the other will be able to travel. It is therefore no longer possible in Norway to have a visit by their grandparents for some who are legally resident in Norway and have received a permanent residence permit because it is believed that if they come to Norway, they may not be able to return. I would like to ask the Minister of Local Councillor whether she agrees with the kind of policy towards people from other countries who are legally only going to visit Norway and then to go back, or whether, on the contrary, the Minister of Local Council will address this and get something done about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e532	I can't comment on that single thing. It is clear that it is not that it is impossible to have their relatives from other countries, but a specific assessment must be made on a case-by-case basis, on a case-by-case basis. I am asking for an understanding that I cannot comment on this particular matter here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e537	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e540	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. We have just had a round of people we don't want to have in Norway, even if we're going to follow legal rules when we clean it up. My question is about people we should want. It is the way in the Norwegian economy today that we have many welfare tasks that we cannot solve. We know that there are a lot of value creation tasks we can't solve. In a previous question-time question where the council and I had a round that went on students during education, I had the impression that the government was prepared to look at an embellishment of the rules. Let us assume that we set Norway's record of getting the most out of work, that employers set Norway's record of recruiting those who are not top efficient. My claim is that we still want workers. My question is: Will the government meet the Left and the other central parties and seek cooperation on an orderly form of labour immigration, where we take in labour that we know we need in the care professions, in key value creation professions such as the IT industry and in other areas, and deal with this in such a way that we can get this subsidy here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e551	The answer is yes. The government is set to go through the immigration legislation carefully. I think the representative of Dørum is right in saying that if we get those who are unemployed today, at work, if we get a reduction in the number of disabled people, if we get those who work part-time, to work full time – all the things that I think most people agree on are important – then in some professions there will probably still be a need to gain more labour from other countries. For this reason, the Government has set up a working group that is now going through this, to see if changes should be made to the legislation, in terms of its practice, or procedures. We are working on that matter as soon as it is possible at all, and we are prepared to return to Stortinget in connection with it within a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e558	I note that in these questions the Government has chosen a line closer to the Left and the other central parties than the Advance Party. I think that's a pleasure. I hope the government will come back with a scheme that's conjuctual, that's socially real, and that allows us to get people into the country. I would like to stress that I think this will also enrich Norway. In a world where we have a global economy, where we want people in this country, our own citizens, to go out, I think the attitude of the Council of State now expresses, also provides such multicultural enrichment. So I'm satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e565	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e568	I have a question for the Social Minister. We have an explosion in the number of disabled people, including those who buy a disability pension and move abroad. We have a large increase in the number of early pensioners. There will be a smaller and less active part of the population who will pay for the event. When a disability pensioner or a social worker wants to work, they are deducted from all income above 1 G – there will be a reduction in their pension. If they have capital income, they keep everything. This applies to all until they reach the age of 70. After age 70, they can make as much money as they want. This applies to all groups. Can the Minister of Social Affairs think of doing something to get some of the people who have been dissatisfied and who may be able to work, to get back into work by cancelling the scheme to reduce the income they earn over 1 G before age 67? Once upon a time, a number of people who might have needed social security can get better. Can the Minister for Social Affairs think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e577	I agree with the representative of Bastesen that these questions are serious and give reason for one to go into them carefully. It's about to happen. As the representative is probably briefed on, the Sandman Committee has gone through the whole problem of disability and has put forward a number of proposals that are now being consulted. I fully agree that there are enough people who need dissatisfaction when it is granted, but where the disease image and life change to make it easier to get to work, and they will be met. In the case of curtailment in relation to pensions, the Government's view is that it should pay off to work. We must look into this with regard to the proposal that Mr Bastesen is now putting forward. But it's all being taken up and discussed in the Sandman Committee setting, with which I want to come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e585	What's happening today is that people lose all motivation to work when they lose labour income other than 1 G. No one wants to work to pay into the state fund in addition to what they have to pay. What I fear about when the Coordination Committee is done with its attitude is that even those over 70 years of age will be equal to those under 70 years of age, because it is the typical form of policy that usually emerges when such a sample is finished. Can the Council of State assure me that this will not be the result, that those who have the right to earn as much as they will when they are over 70 years of age will not be assimilated to those who are under 70 years of age?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e592	I'm not going to shoot what I'm coming back to Stortinget with, but I can assure you that there will be good arrangements that I think the representative Bastesen too can be well satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e597	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e600	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The Bondevik government followed the call from, among others, four policymakers in Finnmark to address more societal issues related to prostitutes from north-west Russia and the social problems it has created in Bygde-Finnmark. Several departments were together to wish for more qualitative knowledge of this, among others. Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum has pointed out that this was very important. It was made of money and two good applications produced with the participation of the research community in Finnmark were sent in. When one applicant withdrew, the Stoltenberg administration completed the whole process and explained that this would now be covered by the Research Council, and that they did not find it appropriate to continue a good process. The application that had been received was now referred to as poor, and the minister was harmed by collectively instigating the research community in Finnmark on the basis of the fact that an Oslo Institute had withdrawn as co-responsible. The applicants were thus referred to the Research Council. [[President clubs]] The problem was that the Research Council was only last working day before the application deadline expired, and it was aware that this type of application should be evaluated. [[The President Clubs Again]] Is it in this way that the Ministry of Children and Family will give priority to research on this subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e609	The President will point out that it must be possible to ask questions within the given timeframe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e612	First, I would like to take a very clear distance from the presentation that the representative has given of this matter. The government is concerned that we should get something done about the prostitution problem in Finnmark. The reason why the department and I did not think it was right to join the specific project was a clear recommendation from the University of Oslo that the professionalism of the project was not good enough. Then I thought it was responsible and reasonable rather to go a new round, get other actors in, rather than using taxpayers' money in a way that might have made us fail to achieve what we were looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e617	Although the Institute of Crime withdrew, it was still a party to the applications that would continue the process. I would like to ask: does the Minister have an overview of whether there are any applications to the Research Council on this subject? And if there are any applications, are there any applications from North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e622	The signal that has been very clear from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is that we want good applications. Then I promise that we will also find funds for the type of action the representative is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e627	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e630	My question also goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. In the spring, the Labour Party, the Right and the Centre agreed to step up the state grant to kindergartens to provide, among other things. private kindergartens provide a safer economic foundation and, if possible, reduce parental pay. At the National Labour Party meeting, the Council of State went high and also promised free of charge short-term services in kindergartens for children between three and five years of age. Fare promises we've heard before from the Workers' Party. That is why disappointment is great over the draft budget for the year. Government subsidies are increasing, but cyclical taxes, wage increases and proposed service revenues make the daycare centres, and especially the private ones, coming out worse next year than they do this year. We in the Right have proposed 275 million. kr in State grants in addition to the Government’s proposal, an increase of 5 pst. How will the Labour Party make lower parental payments, as the Prime Minister, the party leader and the Minister for Children and Family Affairs all promise, when they are not even able to get it into the draft budget that they have now submitted to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e637	First, I would like to point out the very good history of the Workers' Party in terms of child and family policy. I think we also have to take the reality into account that something happened here a couple of years ago when it came to the kindergarten sector, and it was that we got a cash subsidy that put an effective stop to the kindergarten development in some municipalities. Now it is true that the Right has also been involved in the handling of the growth message from which the Government is working in relation to the kindergarten policy in the country to come. But I would like to say – and this is what Mr Trond Helleland has said – that in the answer that has gone to the Højres Storingsgruppe from the Ministry of Finance on 2 October, if I do not remember completely wrong, the Minister of Finance clearly says, and it has repeatedly also been stated, that we are adding a full compensation for the cyclical charge on kindergartens. The sum is 44 million. kr. So it has to be clear. As regards the Right offensive position on kindergartens, it has actually now entered into the alternative budget presented by the Right. We have agreed with the escalations that we took on through the treatment of the big message, and I want to say that one of the challenges of kindergarten policy in the future will be that we will be able to get the municipalities to deal with this development. It is such that it is not the state itself that is to build kindergartens, there must be an interaction between private actors and between municipalities. I have said very clearly, and will also challenge the Right on that, that I believe that we need to have a municipal development obligation in place, and we need to get a law enforcement in line with the school leisure system. If it doesn't last, at least I'm very ready to assess other and stronger instruments and wonder if the Right is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e649	The right is willing to assess stronger instruments, but it is an instrument that works particularly well — and the Council of State also knows — and there is an increase in State aid. That's where one gets targeted funds to the kindergartens directly. There is an increase in State aid for the next year in the budget, but it is eaten by government tax and by cyclical tax. I am not going to take a long debate on that, but it is clear that the cyclical tax is also negative. The Federation of Private Barnhagers has clearly shown this. In today's business life, the Council's adviser has desperately tried to say that maybe next year's parental pay may be lower with this scheme. My claim is that the parental payment will increase next year as a result of the poor childcare budget, the Workers' Party has submitted. Can the Council of State promise Norwegian parents that the nursery payment will fall next year as a result of her budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e656	First, I want to take a very strong distance from the claim that Trond Helleland is trying to make here. First of all, we are adding a full compensation in relation to the short-term cost of 44 million kroner. kr. Secondly, as the first government in many years, this government has put in full price compensation. The rate for children under the age of six will increase by 6.3 p.m., while the increase for the group over the age of three will be 4.3 p.m. I expect that the Right also realizes that this is actually a strengthening and an increase that we have achieved for the first time in very many years. So, of course, it's a challenge to get the parental pay down, because we're totally dependent on the municipalities not letting this increase in the government grant go into the big drain that we actually have examples of out in Municipality-Norway. Then my answer is: Yes, we shall follow up what the Stortinget has said through a municipal development obligation and through a general law enforcement that the Stortinget has adopted. If not, the government will come back with stronger instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e663	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e668	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President finds it necessary to inform him, on the basis of Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The third term, the last term, has determined that only one supplementary question will be raised after the main question has been answered. This is considered necessary for the completion of the current map within the scheduled time of the morning meeting. There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Justice. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered before question 35, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 5, 6, 7 and 8 from the representatives of Tor Nymo, Bjørn Hernæs, Per Roar Bredvold and Trond Helleland respectively to the Minister for Defence are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who will direct him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Culture on behalf of the Minister for Finance. At the request of the Minister of Culture, this question is moved and answered in response to question 48, i.e.: at the end of the Questionnaire. Questions 16, 17 and 18, from the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold, Ågot Valle and Børge Brende respectively to the Minister for Culture, are moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 48, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Questions 26, 29 and 30, from the representatives of May Britt Vihovde, Jan Simonsen and Per Ove Width respectively to the Minister for Fisheries, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 27, 28 and 31 from the representatives of Steinar Bastesen and Øystein Hedstrom respectively to the Minister for Fisheries will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has left. Question 44, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be taken up by the representative Gunnar Kvassheim. In addition, question 13 was addressed before question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e696	I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following questions: ‘How does the Prime Minister view having people in his own government who have supported several of the most bloody mass murderers of recent times and who still will not distance themselves from it, as announced in the ‘State of the Kingdom’ programme on 8 November 2000?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e703	The Government and the Workers' Party are distancing themselves from all totalitarian regimes and the human vision they represent. Our work is based on the values set out in the Programme of the Workers' Party and the Government's Declaration of Accession. Social democracy has stood up throughout history in the political struggle against dictatorships, against totalitarian regimes around the world and against undemocratic forces both internationally and in our own country. This position is the basis for the work of the trustees and representatives of the Party in all positions. Of course, this also applies to members of my government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e712	This was hardly a response to what I asked for. Obviously, people in youthful ease can be very strange, but if they don't grow up to be able to distance themselves from crazy things they've been in, it's serious. And I think it is particularly serious that the Norwegian people have seen that a member of this country's government has not been able in a clear way to distance herself from being involved in giving international legitimacy to mass murder and torture on a large scale. There seems to be one real answer to this, and it is that the relevant Council of State stands before the Norwegian people and says it is sorry for what it has been doing, and apologize to the survivors for the tyrants involved, not least those of these victims who live in the country where the person concerned is a member of the government of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e719	I answered the question by stressing that absolutely all members of my government are of course on a democratic basis of value and distance themselves from all totalitarian regimes, dictatorships and abuses and violations of human rights. It is of course, it is obvious, and it is also reflected in the programme of the Government and in the Government's Declaration of Accession. And so it is an uncompromising attitude towards this policy that we have seen totalitarian regimes stand for in recent times as well. The fact that you have had other positions in the past and have a different point of view today, that you have changed your mind, is part of a political process that happens to many people. And having meant something that was wrong in the past does not prevent you from doing a good job in a government today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e726	Question 2 will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e732	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The Russians’ massive assault on the Chechens has been taking place for over one year. The Human Rights Watch organisation has now addressed all UN member countries and has asked them to condemn most strongly Russia’s lack of follow-up to the UN resolution of 25 April 2000 on the conflict. How will the Government follow up this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e741	The government shares the concerns expressed by a number of teams about the situation in Chechnya. We have addressed the situation in Chechnya in a number of different international forums, including the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe – the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the UN Commission on Human Rights. In the UN Commission on Human Rights, Norway was the co-rapporteur for the resolution to which the representative Godal refers. In its Resolution, the Commission requests the relevant Special Rapporteurs to visit Chechnya without delay and to report on their findings to the Commission and the General Assembly as soon as possible. The next session of the Human Rights Commission is in March – April 2001. From the Norwegian side, we will consider the reports when they are available. The Norwegian Presidency of the OSCE in 1999 gave us the opportunity to play a very active role in international efforts to promote a political solution, improve the human rights situation and alleviate human suffering in this area. Thanks to our position in the OSCE Presidency Troika, we have also been able to participate actively in the organisation's work, including in relation to Chechnya. Our commitment to preventing human rights violations in Chechnya is not limited to multilateral forums. The situation in Chechnya has been addressed to the Russians on a number of occasions, most recently during Prime Minister Kasianov’s visit to Norway at the end of September. We will continue to address the human rights situation in Chechnya as long as there is reason for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e757	I take note of the answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and look forward to joining in the further work of the Government on this matter. I think there's a special aspect that there's reason to stress, and it's that when we're trying to establish an international legal order, it's really important that the law applies both to the big ones and to the small ones. We see today that there are well-intentioned arrests on the butchers in the Balkans, and that they are brought to justice in Europe, while when it comes to the master butcher in Chechnya, a red runner rolls out to hit him. There is a sense of a double morality in the international community that I believe is very unfortunate for the international legal order. This hasn't at least been pointed at the Human Rights Watch in a couple of times. I would ask the Foreign Minister to insist that it be equal to the law of Loke and of Tor also in the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e767	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The continuation of Nordic passport freedom was an important reason why the majority of the population were in favour of Schengen membership. The Socialist Left already said that freedom to cross borders will be replaced by control within the borders. Now it turns out that Schengen rules require personal checks on visitors to holiday areas. It means that passports are needed for travel in the Nordic countries, and it raises the question of whether the Norwegian people are led behind the lights. What will the Minister for Foreign Affairs do to preserve passport freedom?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e776	It is right, as Mr Ågot Valle says, that ensuring the continuation of the Nordic passport union, including the Nordic passport freedom, was an important objective of the Nordic countries' entry into the Schengen cooperation, but it is not right that the Norwegian people have been led behind the light, and I am going to explain it. The Norway and Iceland Cooperation Agreement with the EU on Schengen underlines that the Agreement is not to affect cooperation in the framework of the Nordic passport union. Nor has there been any question raised by the Schengen or EU teams about making changes to passport freedom in the Nordic region. Nordic passport freedom will therefore not be affected by Norway's entry into Schengen cooperation. The Schengen Convention obliges the Schengen countries to ensure that hotels and other accommodation facilities provide for the identity of overnight guests. This is done by filling in a card with a name, address, etc. and submitting an identification to confirm the accuracy of the information at check-in. Norway already has such rules in the Foreign Affairs Act and the corresponding regulation. In order to avoid misunderstandings in connection with Norway joining the Schengen cooperation, an addition has been made to the relevant provision of the Foreign Regulation, § 136, which expressly states that no passport will be required from Nordic citizens. Since identity cards are also not common in the Nordic region, Nordic citizens will be able to legitimize by presenting driving licences, bank cards, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e789	I thank you for your answer. Now it was not exactly the arrangement to require passports when crossing the borders that I was in, but the requirement not only to fill out some forms, but to display ID cards that also show citizenship. In Sweden, it is now assessed to reintroduce the requirement of passports for Nordic tourists, because it is required when they arrive at hotels, campsites, boat ports, etc. That's why I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is it wrong what the Swedes are doing? Have they misunderstood the agreement when they now talk about requiring passports? It is also a concern in Denmark. The Danes also go around discussing whether they need to require passports from foreign tourists coming there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e798	It is impossible for me to answer what Sweden intends to do. What is a fact is that at least we don't intend to do this, because we're going to get an addendum to the relevant provision of the foreign regulation, as I explained, and there it will be explicitly stated that no passport will be required for Nordic citizens. With regard to the requirement to show ID cards, it is not rare that you have to show something today when you enter a hotel. Pass is known as something you have to show when you cross a boundary. This is not the case here, and as I have said, Norway does not require passports to be displayed when identifying itself in a hotel.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e846	Questions 5, 6, 7 and 8 are postponed until the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e852	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In the evening post on 23 October 2000, four out of ten Kosovar Albanians seeking political asylum in Sweden are allowed to become. In Norway it is less than 1 pst. which has received a positive response to their applications so far. What is the reason why the number of asylum assessments in Sweden and Norway seems to be so high?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e861	First, I would like to point out that I have previously answered this question in a letter to the Stortinget on 30 October this year, in response to questions from the representative Lisbet Ruggtvedt. As I pointed out in this reply, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs has, in the beginning, prioritised the treatment of the simple issues when they have dealt with applications for asylum from persons from Kosovo who have had collective protection. Simple things are things where, for example: no need to obtain further information. When the UDI now starts to deal with the other issues, there is reason to believe that the grant percentage will gradually become slightly higher. With regard to the relationship between the practices of Norwegian and Swedish foreign authorities, the situation is otherwise that one mainly assesses applications for asylum from Kosovo Albanians in the same way. The background to the difference between Norway and Sweden is that many of the applicants who have received a residence permit in Sweden, of which in several cases are families with children, have been there for four to five years. These persons have not been granted asylum but have been granted humanitarian residence because of association with Sweden and not because they are considered to be in need of protection. In Norway, we do not have many such old applications for asylum from Kosovo Albanians. The reason for this is that Kosovo Albanians who arrived in Norway before 1 January 1997 were granted a residence permit after a decision by the previous government. Some applicants, including some families with children who came here after 1 January 1997, were also granted a residence permit before collective protection was introduced in April 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e872	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understood the Council of State so that you worked through the applications in such a way that you took care of – if I was not wrong – the simplest first, and there is also a way to put this procedure in place. But what would perhaps be natural, and as I have also seen in Sweden, is that you evaluate the total amount of applications you have, and then you take out and prioritize the applications it is most important to get processed quickly. And then my question to the Council of State is, could you imagine going away from such an A4 treatment of the applications and rather practice a treatment more in line with what has been done in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e881	The handling of Kosovo Albanians cases is ongoing and high. They will be dealt with very quickly and are prioritised by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. As I said, the main explanation is that there may seem to be a difference between Norway and Sweden, simply that we have started at a slightly different end of the pile, and that as I said, we have started with the simplest things. But now the UDI will start with those applications that are a little bit more complicated, and then there's also reason to think that the acceptance rate will be slightly higher than what has been the case until now, so I don't feel any need to go in and instruct or adjust this practice. The point is that all cases should be dealt with as quickly as possible, so that we can clarify them, and then the result of these cases will be on a continuous basis – and they will do so in the next few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e891	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘For two consecutive years, the municipality of Håler has agreed to receive four refugee families and has been ready to accept them for a long time. Nevertheless, nothing happens, because the UDI says they are not finished dealing with these matters. The municipality is also not a stranger to receive more when these four families are first in place. Does the Council of State agree that the UDI spends so long to have these families out when we know that there are between 8 000 and 9 000 asylum recipients waiting for the municipality of destination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e900	The Foreign Directorate has asked the municipality of Hyler for the residence of 30 refugees in 1999 or over a period of two years. On the basis of this request, the municipality of Hyler decided on 30 June 1999, as I am familiar with: ‘... to live up to 4 refugee families with children from the autumn of 1999.’; Thus, the municipality assumed that the refugees had to be families with children, and justified it by ‘problems in recruiting homes for lone persons’ and that the municipality was a ‘good municipality for rearing families with children’. However, in its decision, Håler had several leaders for the settlement, as I am familiar with it. According to the municipality’s assessment, it was also ‘important to settle refugees who initially want to become a small municipality’. The municipality also believes that it is an ‘benefit that refugees can live as closely as possible to each other, and in the same school circle in general’, and points out that ‘the problem can be primarily linked to the recruitment of suitable housing’. These are the leaders who restrict who can be settled in the municipality, and the UDI perceived it as having problems getting housing for the families they wanted to receive. UDI contacted the municipality in May this year and was then informed that the municipality had no vacant dwellings. As the municipality continued to want families with children, the relevant nationality groups were discussed. The selection is slightly limited, because the entire 86 pst. Of the refugees who are now waiting in the municipal square, not what we call exquisitely lonely, and many municipalities prefer families, among other things. according to the housing situation. In a letter dated 8 September this year, UDI asked the municipality of Håler to maintain its decision on the settlement and also asked for a meeting with the municipality, among others. to discuss current refugees for settlement on Whaler. The UDI is, as far as possible, prepared to meet the wishes of the municipality to receive families with children, but would like to see the municipality also able to accommodate lone refugees, possibly a group of lone minors. I share with the representative Signe Øyes the concern that there are too many in reception, and that many are sitting there for too long. Today it is approx. 3100 people who are awaiting residence in a municipality in the current year and one third of them have waited more than six months after they were given a residence decision. Of course, it is desirable that all municipalities, including Hyler, take into account that the majority of refugees are unanimous and try to obtain housing for this group. The UDI Regional Office and the Department of the House Bank are in dialogue with a number of municipalities on reasonable and naughty housing solutions for all the lone refugees to be settled. I hope that municipalities who primarily want to settle families can reconsider their decisions and show flexibility, so that the many lonely people who are now waiting in the municipal square can settle as quickly as possible. I also hope that the municipality of Hyler and the UDI can agree as soon as possible, so that we can settle more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e915	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that there must be flexibility for both the UDI and the municipalities. The fact that there should definitely be families, that there should be people from special countries, etc., I think we now have to get to grips with discussing. Because we can't have rules that are so square that those who are now in reception, and who are sorely need to get out to a municipality, live there and start a new life, are hindered in this. I also believe that when the municipality says they have a housing offer and are able to receive refugees, UDI cannot be a kind of control over the municipalities. Then we have to trust that the municipalities have assessed this and are able to make reasonable decisions. I want to ask if the Council of State agrees with me on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e922	With regard to the specific matter between the municipality of Håler and the UDI, I hope that one there will find a solution quickly, and that flexibility will be shown to achieve it. Generally speaking, the representative Eye and I agree that we need to take a power cap to settle even more quickly. Then it must not be on either law, regulation, money or whatever it is, but the municipalities and the state together must simply take a joint action. I believe that the Government has made a very important contribution through our draft budget for next year, where we are increasing the integration grant from NOK 300000 to NOK 365 000, in line with what the municipalities themselves have asked for. But then I also expect the municipalities to take their responsibility to settle the many refugees who are currently in reception for too long and are waiting to come out. Especially about the lone minors, but of course it's all about everyone. I believe that we're going to be able to solve this, and I believe that the new housing model, along with the money that's proposed extra for next year, will enable us to get away from the desperate situation that unfortunately too many people now experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e929	We're now going to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e935	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘How will the Council of State follow up the multiple decision of the Health Region of East on the construction of a new hospital in Follo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e942	I have also registered that the Regional Health Committee in the Health Region of East has joined Akershus County Municipality's desire to build a new local hospital in Follo. The decision was taken by nine votes to six. The minority claimed that there is no basis for implementing the expansion of Follo hospital according to the current main function programme for the new Follo hospital. The establishment of a new hospital will require approval by the ministry. In connection with the large and expensive development plans in Akershus and Østfold, including: the planned construction of a new central hospital in Akershus, a new Follo hospital and a new Eastfold hospital, the Ministry has clarified that the development plans of the two counties need to be assessed according to the overall capacity and needs of the region, and that the regional priority of construction projects will be emphasised. This will be in line with the Storting decision on enhanced regional coordination and national governance of specialist health services. Storting treatment of St.meld. No 37 for 1997-98 on the division of regions in the south-east, where it was decided that Oslo and Akershus should belong to the same health region, aimed at facilitating the coordination of specialist health services and the exploitation of capacity across the county boundaries of the capital area. This perspective will, of course, also focus on an evaluation of the application for approval of a new Follo hospital. In the forthcoming decision of the Ministry on regional health plans in February 2001, the Ministry has requested that health regions also give priority to development projects in the region. I will decide on the approval of the new Follo hospital only when an application from Akershu County Municipality had to be made. Such an application must be considered in conjunction with the overall plans for hospitalisation in the Health Region of the East, i.e. after that examination of the regional health plan. I assume that the representative of Svarstad Haugland understands that at this stage I cannot go into the concrete follow-up of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e953	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I had probably hoped to get a slightly more positive answer, but I'm glad that the Council of State will wait for an application, and that he will then reconsider this. We've been waiting for a clarification in the Health Region of Aust. What is disturbing for those who live in the Follo district – there are actually 120 000 inhabitants – is that there is a signal that a new hospital in Follo is building up a new one in Oslo instead of building a new hospital in Follo. I am asking that the Minister of Health should at least distance himself from such a thought. I would also like to remind you that when one was told where a new rickshospital was going to be, one of the premises was that one should build a new hospital in Follo, because Follo was also inside the picture in relation to the location of a new rickshospital. Now you chose to add it to Gaustad in Oslo, so the Follo people are waiting for their hospital next time. Akershus County has spent a lot of money on the preliminary work. Can the Minister of Health at any rate reject the idea of building a new hospital in Oslo instead of Follo?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e964	As I said in my first answer, all questions about setting up a new hospital should be approved by the department. Once again, I think it is right for me to await the applications that may come from the county councils that decide that they want to build hospitals. The thoughts that were otherwise referred to here are something that is very difficult for me to relate to from here, and I have seen no need for either to say one thing or the other about them, nor to reject them on the basis that exists here. We have to deal with such applications when they may come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e969	We're going back to question number. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e975	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The standard rate for specialists pays 450 kroner for a brocade operation, while the outpatient clinics of the hospitals get about 7 400 kroner for the same surgical procedure. What is the reason for the large difference in reimbursement for the same treatment carried out, respectively in a public hospital and in a private specialist?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e984	There are several reasons why the reimbursement tariffs for one and the same surgical procedure will differ in the standard rates of medical practice and in the DRG tariff system of hospitals. The reimbursement in public hospitals is based on estimates of the average cost of the intervention, where both inpatients and outpatients are included in the patient base. The standard tariff for specialists, on the other hand, is the result of the annual negotiations between the Medical Association, the Municipal Council and the State. This tariff system thus also reflects the parties’ own priorities in allocating the negotiated result at different tariffs. In addition to purely health policy considerations, consideration of reasonable income trends for the different specialist groups will also be given to such a context. However, I am very concerned that private practitioners in operational subjects represent a significant untapped potential in helping to reduce hospital waiting lists and otherwise to improve the effectiveness of patient treatment. The example of the representative Alvheim refers to is a good illustration that specialists outside the hospital are too little encouraged to operate through the tariff system as practised today. I have therefore started work with a view to allowing private specialists with an operating contract to be included in the tariffs included in the input-driven financing, where they cooperate with public hospitals to operate, inter alia. patients from hospital waiting lists. In that case, the reimbursement will be due to the county council, or the owner, who must agree with the specialist on the purchase of these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e993	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I found very positive and understanding. One of the main aims of establishing an operational agreement with private specialists was to exploit their treatment capacity and the total surgical capacity of the country. Last year the tariffs for cataract operations were changed at the private clinics. It has had a very good effect and waiting lists have been significantly reduced. Is it possible for the Minister of Health to change the surgical tariffs for other types of operations that can be carried out in private clinics and by private specialists to exploit the total capacity? I perceived the Minister of Health's response so that this was now being facilitated. But can he say something more specific about this with the payment to the county council and the repayment to the specialists with the operating agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1002	The example of the representative, Alvheim, refers to cataract operations, is precisely an expression of what can be done in other areas as well. I can once again confirm that we are working to get it to a greater extent also within e.g. the ear-nose neck area and the area which was the starting point for the question asked by the representative Alvheim. More specifically, if the tariff system itself, I do not want to be now, except to say that it will be based on the established DRG rates for hospitals. Those are the ones who are the basis for reimbursement to the hospital owners who then have to enter into contracts through hospitals with the specialists concerned. However, I do not want to go into the details of how the tariffs will be passed on in the agreements that are concluded. Agreements must necessarily be made between the individual hospital or hospital owner and the specialists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1010	I will ask a new question to the Minister of Health: ‘It is commendable that the Minister of Health prepares the purchase of operations abroad in order to reduce health cows in Norway. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen an increase in hospital infections, and more and more resistant bacterial strains have been detected. Has the Council assured itself that the hospitals with which they intend to conclude an agreement have hospital infections under control?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1019	I can assure you that no agreements will be concluded or added to any treatment for Norwegian patients in hospitals abroad who do not have hospital infections under control. However, the questions raised by the representative Alvheim concern a very serious problem. I had almost said that I am happy that I got that question. Nor do we have any guarantee against the transmission of resistant bacteria and the spread of hospital infections even if the foreign hospitals have this under control. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the preparedness for such problems in Norway in connection with a greater extent of the purchase of patient treatment abroad. I was concerned about these problems during yesterday's debate here in the Stortingen on Innst. S. No 24 a.m. treatment abroad. Just with reference to the risks of infection and spread of, inter alia: Antibiotic-resistant bacteria I warned against taking unnecessary risks by going too fast with treatment abroad. I assume that the Alvheim representative's question also reflects a similar attitude to the importance of not increasing the risk of spreading hospital infections. I now assume that the costs related to the necessary infection protection measures are covered within the appropriations decided yesterday by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1031	I thank the Minister of Health for a well thought out and well prepared answer. In fact, I'm in line with the Minister of Health on the matter. The Stortingen has now decided to grant NOK 1 billion for treatment of Norwegian patients abroad. I have registered that the Minister of Health has visited a hospital in Germany for the treatment of Norwegian patients. However, I am unknown whether there have also been negotiations with Scandinavian and Nordic hospitals in this context. This will be an advantage in view of the risk of infection, as Nordic and Scandinavian hospitals have a relatively low rate of hospital infections, as is the case in Norway. Can the Minister of Health confirm that there has been or will be negotiations on the operational treatment of Norwegian patients in the Scandinavian and Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1040	So far, it has not been under my responsibility to negotiate patient treatment with Scandinavian health authorities in these countries. I have no idea whether there may have been discussions about such patient treatment between some of the Norwegian county councils and Scandinavian health authorities or Scandinavian hospital owners. It is quite possible that this could have happened without me having an overview of it. I can also say that there will be discussions about such possibilities. The first preparations have also been made for this. At the same time, I can add that during my conversations with the German health authorities, it appeared that there were also contacts with just Swedish interests about treatment in Germany. So it's not given that in the areas where we want treatment abroad, it's capacity for it in the Scandinavian countries. But we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1047	Question 13 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1053	«The Trondheim Regional Hospital will finance the operation with advertising revenue through advertising on walls and on television screens around the hospital. Does the Council of State see any ethical concerns in advertising-funded hospitals, and what initiatives will the Council of State take to put a stop to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1060	For the sake of order, I would like to stress that there is of course no advertising-funded hospital operations in Norway. Hospital operations are and shall be a public responsibility. The regional hospital in Trondheim, however, plans to use advertising in order to obtain extra income for the hospital. This is a very small part of the hospital's overall budget. The County Committee of the South Tribute team has unanimously recommended the plans. I have full confidence that the hospital's management itself ensures that the arrangements are ethically sound and not offensive to any patients. However, I will follow the development of advertising-funded information activities both in this and in other hospitals. But I find no reason to take any initiative to stop such plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1067	I thank you for your answer. I notice that the Council of State says that hospital operations are a public responsibility. I also note the pragmatic approach of the Council of State in relation to advertising-funded hospital operations. I have to say that in many areas it may be reasonable to have a pragmatic approach to different parts of the healthcare system, as long as you have public governance of the services and you stick to the objective of having an equivalent health care service for the whole population. But the pragmatism that the Council of State here is basing on, I'm fundamentally in disagreement with. When the Council of State states that there is still public funding to be provided and that it is not financed through advertising, it is only partly correct. Obviously, you start off on a line where you're going to finance it, you could say that the proportion is very small, it's maybe pretty small, not very large, quite large and eventually very large. It is tempting to ask the Council of State: at what level, when it comes to funding advertising for public health institutions, will the Council of State begin to see concerns, if he does not see it in principle already at the time of its introduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1074	It is probably possible that I see something more pragmatic on this issue than the representative of Ballo says, but it is not necessary to understand that I do not have views on both advertising in hospitals, how it is designed and how much it gets. But I don't have any fundamental counter-representation against the kind of action that this is referred to. That's the one. So pragmatically I want to be. With regard to the level of when this had to get a level that makes it worrying, I would say that the way I see it, it's so far until this can get a level where you can think that it's worrying about the total funding of the hospitals, that at least I don't feel any need to go into it so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1081	We go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1087	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘The Directorate of Drugs addressed a request to the ACAN in 1999 for the Committee to assume responsibility as a Norwegian resource centre with the area of competence in working life and drugs. The AKAN Committee is very positive about this. When will the AKAN get a clear signal to establish the above resource centre?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1096	Employment is probably the most central area for the prevention of drug problems in the adult population. The aim is both to consolidate the workplace as a drug-free zone and to help workers with drug problems to prevent them from falling out and getting their situation worse. In the context of the reorganisation we have now carried out by the state in the prevention of drug problems, it will also be assessed whether one of the centres of expertise should take on drug abuse in the workplace as a hot area of competence. However, this could only be a supplement to the AKAN, which is a tripartite cooperation between LO, NHO and the State of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and one of the absolutely necessary instruments we have to make an effort in this area. So I think that AKAN already plays an important role as a resource center. As a result of the request made by the Directorate of Drugs in April 1999, AKAN engaged a consultant to investigate the case. The investigation describes two recommended organisational options, with annual costs of approx. Three million. kr. At the meeting of the AKAN Committee in December 1999, the representatives of the LOs and the NHO expressed their great support for the proposals, provided that any implementation does not go beyond the work carried out by the AKAN in Norwegian working life today. At the same time, they provided that the grant frameworks of those parties were not extended. The Directorate of Drugs sent the case to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on 11 February of this year with a favourable opinion and, at the same time, informed that the Directorate did not see the possibility of funding within the financial framework of the year. No unbundled grant funds could be used for that purpose at that time. AKAN was briefed on this and that the matter will be dealt with in the context of the 2001 budget. ACAN receives grants above cap. 0610 Directorate of Drugs heading 70 Voluntary drug-prevention work. For 2001, the item was proposed to be granted EUR 54.2 million. kr. I will assume that the Directorate of Drugs will deal with the matter as soon as the budget is adopted and that answers will be available as soon as possible in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1105	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. When, on 1 December 1998, the Stortingen examined the Action Plan for the reduction of drug use, the Stortingen adopted a number of points in relation to abstinence measures, such as at work, in the sports arena, in traffic and in pregnancy. The area of work and drug use is an important area of action. I was surprised by an investigation for a time back that showed that the screw 40 pst. of all alcohol consumption was related to the workplace and/or workplace-related events. I interpret the response of the Council of State as very positive. The Directorate of Drugs also takes a very positive view of a resource centre with competence in the field of employment and drugs. I therefore look forward to an early positive decision as soon as the 2001 budget has been adopted in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1119	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In a letter from the Ministry of Environment to the Ministry of Transport, plans for a third runway are made at the Gardermoen. Is it true that such plans exist, and when, if so, are these plans made public?’ The question says it when they're published, but actually I want an answer when they were published. There is a print error in the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1136	The Swedish Aviation Agency has objected to the municipal sub-plan for an area west of Oslo airport in the municipality of Nannestad. The matter is now before the Ministry of the Environment for final decision. In this respect, the Ministry of the Environment asked for an opinion from the Ministry of Transport. As a basis for the Opinion of the Ministry of Transport, the Department of Aviation asked the Swedish Aviation Agency for an explanation of the case. In its reply to the Ministry, the Swedish Aviation Agency presented the present objection case and added a note from September of this year in which forecasts of traffic growth, expansion needs and expansion rates were generally presented on the Gardermoen. It appears from that note that on the basis of current forecasts, the Aviation Agency considers that a third runway will be required in 2020 on the Gardermoen. In the Ministry of Transport’s opinion to the Ministry of the Environment, this note was referred to and attached. The Ministry of Environmental Protection has not yet taken a decision on the objection of the west aerodrome area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1147	I thank the Council of State for your answer. My concern for the whole thing is how bad it must have been for the construction of the airport at Gardermoen, when one has not given a clear signal to the municipalities in question, that there may be plans to build a third runway. Now we see in various media essays that both the word leaders, both in Nanestad and Ullensaker, have not heard of the fact that it is about building a third runway before now. They have not been in the planning process at all, say some of those who have been in the planning process from the beginning. And for municipal politicians who want to have a little sedentary framework into the future for using their own land, it's quite difficult to plan the use of the land when they're bandaged in this way. Now there are plans to use these areas. My question to the Minister of Transport is whether he can be involved and influence the Ministry of the Environment so that the municipality can get clear answers, and so that they can also use this area that they intend to use for food purposes. Otherwise, they will have financial conditions that will be negative for the municipalities – and we cannot tolerate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1158	In general, it is my impression that the municipalities concerned see it as very positive that the Gardermoen is located just there, and that there is also a positive development in relation to the main aerodrome. The matter we are now discussing came up in connection with the processing of a new municipal sub-plan. It was hoped that the Swedish Aviation Agency would ensure that it could be built in. In the past, these areas in question were regulated as free areas. I insist that it is right to have the freedom of action, which may be necessary in relation to the developments and prospects you have in relation to developments in Gardermoen in the future. I also think that would be a total benefit to the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1168	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Maintenance and operation of road tunnels has a great deal to say about safety risks and the environment. How is the status of the filtration plant(s)/cleaning plant(s) in road tunnels where installed and is the Norwegian Road Code guidelines followed up on maintenance and servicing?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1177	Purification installations installed in some tunnels are measures which may have an impact on the safety and the environment of the tunnel. In order to get a comprehensive picture of the impact of operation and maintenance on the environment and safety of a road tunnel, it is necessary to look at the impact of all measures combined. This applies both to the operation and maintenance of various installations and to the tunnel itself. The Directorate of Road Information indicates that experience so far indicates that the effectiveness of sewage treatment plants varies from tunnel to tunnel. Only after a thorough evaluation of the effectiveness of the sewage treatment plants installed can one say a little more about the practical benefits of such measures in terms of safety and the environment. Work is now under way to monitor the effectiveness of sewage treatment plants installed in Norwegian road tunnels. One will then consider how much such installations can contribute to improving safety and the environment compared to alternative measures. Alternative measures include more frequent cleaning/washing to remove particulate contamination in the tunnel itself, better equipment for cleaning/removing dust and soot, ventilation procedures, etc. The state road system will also try to make a cost-benefit assessment of the different measures to provide a better basis for such assessments. The road standards do not specify requirements for maintenance and servicing on individual measures such as: sewage treatment plant. The frequency and extent of maintenance and service are adapted to the needs of the individual equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1190	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that all these measures must be seen together, but the installations are very important not only for the environment but also because of safety. In the event of a fire in a tunnel, these facilities shall clean both the smoke and the gas that occurs. In the Oslo area, there's just over 50 million invested. kr in such installations in some new tunnels. And the ÅDT in these tunnels is located on a total of 50,000–60 000 cars, so there's a lot of traffic, there's a lot of traffic in these tunnels. Road tunnels in the Oslo area where filtration plants and sewage treatment plants are installed: are these facilities being run today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1201	To what extent installations are actively being run, I have to do a closer look before I can give a proper answer. I would also like to say that, in addition to the fact that these are installations that are largely, as the representative says, an Oslo phenomenon, experience will also be gained from the installation and use of such installations in the Lærdal tunnel, Norway's longest road tunnel, which opens in a few weeks. This will help to provide the necessary experience base to assess how to deal with this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1211	I have to ask the Minister for Transport another question, in another case: ‘Railway works are upgrading and investing 170 million. crowns in route sections where the NSB has closed down or is to shut down the operation of the train. This has great similarities with the Road Directorate’s Road to Nowhere. When has the Council of State been planning to tackle and correct the shock-moving transport planning that is taking place?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1220	I assume that the representative Nistad is aiming for the actions that have been taken, and is being done on the Arendalsbanen and Meråkerbanen. Arendalsbanen was electrified in the period 1992-1995 following a decision in Stortinget. The track was opened for electric operation in June 1995. The total cost of upgrading the track was 70 million. kr. The background for the adjustment of train running on the track is the driver deficiency of the NSB. This is a temporary measure. However, the Government considers that the issue of passenger traffic on the Arendalsbahn should be considered during 2001, in the context of negotiations between the Ministry of Transport and NSA BA on a new framework agreement for the purchase of passenger transport services for the period 2002-2005. In 1998, in order to ensure safety on the Meråkerbahn, sleeper and rail shifts were introduced on the line. The project also aimed at facilitating 22,5 tonnes of axle load for freight traffic. These are maintenance measures that are cost-based at EUR 98 million. kr. Freight traffic on the line is increasing; today there are 32 freight trains per week. Furthermore, the NSB intends to resume passenger services on the line from 7 January 2001, with the newly purchased diesel engine sets BM 92. Furthermore, the NSB is in discussions with the parties involved in Norway and Sweden to look at the possibility of establishing a pendulum between Østersund, Trondheim and Oppdal. Traffic planning can be improved, not least the lack of drivers shows this. However, I am concerned not only with shooting at the planners, choosing projects and level of funding is ultimately a political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1231	I thank you for your answer. I am at least happy that the Railway Agency can quantify the amounts they spend on distances to nowhere. It was a little worse when I asked the Road Directorate, they didn't have numbers on everything they had built for nowhere. So that was at least an improvement. So now the Council of State says he's considering reopening the sections, he's calling it temporary closure. And then I want to ask the Council of State: is there at all any track in Norway that has been temporarily closed down and that has come into operation again? I do not think these will come into operation again, then a great wonder will happen. Can the Council of States not also open up for us to get private players, or to set up some competition so that we can get other players? I am aware that in the national transport plan he opens up this for freight, but is it not also possible to do so on passenger transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1240	I don't know if you can historically point to examples where you've cancelled train traffic and resumed it. But then I cannot point to a historical parallel to the fact that trains had to be temporarily stopped due to driver shortages. That's what's the content and the basis of this situation. And as I said in my main response, at Meråkerbanen, it is planned to resume passenger traffic in January. This assumes that you continue to plan. Otherwise, the resource situation will determine whether it is possible. On the issue of other actors, we have said that even where the NSB does not operate in passenger traffic, there will be opportunities for other actors. It was, as you know, the basis for the assessments of the ‘Time train’ at Bratsbergbanen in its time. Otherwise, it is not right that you could not number the ‘road to Nowhere’ here. It was more of a definition question, where I probably didn't go into the reasoning that the representative Nistad attached to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1253	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Refer to answers to written questions, paragraph. 1 locally expresses full confidence in the Director of Air Navigation. [[joint professional organisation]] In retrospect, I have become aware that NTL and 2fo as organisations are not behind the statements. Will the Council of State follow up the matter, so that proper information on the working environment and safety of air traffic control is provided?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1262	As the Ministry of Transport sees it, it is the trustee of an official organisation that externally communicates the organisation's views on matters, among others. under the Main Agreement and the Main Agreement on Tariffs in the State. The Ministry of Transport does not consider it appropriate to question the powers of the trustee, as long as they are legally appointed by the members to represent them. The Ministry of Transport is therefore also dealing with the opinions of the board of trustees with regard to the working environment of the Air Traffic Inspectorate. We consider this to be in line with the rules of the game that apply between the social partners. We are also aware that NTL and 2fo are two of several air traffic control organisations. In addition to the opinions of the Trustees, the Ministry, as mentioned in previous replies to written questions from the representative, Mr Stensaker, will follow up on its activities, inter alia. through meetings of the supervisory authorities. In addition, there are meetings with management and organisations in the supervision, precisely because there has been concern about the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1271	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is said that there is no smoke without fire, and although in this case there has not been full heat, it humiliates vigorously. Sickness messages and notified cases indicate that the working environment is not as it should be. It is a matter of concern in such an important, neutral and objective management body as the Air Safety Authority should be, and this may compromise the safety of Norwegian aviation. Will the State Council take steps to clean up the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1280	Not least the press review has shown concern in the Air Safety Authority. A supervisory work environment survey has been carried out relatively recently. As I said in my main reply, this work will be followed up further, because there is no doubt that for the sake of those employed in the supervision, and not least for the sake of the central and important task of supervision, it is important to have an organisation that is effective. And an organization that is effective is primarily an organization where you have both peace and trust within the organization. We will continue to follow this up, with a view to getting into that situation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1288	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘I have heard that the NSB is now preparing to make the Finnish station unmanned from New Year’s. On 18 October 2000, I asked questions about this in an oral question. I want to show you to the Council of State, where he says he'll share my concerns when it comes to several aspects of making this special station unmanned. It was promised that the Council of State would go deeper into the issue of Finland. What has the Council of State done in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1297	After the representative Vihovde asked questions in the oral Question Time on 18 October this year, NSB BA was asked in writing to provide an information on the company's plans for the Finnish station. In this respect, reference was made in particular to the Ministry of Transport circular N-6/98 of 1 July 1997 with guidelines for the processing of railway station crews. This round table was developed in due course to allow local/private time to assess alternative operations at stations where the NSB is considering putting down its own ticket sales. For information, I can inform you that the NSB has confirmed that a process has been initiated to close its own ticket sales at the Finnish station from 1 January 2001. The station, which is currently manned by two years' work, has very low earnings. Manning duties are exclusively related to the sale of tickets and easier freight operations. However, on a voluntary basis, the two NSB staff have also carried out service tasks for the cabin crew. I am aware that safety issues have been raised with the Railway Authority. I assume, of course, that the arrangements being implemented are safe and sound. In meetings with the Finnish community and in talks with Ulvik, the NSB has proposed alternative operations and use of the station. In this context, this includes, inter alia: consider the possibility of a collection of several tasks in the same establishment, including the service tasks of the cabin crew, ski and bicycle hire, guide/broadcaster, sale of tourist goods, tickets, etc., and the work of the Railway Agency. The NSB has stated that concrete plans are currently being worked out with other stakeholders about a separate company in the Finnish station that can take responsibility for such a service offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1313	In this case, I thought that the NSB had behaved rather arrogantly. Ulvik heread has contacted the NSB with a letter, but has not received a reply. There has also been no dialogue, as far as I know, between the Railway Agency and the NSB. Based on the safety considerations, the Railway Agency believes that this station should be manned. They also see the need for manning at this station. There has also been no dialogue on the possibility of financial participation by the Railway Agency. In the case of ignition, a letter is now sent from the Customerphone passenger traffic service – it is blown up – that a more hall is wanted in the stations. In this case, the NSB has a social responsibility. They are in a monopolistic situation, and I thought that before they dismantle this station, they should have a proper dialogue with Ulvik here, with the railway station and with stakeholders up there on how this should be resolved. And at least that contact isn't that good right now. I think it's sad that someone is doing this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1320	As I said in my main response, the safety aspects presuppose that I am handled properly by those involved, both the NSB and the Railway Agency, and ultimately, if necessary, assessed by the supervision. As far as dialogue is concerned, I will take the signals given here and make a recommendation to the company that if the dialogue does not yet have a qualified content, it should receive it, in accordance with the assessments I made in my main response.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1330	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The morning commuter train on the Eastfold Railway is set on the grounds that this route offer is not profitable. The criterion of profitability is specified for at least 90 passengers on average. Have the NSB, in consultation with the Ministry, identified such profitability criteria for all route services and are they the basis for the purchase of transport services from the NSB?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1339	For the train products included in the purchase of passenger services by the country, no general profitability criteria are laid down. The Ministry’s starting point for the purchase of such services is social considerations in relation to passenger services that cannot be operated on a commercial basis. It is true that the offer on the Eastfold Railway was reduced by two train departures each way from 20 October. The reason for this setting is that currently the NSB does not have enough drivers. As the situation now is, the NSB has tried to screen as much of the commuters as possible in the central eastern region. On the Eastfold Railway, a departure from Halden is at 4 p.m. 03.55 on arrival Oslo 05.45 replaced by bus from 20 October. This early departure was created in connection with the change of route on 22 August 1999 when Rome’s sport was opened, and was to be an offer to air travellers and commuters, among others. to the Gardermoen. Experience has shown that this train has low coverings and is operated with about 20 – 30 passengers from Halden to Moss. Customers from Moss have an alternative offer with local trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1348	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that in the case of the train that is cancelled, it was stated that you did not have drivers now, and that you are driving a bus. But it's part of these trains that are permanently cancelled, and you say that the reason for that is that they're not profitable. I can accept that. But what are the criteria for purchasing transport services? Because it has to be a relationship between what you buy, and what it is a contract with the NSB, and the offers we get. How will the Council of State explain that we are getting the offer we are going to have and that the Ministry has contracted with the NSB for the Stortinget? We are, after all, spending almost NOK 1 billion on purchasing transport services, and we have reduced the offer without any compensation. Then we should be able to know which criteria to apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1355	Of course, a very central criterion in the negotiation of the purchase of passenger services is the need, in relation to alternative options, and not least the passenger base that can be expected to be both obtained and experienced. And what we see here is that the passenger base is relatively low when it comes to this early departure. But it's replaced by a bus. On the question of how to report on the use of funds, this will form part of the budget procedure in the Storting, where reports on the use of funds are also available in the past. When we are in this particular situation of driver deficiency, of course, it would be the NSB that has to bear the costs of alternative means of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1374	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1380	This question, from Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1383	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Council of State replied to a question in regular Question Time on 25 October 2000 concerning the transfer of the Directorate-General for Fisheries from Svolvær to Bodø. In its reply, the Council of State repeated twice that it was the consideration of the employees that was crucial in the decision. What processes and discussions have been carried out with the employees and their trustees before the decision was taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1392	As the Minister for Fisheries stated in the Question Time of 25 October 2000, the Fisheries Guidance Service and the Control Office were merged on 1 November 1998 into an external agency for fisheries management. At the time of the merger, the outer edifice was divided into nine regions. Each regional office consists of two sections, the business development and planning section and the supervisory and control department. In Northern Ireland, the regional office is geographically divided into two, with the regional director and the food development and planning department located in Bodø, while the inspection and control and laboratory department is located in Svolvær. Following a proposal from the Directorate of Fisheries and a recommendation from the State Consultant, the Ministry of Fisheries has decided that the regional management should be grouped in Bodø. The lab will stay in Svolvær. It will lead too far here and now to go into detail about how the process has been carried out. However, on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, I can assure you that the employees and their organisations have had the opportunity to influence the process through conversations, meetings and recordings. The participation of employees has been a prerequisite for a good profit or loss. It can be briefly mentioned that representatives from the Central Fisheries Directorate and the Regional Director of the Nordic Region carried out a comprehensive review of the services offered by the EEA in January 1999. In this context, discussions with employees in Svolvær were also conducted. In its subsequent work on Report 2000:6 ‘Organisation of the external fisheries network with proposals for the reorganisation of the regions of More and Romesdal and Nordland’, State Consultant met with most employees in More and Romesdal and Nordland. State Consultant also had meetings with the trustees of the organisations. The Statskonsult’s report was sent out at the hearing of the employees’ organisations. In addition, I can inform you that at a regional assembly for all employees in Northern Ireland, various aspects of the reorganisation of the external establishment were discussed, including the assembly of the region office in Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1409	I can't see that I got an answer to the question, but nevertheless I thank you now for the answer. Following my question on 25 October, the employees at the Svolvær Regional Office sent an open letter to the Minister for Fisheries, where they pointed out that they had not been taken on board. As a result, the head of the branch in Bergen, the chief executive, sent a written correction and instructed the regional director in Bodø to punish the employees in Svolvær. I'll quote: ‘The Quality, Control and Regional Management Department finds the method and choice of words used as very regrettable and hopes that, in the future, it will be possible to find solutions together through the processes taking place within the building. The department asks the Regional Director to take this up with the employees of Svolvær, who are behind the letter as soon as possible, so that this does not recur.’ There is a strange form of democracy being exercised here, when representatives who are being affected raise a question that refers to a question in the Question Time. Is this a practice that the Government follows in all matters? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1424	The President asks the representative of Bastesen to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1427	It will be known that the Government has great ambitions in terms of changes, modernisation and renewal of the public sector. If we're going to get to that, we're totally dependent on good cooperation with the people added through the trusted ones, and the government will put great emphasis on that, and put great emphasis on it. With regard to the letter from which the representative Bastesen referred, on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, I would like to point out the following: the Fisheries Administration does not want to put a mouthpiece on the staff. What will be at the heart of the fisheries management system as for other government units is to facilitate the emergence of initiatives and views so that they can be involved in shaping a positive process, especially when establishments are undergoing change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1437	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1440	I have asked the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The Ministry of Fisheries has proposed to award new salmon concessions in accordance with the principle of ‘simultaneous increasing auction’ and it is proposed to introduce an area charge. Income is included in the 2001 State budget. The proposal for the area charge is a new principle, and it is worrying that the State is charging land which does not belong to the State. Is not the Council of State concerned about the introduction of a new administrative regime that is contrary to the rights of all persons and what is being done to clarify this issue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1449	It is true that the Ministry of Fisheries will grant new authorisations for the breeding of edible fish of salmon and trout in 2001. It is not true that the Ministry of Fisheries has proposed that this should be done in accordance with the principle of ‘simultaneous ascending auction’. Nor is it correct, as the representative Bastisen claims, that the Ministry of Fisheries has proposed the introduction of an area charge for the farming industry. Much has been said and written about the upcoming round of allocations. The question to the representative of Bastesen shows that there may be a need to provide some information on the content of the Ministry of Fisheries proposal. There is a broad political consensus that part of the growth of salmon and trout in the future is being taken out in the award of new concessions. The government’s view is that society should receive a fair share of the value of the new concessions and, in this respect, a remuneration should be paid for the award. However, it is important that we set clear targets for what we will achieve with the allocation and that these targets are reflected in the requirements we attach to the new concessions. The Ministry of Fisheries aims to allocate a limited number of new concessions regularly in the future. In 2001, it will include, among others: particular attention will be paid to the allocation of concessions to areas currently low in aquaculture activity. This will be an important step in triggering the high value creation potential of the aquaculture industry, by making use of larger parts of the coast. This will also benefit District Norway. As regards the area tax issue, this has been raised in the debate, among other things. as an indication that the host municipalities should receive income in the form of an area charge. This has to be considered in greater detail and a thorough investigation has to be undertaken as a basis for political treatment. One has to consider, inter alia, as the representative Bastesen points out, more detailed legal and political issues related to the use of the coastal zone. Furthermore, the economic and administrative implications for business and for the public must be investigated. With regard to the representative’s reference to ‘simultaneous ascending auction’, a concept that is unknown to most people, I think it is from St.prp. No 1, Tax, Fee and Customs Decisions, where in Box 5.1 on page 96 there is a general orientation on different types of auction, and thus not directly linked to the Ministry of Fisheries proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1467	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is precisely from the state budget that I have picked up the expression ‘simultaneous ascending auction’, and if you are not to read it in the context of what it is actually written about in connection with auctions and salmon concessions, you have to read the state budget in the same way that the hell reads the Bible. At least those who have read it have perceived it in the same way as me. Starting to auction sea areas that the state does not actually own is the introduction of a new principle, without debate, and I have to point out that it is not allowed by the state. We need to get such a case to the Stortinget for a broad treatment so that you can discuss the principles, because if we are going so far as to start auctioning off sea areas, there is virtually nothing in the way that anyone who has really much money can buy up the entire Norwegian economic zone. Then we're on wild roads. I want to ask the Council of State, is that the way you're going?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1474	The President has some doubts about the wording of the representative Steinar Bastesen. At least the president's sure the storeroom isn't a fucking arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1477	I can clearly reassure the representative Bastesen that it is not in the directions he was finally in, the government wants to develop neither the marine industry nor the Norwegian community. There are, as I said in my main answer, many questions that require further investigation, and to which the Ministry of Fisheries will come back. With regard to the issue of different auction forms, I would just like to point out that there are also other things to auction away than breeding concessions, for example. concessions to operate second generation mobile phone systems, including TV concessions. So there's a general mention of different auction methods that have been included in St. prp. No 1 and whether they are to apply to one or more of those concession types, the Government will return.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1504	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1510	This question, from the representative of Mr Hedstrom to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1513	I have a question for the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The population of the outermost Oslofjord has never been larger, while the resource availability of fish, especially in the eastern parts of the fjord, has been greatly reduced. The results of the last census show that there are 450 to 500 animals in the Heia area, while there are 2,200 animals in the Koster area. There is a great need for increased taxation. Will the Council of State be in favour of a significant increase in the rate of fall of sales in the Oslofjord area next year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1522	In recent years, researchers have recommended annual allowances for coastlines based mainly on an off-take of 5 pst. of the countable part of the individual populations. Quota fixing has partly met strong resistance from fishermen and hunters, since the perception has been that the quotas have been set too low in relation to the actual stock of seals. However, the Ministry of Fisheries has increased its quotas, bearing in mind that the stock of seals poses problems in relation to fishing and aquaculture activities. The increase has been partially made as a general increase of 20 pst. in all regions in 1999 and as a special recommendation of 30 pst. in areas where specific problems are documented in relation to fisheries and aquaculture in 2000. With regard to the Oslofjord area, problems were not sufficiently documented in the current year to ensure that the quota should be increased. There are now data from coastal zones censuses in 1999. These show a population of 289 animals in Eastfold and 61 animals in Westfold. This is an increase in relation to the stock estimate used in the quota setting for 2000. However, there is a relatively large cell population on the Swedish side, which can give large variations in the numbering material. New censuses are planned in this area in 2001, with the aim of coordinating such censuses with Swedish researchers. As regards the quotas for 2001, these will be determined by the Directorate of Fisheries, based on biological advice. However, taking into account the fact that new and higher numbers are now available for stone copper in the area concerned, there is a need for an increase in the quota. In setting the quota, the Directorate-General for Fisheries will also take into account the fact that seals in the area pose some serious problems in relation to fishing and aquaculture activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1537	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The interpretation of it is clear that there will be an increase in the quota. The question is just how far you want to go. Regional Director Birger Larsen of the Directorate of Fisheries said in an opinion the other day to Fredrikstad Blad that it is unproblematic to increase the tax to 50 animals per year. So there's a representative from the Directorate of Fisheries who says. The sale is also now organised with a hunting team that works satisfactorily, after the information I have obtained. Does the Council agree with the Regional Director’s opinion that an increase in the cutting quota for 50 animals could be implemented as an appropriate tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1542	As I said in my main response, the quotas for sales in 2001 will be fixed as soon as the biological recommendation is available. As mentioned above, it facilitates an increase in the quota because, inter alia: is available for new and higher numbers of stone copper in the area concerned. With regard to the recommendations made by the Regional Director, I believe these will be included in the final assessment of the quota conclusion for the 2001 marketing year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1552	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In the context of the Sixth Conference of the Parties to the Hague Convention, the question of what to define as ‘demonstrate progress’ by 2005 will follow Art. [[COP 6]] 3.2, be discussed. There is disagreement between the central negotiating parties. Would Norway agree that demonstrable progress should not only focus on the institutional and legal framework, but include the implementation of concrete climate action to ensure compliance with the Kyoto obligations during the period 2008 to 2012?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1561	Demonstratable progress by 2005 is one of many themes negotiated in The Hague. First of all, this is done in connection with the discussions on the information to be reported from developed countries, Article 7, and how this information is to be reviewed, Article 8. The provisions to this effect are based on existing procedures under the UNFCCC and shall cover all types of obligations, including reporting of instruments and measures, as well as trends in emissions. So far, one has seen to a limited extent what individual countries put in the provision on demonstrable progress by 2005. Norway, of course, participates in the discussions on this issue. This provision is formulated in a general way in the Kyoto Protocol. Norway will therefore use a broad interpretation. We have expressed this earlier in the negotiations, and it is also the basis of our positions in The Hague. Our primary understanding of the provision is that it includes both the launch of concrete climate action and the preparation of such action, including through the development of legislation. The government is actively working on various measures to ensure that Norway meets the commitments under the Kyoto Protocol, including making demonstrable progress by 2005. Norway is one of the first countries to adopt a national strategy for the follow-up to the Protocol. I consider the establishment of a national quota system as a decisive measure to demonstrate demonstrable progress by 2005 because the quota system will be a manageable tool to ensure that Norway complies with its emissions obligations. The Government intends to incorporate the national allowance system into the law in good time before 2005, even if the commitment period begins only from 2008. The government will come back with a more detailed review of how the commitments to demonstrate demonstrable progress by 2005 will be followed up, in a key communication on the future climate policy that will be presented in spring 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1572	I thank the Minister for the answer. At least it is positive that she now goes a little further than she has done before, saying that she believes that this paragraph interpretation also implies concrete implementation of measures. What I'm after, however, is what the government will say as positions in The Hague. Do you want to go in order for countries to take action and that it will be the interpretation that is being carried out? Because we know that the United States wants demonstrable progress to be only the institutional and legal framework, while the EU – at least a good part of the EU countries, even though the positions there are not quite clear yet – are on a line where they want more visible and implemented actions. It is important here that Norway, even if it is part of the umbrella group, is really willing to have a negotiating position that supports clear and demonstrable progress and that it does so by implementing measures, in addition to the institutional conditions of the Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1581	I cannot see any disagreement between Hilde Frafjord Johnson and myself in understanding how 'demonstratable progress' is to be interpreted under the Kyoto Protocol. I thought it was important to give a picture of the international negotiations because so far in this area there was no major disagreement between the countries. But Norway will, of course, express what I said in my reply, that the provision should be understood in terms of both measures and framework conditions and legislation as the basis for action. It is very important that Norway has an opinion of this in the international negotiations, and that is what I gave a picture of now. Here we want to express our vision. But it is also important, of course, that we follow this up in our own national strategy, and I have also explained it in relation to the processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1591	I allow myself to also ask the next question to the Minister for the Environment – these questions are related: ‘In the context of the Sixth Conference of the Parties to the Hague, the issue of a ‘ceiling’ for the use of flexible implementation mechanisms will be central. [[COP 6]] Will Norway, during the negotiations, work to ensure that the flexible mechanisms are complementary to national measures, and will it agree to such a ceiling?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1600	Under the Kyoto Protocol, the use of the flexible implementation mechanisms should be complementary to national measures. What is being discussed is how to clarify the requirement of complementarity. Like the previous government, Norway, under the current government, will not go in for a quantitative cap on the use of the Kyoto mechanisms in this respect. Norway is in favour of an assessment of the country’s compliance with the complementarity requirement based on a qualitative review of its policies and instruments. Procedures for the reporting and review of information under the UNFCCC have already been established on which one can build in this respect. In the negotiations, the EU has proposed several concrete formulas to set a quantitative ceiling on the use of the flexible implementation mechanisms. At the same time, the EU itself has agreed to a bubble in which they actually imagine trading in allowances between EU countries without quantitative limits. For many countries outside the EU, it is considered unreasonable if there should be a quantitative cap on general quota trade, while it should not be on intra-EU trade. A major discussion on this will therefore help to delay and delay the important implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. Although no quantitative ceiling is set on the use of the flexible implementation mechanisms, Norway will, of course, base itself on the Kyoto Protocol, which states that the flexible implementation mechanisms should be complementary to national measures. A significant part of the emission reductions that will be necessary to meet the obligation will be implemented in Norway. This policy will be put into practice by means of the Green Paper on climate policy, which we aim to present in the spring of 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1611	The previous government had its climate policy built on three main pillars. The first was that the main emphasis of action should be taken at home, in other words a kind of national ceiling on the use of flexible implementation mechanisms. The second was the desire to make demonstrable progress by 2005, and the third was to address flexible mechanisms. In order to achieve a cost-effective impact on the use of flexible mechanisms, it is essential to do the other two things, i.e. to make demonstrable progress and to take the main weight of the measures at home. That's what makes me worried about the answer from the Minister for the Environment. If you're in a situation where you don't make it clear that you're taking the main weight of the measures at home, and it might look like Siri Bjerke may not be willing to commit to it, according to an article in Today's Business yesterday, we're at risk of a situation where it can be fully released, and where we don't get effectively feasible flexible mechanisms. That is the background for me asking questions about whether we should not change the position and go in by roof.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1616	I'm a little surprised if Hilde Frafjord Johnson now says, is the expression of a changed position from the Christian People's Party and possibly the centre team in the view of the roof. After all, a majority comment was agreed in Stortinget on the handling of the State Environmental Statement no later than one month ago. Personally, I place great emphasis on what former Environment Minister Guro Fjellanger says in an article in Today's Business today. It is still valid in my opinion. She says that: ‘an attempt at numerical fixing could lead to very extensive and difficult negotiation rounds which would take longer to reach agreement on a final text’. As I said, I agree with this and believe that we do not have that time. We must work to get a result from the Hague negotiations that will enable us to implement the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1632	I will be allowed to ask a very timely question to the Minister for Agriculture: «In 1994, a man now 60 years old acquired the Finsrud Nordre farm in the municipality of Gausdal. A few months later he became seriously ill. He is now dissatisfied and awaits lung transplantation. The Agriculture Director has taken the view that income needs to be generated outside the farm. The house is in bad shape. Nevertheless, the County Agriculture Board chose to maintain housing obligations. It may not be the intention of the law to oblige a seriously ill person to move to an uninhabitable use requiring extra work. Will the Council of State reverse the decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1641	After I have gained experience, the matter is about Nils Bergsjordet, who took over the property in question under forced auction in 1994. The acquisition was concession-free because he had no right to property. The grandfather of the mountain earth has owned the property, and his mother is born and raised there. It follows directly from the law of nobility that the person who acquires property to which he has no right has an obligation to reside on the property within one year. In other words, there is no obligation to live in this case in particular. Under the law of no part of the land, an exemption may be granted either wholly or for a certain period of time. The decision-making authority has been delegated to the municipality. The County Agriculture Board is the Board of Appeal. The mountain soil has previously been applied for and had an exemption from the obligation to live for five years until 17 March 2000. The reason for this was that he would have the opportunity to repair the houses on the property. Due to health reasons, Bergsjordet applied on 25 February of this year for a permanent exemption from the obligation to live. The municipality decided to postpone residence until 30 June 2002. On 2 October 2000, the County Agriculture Council decided, following a complaint, to maintain the municipality’s decision. In the case of an application for exemption from the obligation to live, Section 27(a) of the Act of Use requires, inter alia, that: take into account the size and yield of the use and the housing conditions. In addition, particular attention shall be paid to the applicant’s connection to the property. One may take into account the desire to strengthen and maintain the residence in the area where the property is located. I am aware that the property in question cannot provide full-time employment for the owner, and that it is currently not habitable. With a driving time to Lillehammer at approx. However, 30 minutes will be good outside work. Based on this background and on the fact that increased housing is a bet area in the municipality of Gausdal, I share the view of the municipality and the county agriculture board that the property should be inhabited by the owner. I also agree that in this case, the applicant’s relationship should not go ahead with the purpose of the residence. The evaluation of an application for an exemption from living shall pay particular attention to the life situation of the applicant. However, it is not that a difficult life situation provides the basis for permanent exemptions. An assessment must be made of whether an additional deferral in a case such as this is a reasonable alternative. I have noticed that the local authorities, referring to the health situation of Bergs soil, have given him another two years of suspension from living to look at his situation. As I understand the treatment of the case by the municipality and the county Agriculture Council, they are prepared to consider further exemptions beyond the seven years already granted, when the exemption period is over. I believe this is a reasonable solution based on the fact that it is a property that is well suited as a place of residence when the houses are being repaired. I find no reason to reverse the decision after what I said before. I add that there need to be specific reasons to intervene in a specific case where the decision has been delegated to the municipality and county agricultural board. I also point out that this is a case type in which consideration for local self-government should be given to. This is the result of Section 34 of the Administrative Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1667	I am aware that there must be specific reasons why the Council of State should react to what is going on in local administration. But that's why we have state councils and warrants to intervene if there's any particular reason. Paragraph 27 of the Odel Act is clarifyingly clear as to the obligation to move to a property that is occupied by no part. There's no disagreement about that. Paragraph 27(a) of the Odel Act has four points to be weighted, and then there is one point that can be weighted. The three points to be added to the weight, use size, profitability and household conditions speak in favor of him. The Agriculture Director clearly says that this farm is small – 40 full-grown deer – there is limited profitability and housing conditions are miserable. Does the Council of State consider this decision to be reasonable in the legal capacity of general peoples?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1676	As I said at the outset, this is a kind of decision that has been delegated to the municipality, because there may be different assessments in different municipalities about how much emphasis there is on the housing issue. In my opinion, it is quite clear that this type of property, which is as close to such a large city as Lillehammer, is well suited to ensure the settlement in a municipality like Gausdal. Gausdal has a very conscious relationship to this. It is fully possible to repair a house, establish a residence and obtain a certain income from the property, and it is also fully possible to obtain income outside the use by having a large labour market in reasonable proximity. So in my opinion, this is in no way such a special case that it is natural for the Council of State to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1681	Then we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1687	This question, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1690	‘In January 2001, four years have elapsed since the Joint Committee’s inquiry. Lack of clarification about the rights of Finnmark land and water leads to existing conflict lines among the population about who should possess the rights, and also creates difficulties for natural industries, because there will be a rough uncertainty about the assumptions that will apply to the future development of nutrition. Will the Prime Minister contribute to the Joint Committee’s investigation being finalised by the Stortinget as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1697	The Joint Committee gave its second interim position to the Ministry of Justice in January 1997. NOU 1997:4 ‘The natural basis of Sami culture’ concerns the rights and administration of Finnland and the protection of traditional Sami uses throughout the country. The investigation is very extensive and was sent out at wide consultation and with an extended consultation period. The general deadline for the opinion expired on 1 March 1999, while the Sametinget, Finnmark County and Departments were due until 1 October 1999. The consultation material is comprehensive and has required a thorough review as a starting point for further work on the matter. The Ministry of Justice is preparing a bill for follow-up to the investigation. The work involves several other departments, and there will also be contact with Finnmark County and Sametinget with a view to providing the best possible basis for the Government's decisions and then proposals for the Stortinget in the case. Both Sametinget and Finnmark County have been informally briefed on the progress plans. It is undoubtedly desirable to complete justice and administration in Finland as quickly as possible. The matter is comprehensive and difficult, and precisely because it is so important both for the Sami interests and for the entire population of Finnmark, the government's treatment must be thorough. It is therefore too early today to specify the time when the legislative proposal on the matter can be promoted for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1706	I thank you for your courtesy for the answer, which I find totally unsatisfactory. The government deals with this matter as a labyrinth of international law, as it is, and does just like the labyrinth: you walk around it. It is clear that here one goes like the cat around the hot pot, when the entire population of Finnmark, including the Sametinget and the county ring, is waiting for an answer in the matter. As I have explained in the question, this also hampers the development of businesses in a state that is now experiencing great relocation, which is experiencing major problems with the creation of new jobs. Both the current chairman Sven-Roald Nystø and Ole Henrik Magga have made it clear that the matter needs to be resolved. Whatever the outcome of this case, it's what Finnmark's population is waiting for. I had hoped that the Prime Minister could have answered the case, because I consider it important. You have to be able to specify some time perspectives here. What I've got under hand is that it can take three to four years. Can the Minister of Justice confirm that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1715	This is a major and difficult work, it also shows the period of time spent by the Joint Court Committee itself in investigating this, and to the extent that the time it is expected that the new Joint Court Committee, which will look at the rest of Norway, will have to spend. This says something about how difficult these questions are. There is no lack of desire to keep moving, it is simply a matter of these are difficult questions. It's not always that jumping to a conclusion is the best way to get to the best solutions. We work continuously, there are people in the Ministry of Justice who are constantly working on this matter. It's not a matter of depriority, it's a matter of getting it done properly. And I can neither confirm nor cancel the time horizons that the representative of Ballo has heard. But I can confirm to this extent that the review of the hearing opinions will probably be clear around New Year's, and that we will then make contact with Finnmark County and the Sameting on the basis of it for further progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1722	So we go to question 35.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1728	I have the honour to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘By means of an agreement between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence, police officers trained in command are no longer to be mobilised in the Defence but in the Police Service. As a result, the police force is losing the opportunity to train its staff through the defense, and the defense is losing well-motivated and trained command. Will the Council of State take the initiative to review this agreement so that police officers trained in command can be mobilised in the Defence Force?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1737	In 1998, the overview showed that 3,780 police officers of an operational strength of 4,800 are released for mobilization, i.e. 80 pst. by the operational training strength. The total number of police officers was about that time. Seven hundred and seven hundred. This means a strong deterioration in the ability of the police to solve their tasks by mobilising them. Both civil and military elements base their contingency plans on the task of the police, thereby facilitating the optimum impact of their contribution to the overall defence. Following today's arrangement, the police shall provide defence officers with the mobilization to such an extent that the police are seized for the crew resources required to perform this task in the overall defence. In particular, it has been decided, by agreement between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence, that permanent staff of police officers with no military mandate will be exempted from attendance by mobilization from the 2001 mobilization deadline. Police officers with military mandates are also mainly exempted from attendance from the 2001 mobilization deadline, but exemptions have been made for officials in key key positions. The Ministry of Defence has decided, in consultation with the Ministry of Justice, that 150 police officers continue to be mobilised. This framework is based on an assessment of police tasks and the need for human resources in the event of mobilisation and is in line with the future needs of police officers trained in command. On this basis, in my opinion, there is no need to reconsider the agreement with the Ministry of Defence on the mobilization exemption for police officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1755	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘It has been recorded from several media reports that allegations of alleged sexual assault have been cleared up or that time limits for complaints have not been met by police and police lawyers. The cases are settled by the Advocate General as a result. Does the Council of State consider this type of case to be adequately dealt with, and what will it do to those officials who do not follow the ‘legal security procedures’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1764	It is not acceptable, of course, that matters should be resolved or that time limits should not be met by police and prosecution authorities. However, I would first of all like to say that I have no reason to believe that the prosecution's handling of criminal cases is by no means reassuring. Nevertheless, it is exceptional that mistakes are made. For this reason, there are incorporated procedures for the right to appeal and the possibility of a decision being converted. Where an error may be attributed to the cause of complaint by the individual case handler responsible, it is up to the individual principal or head of institution of the prosecution authority to provide adequate personnel policy measures, where necessary with disciplinary measures. The question raised by the representative Stang concerns the prosecution of complaints of decisions taken by the prosecution authority in specific criminal proceedings. This is an area governed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, chaired by the Advocate General. I have been in contact with the Riksadvokat, as among others. has indicated that the State Attorney's Office has taken the view that under the Criminal Procedures Act an absolute period of three months is required for the conversion of an appeal decision to the disadvantage of the defendant. That period shall begin on the day on which the decision was taken. This understanding has already been expressed in a circular issued by the Riksadvokat in 1996. Furthermore, the Riksadvokat has pronounced to me: ‘The Advocate General regrets that failure of the Public Prosecutor’s Office has repeatedly led to the Court of Appeal becoming illusory in that the Supreme Prosecutor’s Office has received the case after the expiry of the period of conversion. By letter dated 23 October to all police officers and state attorneys, the national lawyer has tightened up the rules of time. The importance of having good practice in these matters has also been emphasised from this point of view in the past.» After the issue was raised in the media, the understanding of the Criminal Procedure Act at this point has also been assessed by the Department of Justice. For its part, the Legal Service assumes that the legislation in force does not prevent the substance of a complaint lodged within the three-month period, even if the appeal comes only to the overall prosecution authority after the expiry of that period. Professor Johs, too. Second instance, in its last edition of ‘Norwegian Criminal Procedure’, which has just been delivered, states that a change may take place in the Board of Appeal after the expiry of the three-month period. Against this background, I will take the initiative of clarifying. First of all, I would like to send to the hearing proposals for a possible amendment of the law. Through the hearing, we will be informed of the cross-cutting interests behind the complaint procedure and the rule on protection against the conversion of orders. With this scheme, a legislative amendment proposal can be put forward in time for the Storting to be dealt with in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1782	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say that the last thing I was very pleased with was that she signaled that she would come back with her own case in the area – it is necessary. At first, I had the feeling that the Council of State was demeaning a little bit around this. It is not exceptional that such matters appear. There are too many of them in my opinion. A complaint against a criminal offence may not be dealt with by the prosecution's severance or mess. It seems unreasonable, in my view, that errors made by a State attorney lead to an insult not being dealt with by a complaint when the complaint has been made in due time. The law is probably not quite clear when you reject a complaint by using Section 75 of the Criminal Procedures Act, which sets an absolute barrier to conversion. On the other hand, Section 59(a) of the same law opens so that the order can be converted. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State clear up these contradictions so that the law takes more account of the offended party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1791	It was not my intention to minimize that things were being messed up or not treated the way they should. A matter that is dealt with like this is too much. There's no doubt about it. It is precisely because I have seen the negative consequences of the practice that has been carried out, the combination of errors and rules, which means that I believe that we should present proposals for a legislative change that we send to the hearing as soon as practicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1801	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘Recently, in a judgment, Agder has stated that the laser gun as a measuring instrument does not hold a measure. The UP in Agder now thinks it's irresponsible to use lasers. But the police in, among other things, Fredrikstad will continue to use the laser gun in speed measurements. On the other hand, does the Council of State consider it appropriate that a laser gun should be used by the police in the future, and does she want a similar practice for the whole country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1810	The answer is yes to both questions, but I will explain it in more detail. In the autumn of 1993, the Ministry of Justice approved laser speedometer, laser LTI 20.20, for use in police traffic control following an investigation by a working group set up by the Ministry of Justice. The working group paid particular attention to reports and evidence of qualification from research institutions both in Germany, Sweden and Norway. In addition, practical method testing of laser LTI 20.20 was carried out by the Norwegian police. Along with the approval of laser LTI 20.20, an instruction was also developed for the use of laser speed indicators and a user manual. The courts have approved laser measurement as evidence in cases where measurement has been carried out using laser LTI 20.20. In order to ensure external control, an intentional agreement has been concluded with the Adjustervesen as the overall control body for metrological material in the police and officers’ seats. This Agreement applies to laser speed indicators. After the agreement, the Adjustervesen shall, inter alia: type-approval of such appliances. The same applies to inspections for the first time and annual periodic checks. In addition, cases where this apparatus has been used may be submitted to the Adjustervesen for expert opinion. The Public Prosecutor's Office has used everything Adjustervesen on this occasion. Quality assurance has been an overall objective of the Ministry for the review of laser speed indicators in terms of training, use and instruction and quality assurance. For this reason, the number of instructors in the police department has been reduced from approx. 50 to 11. This has been done to improve the quality of training. In addition, teaching material has changed and own user guidance has been developed. Thus, users shall be familiar with possible user errors which may affect the measurement result. Last but not least, the Ministry has requested that the number of users of laser navigation gauges be limited in the police districts. This is also in order to ensure a high level of safety in the use of laser speed indicators. On the basis of this, I believe the laser speedometer meets the requirements that you can make for the use of this as a measuring instrument in speed matters, and I see no reason to stop the use. Based on user instructions and instructions, there shall be no reason for different practices in the use of laser speed indicators. For the sake of order, I can inform you that the UP in Agder again uses laser speedometer for speed checks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1827	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true, as I've also heard, that you've resumed this with laser measurement. However, the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law states that when a method of measurement is used in which there is so much limited scope for re-examination of facts of importance, the reliability of the laser measurement is called into question and that evidence or doubt as a result should be brought to the attention of the person in question. It's not the first time I have this question up. I have also had it up earlier in the measurement of motorcyclists. The Progress Party and the Norwegian Motorcycle Union have previously stated that this is not a reliable measuring instrument because, in our opinion, there is something essential missing. In our opinion, in order to ensure legal certainty, it is appropriate to install video cameras on the laser so that the measurement can be documented in the future and that the correct use of the laser can also be demonstrated. I don't know if the Council of State agrees with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1836	It is clear from my first answer that I am first concerned with ensuring the quality of the laser measurements, but that at the same time I believe that the measures that have been taken help to ensure the quality well enough that it can still be used as a good speed measurement tool in the Norwegian police department. We also have the courts, in general, as a review body of whether this is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1844	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘With increased government promises, the Government’s objective is to reduce parental payments in the nursery sector. What measures will the Council of State take if this provision is not followed up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1853	The government believes that kindergartens are the best educational supervision that children can have when they are not with their parents. It is therefore also essential that the parental benefit does not prevent children from using kindergartens. Compared to other countries, the price for a kindergarten in Norway is very, very high. This includes, among other things: OECD referenced. We like to compare ourselves with Sweden, and there they are in the process of introducing maximum prices for a nursery place. About NOK 1 100 will be the highest rate of parental payment for one child, and that's a level that we know is significantly below Norwegian. The issue of a state regulation of the parental payment was raised in the context of the kindergarten notification. I perceive that there is a broad political consensus that the way to go in the first place is not such a state directive. In the current situation, maximum rates will mean a reduction in the freedom of action and, in many cases, a very difficult economic situation for some private kindergartens. However, a majority of the Grand Duchy has asked the Government to assess the requirement for reduced parental pay, graduated rates and siblings when the state grant to the kindergartens increases. Of course, that's something I want to have with me, when I follow up on whether the increased state support actually leads to a reduced parental payment. In order to achieve the important objective of lower parental pay, the Government will work to increase public funding for the kindergarten sector. In examining the notification of kindergartens, the Workers' Party received broad support for its proposal to increase the State share of the funding of the sector. The size decided that the country should cover 50 pst by 2005. of the costs, the municipalities 30 pst. and the parents 20 pst. That way, the parent payment could go down. In order to achieve this goal, there will be a need to escalate both the state and the municipality over the next four years. Through our budget for 2001, we have proposed to increase the State grant rates for kindergartens by 4.3 pst. for children over three years of age, and 6.3 pst. for children under three years of age. This increase will compensate for the price increase of all grant rates and provide a real increase in the rates for children under three years of age. The financial reporting from the last few years shows that there is still a piece before the municipalities reach the desired target of 30 p.m. local co-financing. The government will therefore encourage municipalities to support the kindergarten sector to a greater extent than is the case today. This applies in particular to financial support for private kindergartens. The figures from 1998 show that the municipalities covered at the lower edge of 8 pst. of costs in the private sector, against 30 pst. in municipal kindergartens. When we then know that there are many places higher parental payments in private kindergartens than in municipal areas, it is obvious that increased municipal efforts could help reduce parental pay in this sector. In the future, the government will work for a proposal to introduce an obligation for municipalities to provide nursery facilities for the parents who want it. An obligation, together with increased government grants and a very strong call for municipalities to take responsibility for ensuring their citizens this welfare asset, are the instruments that the Government, and the Stortinget, will initially implement. If it turns out that these instruments are not sufficient, and that the level of parental pay is still too high, there must be no doubt that this government and our department will consider taking concrete action. In conclusion, I would like to say that I assume quite clearly that the earmarked state subsidy is just going to the nursery sector, and with regard to some of the examples we have received from Kommune-Norway in the last days, I would say that the parental payment cannot increase to such an extent as these show. Finally, I would like to remind you that the municipalities in our draft state budget have received a substantial increase in the free income, and then we have to assume that the municipalities, and not just the state, are serving a fully developed kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1879	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer – and it's probably not like a big shock that I'm along with everything she said. Full babysitting is only when there are enough places at a price that people can handle. When people have to pay 4000–5000 kroner a month without income grade and sibling moderation, many people are unable to do so. When the municipality of Gæsdal now suggests 10 pst. increase in parental pay, so increases government support for it, and not for parents. It can also go to owners who are unable to pay off their debts and who increase their bets instead of allowing the increase to benefit their parents. So we get more money from the state -- that's what we're dealing with here. We should get more money from the municipality of this sector, which both encourages us and provides us with the free resources. However, if this does not lead to a reduction in parental pay, the Council of State says it will consider other and more concrete measures. And I could really like to hear what the relevant measures she was thinking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1886	The President shall assure Agent Ausdal Starrfeld that at least he was not shocked.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1892	It may be that the minister too would have been very surprised and shocked if the representative had disagreed in this field. It is very gratifying that we were able to reach such a broad political consensus when we dealt with the kindergarten announcement in ours. I believe that this has laid a very important foundation for the effort we are going to have in the time that is coming. But the situation is that Stortinget is totally dependent on local authorities and private actors taking their responsibility seriously. It is not the state and the ministry that are going to build the kindergartens. The municipalities themselves shall do so, and the private actors shall do so. Our objective must be to provide good framework conditions, so that this is possible. I believe that with the arrangement made by the committee through the suspension, where the state takes its responsibility and goes into it with more funds, we could have a basis for reducing the parental payment. There has been a long time principle about a third, between parents, state and municipality, where the municipalities would take 30 pst. The concrete measure I want to assess is to use the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1906	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘Lvgal Markets Association wants to organise three nightly Fridays, in line with the cultural traditions of the village, until 3.00 p.m. 24.00, instead of three working days open on Sundays, as the opening time laws allow. The county has for the second consecutive year said no to such a derogation. Will the Council of State amend this refusal, if necessary, if necessary, to initiate a legislative or regulatory change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1915	The Liggal market association’s applications for exemption from the general opening hours of the opening time law to hold traditional Christmas celebrations have been dealt with in the ministry as complaints both last year and this year. In both cases, the department confirmed the decision of the county council. The opening time law of 26 June 1998 establishes a uniform opening time framework for the whole country. The law of opening hours gives businesses the opportunity to stay open until 1 p.m. 9 p.m. on weekdays and until 9 p.m. 18.00 days before Sundays and holidays. On Sundays and public holidays, outlets covered by the Opening Time Act shall, as a general rule, be closed. However, points of sale can stay open between 2:00 a.m. 2 p.m. and 2 p.m. 8:00 a.m. the last three Sundays before Christmas Eve. The background to this proposal, to which the Stortinget agreed, was to legislate a practice that had evolved, with Sunday-open shops in December. This was generally expected to reduce the need for exemptions. It is such that the county can grant a derogation under Section 4 of the Opening Time Act if there are specific reasons. What is contained in the term «special reasons» is shown in the notes to Section 4 of Ot.prp. No 75 for 1996-97 on the law opening hours for outlets. This is expressed, inter alia, in terms of: the following: ‘The wording ‘special reasons’ could include different circumstances that may also vary from district to district. Major events, such as sporting championships, jubilee, et cetera, markets, and so on, affecting all or large parts of a municipality or district, could form the basis for exemption. The same applies to periodically recurring events such as calls for tourist ships and annual fisheries, which are of great economic importance to a municipality or district. A derogation may also be granted for smaller events such as the ‘day of trade’ or the marking of a special event for a point of sale, such as 5, 10 and 25th anniversary etc. However, such events should normally not be allowed on Sundays and holidays. Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location. The Ministry proposes to legislate the practice that has developed with Sunday open outlets in December to wind up the Christmas trade. This is expected to reduce the need for exemptions in general.’» This has been said by Stortinget. It follows that there must be a specific justification for each application. If the county finds that the legal requirements for ‘special reasons’ are met, it will be based on a judgement of the county whether a derogation should be granted. However, the law does not open so that one can exchange one or more Sundays before Christmas with a night opener at another/other time. That's how we interpret Storting's decision. These include: noticing that the legislator has not found that it would legislate longer opening hours on weekdays in connection with the Christmas trade, but has legislated the right to remain open the last three Sundays before Christmas Eve. Thus, the legislator has assessed in particular the need for longer opening hours in connection with Christmas activities/trafficking. The Ministry has not granted exemptions in order to be able to keep open beyond the general opening hours of Christmas trade, Christmas markets, Christmas branding and Christmas opening/flashing. I would like to stress that a number of the activities that characterise the Christmas opening are not affected by the law and can happen regardless of the opening hours of the shops. The Ministry has confirmed and confirmed that, in this specific case, the county has taken a proper decision against the Lwigal market association, as interpreted by law in the light of the decisions taken by the Stortinget. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that my predecessor, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, made a similar decision in a case exactly a year ago. Of course, I have a responsibility to follow up and enforce the decisions taken by the Stortinget. There is a basis for this matter. I want to say that it must be important that, in future cases, we exercise a great deal of discretion and rationality in the practice of this law. For the time being, I would like to call very, very clearly my own office for a discretionary and sensible enforcement of the law. I think it would be unreasonable for us to get an A4 treatment on this issue that will not be seen as logical in the Norwegian population. I hope that the representative Lilletun understands the concerns I have to take in relation to the clear decisions taken by the Stortinget, but I would say very clearly to the representative that I will take an initiative to review and evaluate the scheme so far, and look at how the law has worked in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1951	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and will be happy to give me the last part of the answer. The first part was in itself okay, too, because it was an interpretation of the law that I find no reason to say anything about. What is clear after this is that the Council of State will have a review of this and will also consider whether it is possible to grant such exemptions when good grounds are given. I believe that when adding, the business class itself and the audience thought it was nice to be able to act late on a Friday night and have the Sunday as a sleep day, it is very difficult to make people understand that there is no possibility. I believe that the Council of State will try to find a solution that can give a result that the Lwightal Market Association wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1958	That is quite correctly perceived by the representative Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1966	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘Minimum asylum seekers remain much longer on asylum recipients than the three months set aside. Findings from the reception indicate that many of these children need closer follow-up and more help than they get today. The age range for the children is currently 4-18 years. Fear The children propose that the reception for children should be given the status of child protection institutions. What will the Council of State do to ensure professional quality and competence, resources and legal certainty for these children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1975	The question from the representative Molvær Grimstad is addressed to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The answer is designed in cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which is responsible for all refugees and asylum seekers living on the asylum recipients, including single minors. I fully agree with the representative Molvær Grimstad that it is regrettable that the length of the stay in reception is much longer than is foreseen. The situation of lone minors in reception is not good enough today, and the aim is to improve their situation. This will be done by the Government and will promote proposals in this area in the comprehensive communication on asylum and refugee policy in Norway. This will be sent to the Stortinget in the very near future. For natural reasons, I cannot go into what kind of action it will be. As I see it, it is not appropriate to convert the reception of lone minors into child protection institutions. I put in my assessment among other things. emphasising that the best way to improve the situation for the children who come alone is to strengthen reception and that the children get into an overall care situation in a municipality as soon as possible. We will strive for this. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs is working on setting up a department for the youngest asylum seekers who come without older siblings or relatives with whom they can live, to ensure that the youngest are given the necessary care in a somewhat more sheltered situation. Nor do I see it as a good solution to convert receptions to child protection institutions, because this will mean that all single minors are made child protection clients, while their needs may well be of a health or school-based nature. However, child protection plays an important role locally when the receptions report a concern that they want child protection to follow up. Such follow-up is doing child protection today, but I fully agree with Molvær Grimstad that the total offers to this disadvantaged group need to be improved. That is why the Government's work on the big message is important, and we will, as I said, take concrete action in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1986	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I am aware that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is responsible for asylum recipients, but in relation to child protection and the importance of the Minister of Children and Family Affairs. The fact that we get a big message about this problem is positive. One should be aware that the time perspective is different for children than for adults. That is why a few weeks are a long time for young children. This issue has been raised at regular intervals. It is therefore important to take immediate action. Having a separate department for the smallest seemed to me to be positive. And I perceive the Minister for Children and Family Affairs so that one will strengthen competence towards this area. In relation to child protection and their challenge in asylum recipients, it is important not to pretend that a person uses child protection to make someone child protection clients. [[President clubs]] My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that the Child Protection Act should apply to anyone who is in Norway, as it is, so that it should also apply to those who are in reception? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e1999	The President will ask that one respect the speaking time!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2002	First, I would like to stress very, very strongly that there is no doubt that I am taking responsibility for these children too. As I said, we have responsibility for all children, and then this group is included. We want to present a message where we come up with concrete actions to this particular group. We need to have a much more active attitude and make proposals for concrete adaptations that avoid these children being on reception for a very long time. It is a general goal for this government. Then I also want to refer to what the municipal minister said today in her answer in the oral questioning session, where she encouraged all the municipalities to bring in one of these children. In fact, we would have solved the problem a long time ago. With regard to the issue of child protection, it is clear that these children should of course also be included in and able to get help through our child protection. [[President clubs]] What is important is that we do not make children child protection clients if that's not what they need to become [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2013	The invitation to the representative Molvær Grimstad when it comes to speaking time also applies to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2019	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘13 asylum-seekers in Norway receive children coming on their own to seek asylum. Today, 316 children live in reception without their parents. Through the media, we have become aware that 70 single-year-old asylum seekers had not received an appointment. Last week we were informed that Redd Barna has reported on all these 316 children as concerns to the local child protection system. Children's Law applies to all children in Norway. Why hasn't child protection done anything for the situation of these children before?'
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2028	I agreed with the representative Molvær Grimstad on question 40 that measures should be taken to improve the situation of lone minor asylum seekers while they are in reception. This challenge has taken the Government seriously, as said, and a more comprehensive effort will be proposed in that Communication. I also want to say that we are now in mid-November, and the message will be submitted in December, so there is not much time left. An increased effort to ensure the recruitment of gutter is part of the whole we want to look at. My answer to question 41 has also been drawn up in consultation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The representative of Molvær Grimstad refers to the fact that Redd Barna has reported concerns to all lone minors at reception and interprets this so that child protection has not done anything for these children so far. The Director of Foreign Affairs, with whom the representative is known, has the professional and administrative responsibility for state reception of asylum seekers, direct residence of asylum seekers and residence of refugees in a municipality. Own procedures have been developed regarding the responsibilities of different bodies for lone minors while living in reception. Here it is stated that the Child Protection Services Act applies to all children living in Norway and that local child protection has the same responsibility for children in reception as for other children in the municipality. The reception shall include, inter alia: ensure that appropriate contact is established with school, PP service, healthcare and child protection services. I mention this because I think it is likely that those children who have been collectively notified as concerns about child protection do not all need assistance under the law on child protection services. The needs may likewise be of a health or school-based nature. Child protection is the responsibility of all children in Norway and will examine the concerns they receive. This happens continuously when needs have been notified. However, there is no automatic means for all children on reception to be examined under the Child Protection Act. It would be to make all lonely, minors clients in child protection, which I don't think is desirable. It appears from routines that the reception must inform the municipality that the child has arrived at the reception. Furthermore, the reception shall be notified to the protection of children if they consider that the child is in need of assistance under the Child Protection Services Act. They can also seek advice in an anonymised form. Although this is not the question, I would like to mention that the procedures in this circular also cover situations where lone minors disappear from reception. Some press releases provide a picture of this situation being taken lightly, while, in fact, a number of measures are being put in place as a regular routine.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2041	I thank the Council of State for your answer. For many years it has been working to lower the threshold to benefit from child protection without feeling that one is becoming a client, precisely for child protection to be prevented before the problems arise. Therefore, put them with great competence, from which the children who are on asylum can benefit. It has been a quiet situation in many municipalities that child protection has not involved itself with regard to the children who are at the reception, because they simply have not clear guidelines for it, it has been told me. But when the laws are such as the Children's Protection Act § 4-6 on temporary decisions in emergency situations, there has to be information that has not been made clear to these child-restraint workers or to the municipalities, because if one follows the law we have, they would be helped. But the situation today is that the law is not being followed, and everyone is not getting help.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2050	I fully agree with the representative that we must, of course, have a very, very low threshold in providing concrete assistance to these children. If it's right, as the representative says, that child protection is not involved enough, and that one can refer to the type of example where child protection does not go in and provide assistance to these children when needed, this is very serious. Then we should fix it. I would therefore just like to say that I take what the representative says, with me in my further work, and would also like to have further documentation on it, so that we can follow up these specific matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2060	I have a question for our honourable oil and energy minister: ‘Many southern and eastern municipalities are plagued by floods. Nevertheless, the operating rules for discharge of water are not complied with. In Lake Van in Eastfold, the level was not reduced to the standard water level of 1.5 metres, but the water stood at 2.5 metres with significant flood damage as a result. What will the Council of State do to ensure compliance and to reduce flood damage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2069	The precipitation conditions in the Austland in the fall have led to flooding in a series of watercourses. In regulated watercourses, a used regulation can attenuate the flood to some extent, but by long-standing high watering, one can also have situations with flooding. The NVE is responsible for the regulatory compliance with the manoeuvring rules and for following up complaints about the manoeuvring. NVE doesn't have a measuring system that allows you to know the water level in all the magazines at all times. Such a system will be very resource-intensive. For Lake Van, such data will only be available at the turn of the year. As a standard formula in most manoeuvring regulations, provision has been made for no increase in the flow of floodwaters to the watercourse. This means that the flood water shall be distributed between increased water flow in the river and increased fluid resistance in the warehouse in the same way as under natural conditions. Thus, the water level in a warehouse may exceed the highest regulated water level. The 1983 Vansjö operating regulations lay down the own rules for handling in the event of flooding. The maximum regulated water level in Lake Van is 2.98 metres. The height of the floodwaters may increase, depending on the discharge profile before regulation. This must be calculated for each single magazine. This control must be performed mainly by building the pond and can be difficult to perform at all times for all warehouses in operation. I must stress that design and operation are the concessionaire's responsibility. Compensation for any damage to property resulting from flooding is a matter between the parties. NVE sent out in September a press release inviting regulars to actively follow developments in the future and take the necessary steps to avoid damage to life and property. The risk of damage to the environment may be prevented by careful pre-deposit of the most deferred magazine. In the case of Vansjö, the regulation states that ‘tapping against the harvest flood after 1 September is restricted to level 1,5 m’. Thus, the water level is not required to fall to 1.5 metres, but one should try to avoid a coming less than 1.5 metres.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2091	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was satisfactory to that extent, but I hope we can agree that if one had practised the regulation of navigation differently and had previously been out with bottling on the basis of all the signs of significant rainfall, the problem would not have been as significant for Lake Van as it has been. I would like to stress that, of course, we cannot fully guard against flood disasters, but we can prevent negative developments. It was even such that the foot from Lake Van was closed for 10 days in October, and there was a significant increase in water levels in Lake Van. Does not the Council of State agree that the persons responsible for watering should be more vigilant so that the flood damage can be better prevented by a more sensible practice of the regulation on manoeuvring?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2098	I do not know about Lake Van concrete, so it is very difficult for me to decide whether things could have been done in another way there. But on a general basis, of course, I have to agree with the representative Hedstrom that one has to do it in order to try to avoid flooding. Now, of course, it's always going to be uncertain, because you never know exactly how much it's going to be. Therefore, misassessments may be made in some cases. But as I said in my first answer: the NVE has sent out a call to everyone responsible for water level regulation, to take the necessary decisions. And then you get the hope that it's been done as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2106	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The master’s degree in preventive health work at the University of Bergen is of the same length, 12 semesters, same norms, and has the same admission requirements as a master’s degree. In spite of this, at this study, students will receive a donation of NOK 23 810 less in student loans than in major students. Will the Council of State take an initiative to get an exemption from the State Lending Fund for Education legislation, so that students in this study will give up as much as major students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2115	The system of cancelling educational loans in the Loan Fund for candidates who have completed long-term university and higher education opens up the possibility of giving up educational loans to the extent achieved in accordance with the standards of the degree, according to the Royal Resolution. The Master's degree at the University of Bergen is norm for two years beyond three years of university degree e.g. The same standards apply to most master’s degrees at other universities. Norwegian university degrees currently have a nomination of at least three and a half years or four years. When students with pre-education in Norway take the master's degrees and are required to pre-education, which means that the total study period is one year longer than that recommended by the Royal Resolution, and as long as for a master's degree, I can see that it seems unreasonable that they are not given the same amount as the principal candidates. The case concerns more studies than mentioned in the question, and it also has a cost side. However, I would like to take a positive look at the issue during the examination of the 2001 regulations. That work is now being done in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2122	I thank you for your answer. I choose to interpret it fairly positively, that the Council of State will take a positive view of this when it comes to amending the legislation. I may have misunderstood the Council of State, but it is of course important to stress that the admission requirement for a master's degree in Bergen is cand.mag., and a cand.mag.-grad is four years. The usual system of Bachelor and Master is three plus two, but since we do not have this Bachelor/Master system at Norwegian University, it is stated that for admission to this Master's degree, which is especially at the University of Bergen, it is a cand.mag.-grade that is required. Thus, the study becomes six years, as a main course of study, not five years, which is common in master’s studies, i.e. Three plus two. For this reason, I feel that it should be natural for them to have the same arrangement as for a major course of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2129	The representative Reikvam does quite correctly when he interprets the answer positively. It was supposed to be positive, and it's going to be treated positively when we're dealing with the regulations, because, as the representative Rikamm says, it's unreasonable that students who have the same normal length of study are treated differently from the depreciation rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2138	This question, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be raised by the representative Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2141	‘Up to a quarter of the scientific staff in computer science may disappear from the University of Oslo to the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu next year. It will go beyond both research activities at the university and teaching tasks, because the shortage of competent personnel is high. Does the Government consider such a massive transfer of personnel to be in line with the Storting's assumptions to establish the IT centre, and with the aim of doubling the number of graduates in computer science?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2148	In the context of the Storting's treatment of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, it has been widely agreed that the established educational and research institutions should be at the centre. The current State Council, Lilletun, had dialogue with the university and higher education sectors to find the best ways in which institutions could intervene with the IT and knowledge centre. One of the proposals promoted by universities was the establishment of a Center of Excellence in information and communication technology at Fornebu. The Bondevik Government proposed such an establishment in the State budget for 2000. In its letter of 10 August 1999, the Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research asked the Council of Research to ‘in cooperation with the institutions to present concrete plans for possible progress, organisation, scope, etc. for a Center of Excellence at Fornebu’; The Norwegian Research Council set up both a steering group and a professional group to investigate how best to establish a Centre of Excellence, which became highly professional and which served the interests of universities organisationally. All universities have been involved in this investigation and are behind the professional and organisational solutions that you have now come up with. In addition to the four universities, Sintef and Norsk calculators are also behind the upcoming establishment at Fornebu. The Ministry has been in contact with the Norwegian Research Council, which assumes that there will not be a massive shift of IT expertise from the University to the Fornebu Centre. Rather, it would like the establishment at Fornebu to contribute to the strengthening of research and education activities at universities. For information, all scientific staff at the University of Oslo who are involved in the Fornebu Centre will fulfil their teaching obligations until next year. Universities control the construction of a Center of Excellence in information and communication technology at Fornebu, and I am confident that they will find an organisational form that will ensure that the Centre is fully professionally well-functioning, and that it will also benefit the students and the trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2159	The issue that I raised in my question is mentioned in the Newspaper the other day, where central forces at the University of Oslo express great concern about the transfer of resources that one actually sees, to the IT centre. A fear that this will go beyond both research and training activities. So the optimism that the Council of State has previously expressed, and that he expresses today, in terms of interaction and not competition, is not the same as the one they experience, the ones who are at the university and see how it is a stream of resource people to IT Fornebu. My supplementary question is: does the Council of State see the need to intensify the activity in order to ensure that universities retain resources that enable them to be competitive, that they can hold on to these key personnel that are essential for both research and training activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2166	I do not share the pessimism of the representative Kvassheim here. He refers to a paper in the Newspaper. After the essays in the Newspaper, the director of the Institute of Computer Science at the University of Oslo wrote a letter to the Research Council, where it wrote, among other things. is: ‘Ifi at the University of Oslo has chosen to deal with the fact that the decision to set up the Centre is a fact and that there are likely to be more ifi teachers who will be associated with the Centre. [[Institute for Computer Science]] The number remains unclear and will be the subject of negotiations. We think it is entirely possible that the new resources flowing into the computer science field by the establishment of this centre lead to a strengthening of the Institute of Computer Science, both financially and personnel, yes, not only ifi/UiO, but the whole ICT field nationally. We now want to work for constructive solutions to achieve this." Of course, I will fully support these constructive solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2181	It's probably not common, but it's only allowed to comment on the previous -- not on substance, but on one thing, and that's that...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2186	The President will immediately cut off any approach to that. Little ton now was in the process of operating. The President will request that the representative stick to the Rules of Procedure and ask the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2189	That's what I'm supposed to meet. I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research: ‘As a consequence of Reform 97, the organisation of the school day was changed. The school kiss limit for six-year-olds was legalized to 2 km, and many municipalities organized middle kisses for the smallest students. The last one was not legal. It now creates problems for many elephants, parents and municipalities. Would you like to take the initiative to change the laws, so that these problems can be solved?'
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2200	The President simply wants to add that one can often be tempted – one should not be tempted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2206	Although I am now to reply as Minister of Education, as Minister of the Church, I would like to say that I appreciate the President's observation that we should not be tempted. I have noticed the views of the representative Lilletun on middle kissing for the 6-year-olds. There is no work going on in this field. I'm referring to the rule of law on skyscrapers that applies to the whole country. With the big geographical differences we have, there'll be huge inequalities in needs. It is therefore difficult to see an adequate alternative to the current rules. I think we have to leave to local self-government to find good solutions for how to organize the school kiss.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2215	I thank you for your answer. Even if I share the views of the Council of State on local self-government, it is that the law that is indebted was adopted in 1990 – before Reform 97 was adopted. The school day was then very much changed, and as a result, a largely organized middle kiss. Then there's been a discussion about who's guilty of paying this money – municipality or county. I met this very strongly on a round in the municipalities of the owner counties now in the fall. I think it is necessary to go deeper into this, because it is not inconceivable – I assume that the Council of State agrees with me – that some of the elephants either get a compulsory schooling period or actually have to wait one hour before schooling and maybe several hours afterwards. So I want to encourage the Council of State once again to go deeper into the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2224	I can hardly believe that reform 97 was introduced in 1997 and that this could not have been an unknown problem in the years that have passed since 1997. We got a legal limit for school kiss of 2 km, but the middle kiss was not legalized. Nevertheless, there is of course full opportunity for any municipality to organise such an offer. Here, the municipal economy of the seventh and last will be decisive. The local community and county economy is crucial for all the noises for the students. I would therefore urge the representative, Lilletun, to make a budgetary settlement that involves a good municipal economy – NOK 5 billion more to the municipalities, as we have proposed – so that more municipalities can be able to make such an offer. But I want to stand by what I said in my answer, that I believe that here it must be local customization that determines how to organize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2234	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The higher education institution in Eastfold is the highest priority investment project in the UH sector which has not received start-up funding. The Ministry clearly has incorrect information on the expiry of current leases. Two contracts expire on 21 December 2000 and one contract on 30 June 2002. This year, as in 1999, this was misdeclared by the Ministry until 2004 and 2005. The lease, which goes out now, is hard to renew, and the school can stand without a room. How will the Council of State deal with the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2243	I would like to thank the representative Nakkim for this opportunity to correct errors in the information on the expiry of the lease contracts for the University of Eastfold in Os allé in Halden. The Ministry has concluded three contracts for the rental of former industrial premises in Os allé. These are three rentals of a total of 9,593 m2. Two of these, Os allé 9 and 11, have expired on 31 December 2000. The third, Os allé 5, shall have an expiry date of 30 June 2002. The lessor of Os allé 9 has informed that the lease has been extended until 30 June 2001. For the period up to 30 June 2002, the area of the university is likely to have to be reduced by half a floor. The premises in question are now used for computer science laboratories. Replacement rooms can be provided, but they are located at a distance of 5 km from Os allé. We allé nr. 11 includes 2,140 m2. It is a rental building without alternative tenants, and we have been informed that the contract can be extended. We allé nr. 5, where, according to the contract, the university rents 6 150 m2 until 30 June 2002, is purchased by the Institute of Energy Technology. They are now renting the Halden municipality in Os allé, but will move into their own premises as soon as the university moves out. As this overview shows, the university will be mainly secured by Os allé premises until the end of June 2002. The Ministry is working to move the college establishments in Os allé to a new building on the Remmen. State buildings are now drawing up sketch projects, which are expected to be completed in December of this year. Thus, the preparation and design of the newly built Remmen has come a long way and the project has the highest priority. The government is still working to realise the project as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2258	I thank the Council of State for the answer – apparently a positive response. But I would like to ask: does the Council of State understand that the school is really in a desperate situation as long as it has not received a starting signal for the expansion, even if he wants the expansion to take place as soon as possible? This makes it difficult to negotiate with the landlords, since at school you can't clearly say how long leases you need. There are also major problems for education, which can now be spread in different places in the city. So what I'm asking is, has the wrong information about the duration of current leases mattered to the Government's decision not to propose state funding to the university in 2001? Does the Council consider that this error should provide the basis for a review and, where appropriate, at what time is it relevant to reconsider the construction case? If the University of Eastfold will have to obtain new temporary premises due to delayed expansion, will the Council of State ensure that the university receives the necessary financial compensation for the additional expenses it will incur?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2267	I had the opportunity to attend the opening event at the University of Eastfold this fall, and I am very aware of the problematic situation at the university. This is also why a new building for the University of Eastfold is at the top of the list of priorities for new buildings. When there was no room for new buildings in the 2001 draft budget, this is due to the overall economic situation, as the representative Nakkim himself knows well from the Finance Committee, the pressure in the Norwegian economy and the need to keep up with the economic stimulus. But when we have room for new buildings, the Eastfold High School will be the top priority. Of course, we'll work closely with the university to look at both the practical and the economic consequences of the possible shifting of a new building to find good solutions for higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2279	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Fishing and aquaculture are emerging future industries in Norway. The need for recruitment and skills for industries is growing. However, because of the failure of applicants and the poor state-owned economy, important training provision in industry at secondary level is at risk of being reduced. What can the Council of State do to counter this and to provide a long-term, holistic approach that at all levels builds on the need for training and competence in industries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2288	I agree that this is a regrettable development. The problem has been discussed in the past, and a working group set up by the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research has developed an action plan for recruitment to the fisheries sector and aquaculture studies at both higher and higher levels. In the working group, industry, professional organisations, secondary education and higher education were represented. The working group delivered its plan on 6 June this year. The action plan proposes a number of measures to improve recruitment. The Ministry of Churches, Education and Research, in cooperation with the Ministry of Fisheries, will follow up the action plan. Proposals for measures will be carefully assessed and followed up as far as possible within the economic framework available. However, the most important work needs to be done by the industry itself. Several of the proposals in the action plan address the industry. The industry needs to generate interest in this education, so that young people will want to get to grips with it. Municipalities must also assume their regional policy responsibilities. I know that there is an important work on recruitment for training in fishing and aquaculture in several counties, in close cooperation with the industry. Work is taking place at all levels and, hopefully, will contribute to a better recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2297	I would like to thank the Council of State for a clear and correct answer. Fisheries and aquaculture can become one of the pillars of the future national economy, but there are certain conditions that need to be in place, including: a satisfactory level of competence. This means, of course, that a person must have a good education offer even at secondary school level. Then, in my opinion, it's pointless and short-sighted what you're witnessing in my home country, that high schooling, for example. Aukra and Averøy, which have built up a good environment, have competence and a good training offer in the fisheries and aquaculture industry, are being reduced. So to a slightly different matter that has been dealt with in the Business Committee. It is now known that there is a political majority in favour of schools being able to obtain farming concessions. This is new and is a very important and positive incentive for this educational offer. I would like to ask the Council of State: what steps can he take to follow up the fact that it is quickly becoming a reality that schools can get this, so that it can help build up while recruiting schools even better?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2308	I ask for understanding that I cannot go into detailed answers to the school structure and individual schools in More and Romesdal. I've already done that as a state councillor – i.e. I have not, but I have been visiting there, and it was perceived as I had done so. I got a terrible impression of that, and I'm sure the representative of Kongshaug knows that. I share his view that fisheries and aquaculture are perhaps one of the most promising industries in Norway. Some believe that this is going to be the industry that, in terms of export value, can not only take over as the largest industry after the oil is phased out, but perhaps become of a magnitude that the oil industry and oil production have been. That's why we're going to facilitate education. Of course, if the Business Committee opens up what Kongshaug now refers to, we will do what we need to do to follow this up, so that we can benefit from it both in recruitment and in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2320	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Statistical Central Bureau estimates show that Norway needs 15 000 engineers over 8-10 years, while experiencing a decline in the search for engineering training. Experience from the Colleges of Trøndelag shows that the courses for engineering training have a very high level of search and are a very good tool for recruiting for the engineering study. Will the Ministry increase the appropriations for these courses, so that the number of places of study can be equal to the needs forecasted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2329	A number of higher studies in natural sciences and technology, including engineering training, are currently struggling with recruitment. This is also a situation we find again in several countries in the Western world. For this reason, the Ministry has considered it appropriate to take a national approach to increase recruitment to these subjects in general, and not just engineering training in particular. In spring, therefore, it became, among other things. establish a national centre for the recruitment of natural and technological subjects located at NTNU. The Ministry is aware that a number of our engineering training courses have a significant recruitment through both the one-year advanced course and the so-called pre-term course. In the latter offer, students with general study competence, without depression in mathematics and physics, are given an organized first year of study, which also includes teaching the summer before and the summer after the first year of study. In the context of engineering training, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research is currently providing specific funds for 29.5 pre-school classes of 30 students, and this is proposed to be continued in the 2001 State budget. In addition, grants are granted to the Polytechnic College for such education. The total number of these pre-primary training places is approx. 1000 places, and is a significant number in view of the total recording capacity of engineering training, which is proposed for 2001 to slightly above 3200. In St. pp. No 1 refers to the fact that the Ministry will initiate a dialogue with the professional environments in the field of engineering training in order to improve the division of labour and national coordination of training capacity on the different lines of engineering training. This work could in the long term improve the recruitment of engineers. It's in St. pp. No 1 not proposed to provide funds for additional classes of courses, but the Ministry is concerned with the recruitment situation for the real subjects and will consider different measures in the future. In particular, it will be important to enable young people to choose real-life education in higher education, so that more people qualify directly for technical and scientific education at our universities and colleges. Advisors and teachers in secondary education also need to inform students that the selection of real secondary education courses could prevent admission to a number of higher education courses. Finally, I would like to point out that students who complete vocational secondary education after reform 94 have a completely different real and formal competence than before the reform. I want to take the initiative on how to make a more flexible transition to engineering training for those who have completed a letter. This matter is now dealt with in the committee, so we can take this when it comes to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2344	I thank the Council of State for the full answer. Clearly, he is involved in the problem, and that is good. But when one gets newspaper headlines like: Will the government rage engineering education? – and a person gets a lot of requests about this, it is clear that a wholesaler with an interest in the subject needs to take it seriously. I'm familiar with the measures that the Council of State said, and it's not more than two years since this big business decided extra points for those who wanted to deepen in science and mathematics, to recruit, as mentioned by the Council of State. Now, when it's a reality that the department proposes in the proposition a reduction of 300 places of study, which can once again rage on the trade unions, I wonder if the Council of State, when he was so positive in his answer, can imagine that even the colleges re-dispose engineering places to advance, when we see that the recruitment of these courses, especially of those who have diplomas, is so positive, and when it becomes so good results and so good professionals. It takes Mother Norway for us to be more creative and not just a commodity producing country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2353	I believe the representative Tingelstad and I share the same strong commitment in the search for and education in the real world. It is worrying that so few of our young people are applying for this education. The fact that we have proposed a certain conversion in the 2001 state budget is due to the fact that we have too many courses that go too far in the machine because many of the places of study are empty, and that we would rather have a collection of full courses and strong trade unions for each course. There are no engineering training courses proposed as a whole. Apart from the Nord-Trøndelag High School, we have kept the various professional environments in the hope that the search will gradually be strengthened, so that we get the educational capacity we need for future business. I'm going to follow up Tingelstad's request to look into the possibility that colleges might be more involved in pre-schooling, but most importantly, students in high school will take on the real subject degradation required to take an engineering course, and we're also going to motivate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2360	We then go back to the questions. 15, 16, 17, and 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2366	This question, from Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Culture, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is the one who is right, but will be answered by the Minister for Culture on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2369	‘The aim of the Minister of Culture is to facilitate teamwork and organisational work and to strengthen the culture around the country. In the municipality of Haram they have produced an art book with two CDs. This cultural package, «our song», is to be sold, and all revenue is to go to a cultural fund for children and young people. The County Tax Office requires VAT on the sale. Book sales are free of VAT. It is the book/CD combination that triggers the VAT requirement. Does the Council of State consider this to be reasonable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2376	The question of the VAT Act falls within the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and I can provide the following answers: The general rule is that VAT is payable on all sales of goods. However, books are exempt from VAT at the latest level of turnover. As with newspapers, activities with the turnover of books may deduct an in-depth charge from their acquisitions. This is described as a 0-rate charging. In Regulation No. 19 of the VAT Act specifies the extent of the exemption applicable to printed paper. The exemption does not cover publications traded with other goods as a single unit of goods. Books included in such a common unit of goods, regardless of the other part of the unit of goods, e.g.: pencils, writing pads or floppy disks thus become chargeable. Publications traded together with CDs, music CDs or other goods also become taxable because CDs are considered to be taxable goods. To the question from the representative Kvassheim whether I think this is reasonable, I will answer that any exemption requires a delimitation. The exemption from printing thus poses many problems of demarcation and causes distortions of competition. Reference may be made to the fact that, for example, books published in CD-ROMs are not covered by the exemption. Image publications, including a number of art books, have in practice also fallen outside the scope of the book exemption because it was originally intended to exempt the printed word and not any type of publication. The problems related to the exemption from printing include: referred to in the Ministry of Finance's proposal for the introduction of general VAT on the turnover of services. I refer here to Ot.prp. No 2 presented in connection with the 2001 budget. Finally, I would also like to recall the principle position that the charging provisions should not be used to satisfy purposes not covered by the law, such as social, cultural and humanitarian purposes. The background to this understanding is that the State’s contribution to such purposes should be made directly through ordinary transfers over the different budget lines and not indirectly through tax exemptions. The Ministry informed Stortinget of its position, cf. St.meld. No 17 for 1971-72, and the Financial Committee agreed to this understanding of the legislation, cf. Inner. S. No 190 for 1971-72.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2391	I thank you for your answer. The jumping point becomes in many ways whether the CD that is attached to it is a natural part of the book, a supplement, or whether it is an item that is being traded with the book. Today, the situation is such that there is a wide range of practices in the different parts of the country. One can go to shops in Oslo and find the cookbook with a CD and many books that are similar to those that are the starting point for my question, which have a VAT exemption. It's a very different practice because in many cases you define what's attached, as a natural part of the book. So my question is whether the Council of State will help to get a clean-up here and then in the favor of culture, and with less VAT than today, no more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2398	Of course, I agree with Mr Kvassheim that decisions on these issues should serve the cause of culture, and I am not a stranger to the idea that there is a need for a cross-border rise in order to find out how the rules best promote culture and freedom of expression and the case of the written word.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2406	‘The NRK will now be investing in residential speculation. Together with the builder PEAB, the licenser is behind the luxury home project Marielyst Park, which is due to be completed in 2004. The NRK expects to make 80-90 million. the costs of this project. Since it may prove that the property market will fall, is the Council of State convinced that this is correct and, in particular, is there a safe investment on behalf of the licensees?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2413	I would like to be briefed on the background to the NRK's position with the housing project the representative of Bredvold addresses in his question. In 1993 and 1995, the NRK bought an area south of Suhm's street at Marienlyst in Oslo for a total of 12.4 million. kr. The NRK later carried out a total review of its land needs on Marienlyst. The company concluded that it would be possible to accommodate the future operations in the area that the company owns north of Suhm’s gate. In 1997, the NRK therefore concluded an agreement with the contractor PEAB Norway for the sale of the area south of Suhm’s gate. The assumption that PEAB would buy the land was that it was reregulated for residential purposes. This year, the Municipality of Oslo adopted the re-regulation of the area, and PEAB paid 62.5 million. NOK to NRK as the first part of the purchase price. The remaining part of the purchase price will be paid to the NRK when the last dwelling is sold, as a certain proportion of the profit from the sale of the dwellings. This land sale was adopted by the general meeting of the company, which considered it a safe investment. I can't see the company conducting residential speculation, as the representative Bredvold seems to think. The figures are clear, regardless of developments in the housing market, the NRK has made 50 million. kr. The sale of the land by the NRK seems to me to be a natural part of the ongoing management of the company's property mass, so that it is economically adapted to the company's operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2424	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Broadcasting director Einar Förde says that this is the correct and sensible use of the licensee's money. I'm convinced that as long as we have a compulsory license payment to the NRK, these funds are going to be used for what we have the NRK for, that is to say, being a public broadcaster. It is also worrying that any surplus has already been made available. What if the market is turning around, such as, for example, Morten Gangnes, PEAB representative, said in today's business on 1 November 2000 that "the real estate market can turn out to be falling"? How is the Council of State supposed to defend something like this if that happens? Otherwise, I notice that NRK employees should have the right to pre-empt the apartments. What does the Council of State think of this? And, can the Council of State think about property speculation with license fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2433	Let me repeat what I told you in my first answer: The sale of the plot was approved by the general meeting this year. This needs to be interpreted for a reasonable reason so that I consider the board's proposal on this land sale as a safe investment. They bought the land for 12.4 million. So I agreed to sell it for a minimum of 62.5 million. kr. This sounds like a safe investment to me. When it comes to pre-emption rights for NRK employees, I am not particularly aware of that. I'll look into this more closely when I get back to the department, and then we can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2443	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture: ‘The departure of Hans B. Skase has created doubts about the attitude of the Council of State and the NIF towards the value base of top-notch sport in general and the anti-doping work in particular. What is the attitude of the Council of State towards the anti-doping work, what does the Council of State think that top athletes are taking food supplements that in worst cases may contain nandrolone, and does the Council agree that the acceptance of food supplements sends bad signals to young athletes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2452	Questions about doping have been given high priority in the Ministry of Culture in recent years, which means that Norway is at the forefront of anti-doping work in the world. It is my and the government's policy to strengthen the fight against doping. Several have made significant contributions to anti-doping work. However, such an important area does not rest on individuals alone. A range of doping agents pose a risk of health damage to the individual user. I want a top sport where young practitioners with ambitions are not dependent on doping to achieve results. This is one of the reasons why the Ministry of Culture is now hosting the International Intergovernmental Consultative Group on Anti-Doping in Sport, a conference in which the authorities from approx. 30 countries meet to coordinate their efforts against doping. To be more precise: 39 countries are in Oslo in these hours to discuss this matter and to move on in the fight against doping. I believe that Norway’s Sports Association – NEF – has for a long time done excellent work in the field of ethics and anti-doping. However, some incidents in recent years have helped to question the independence of the various stages of the organisation. I think of the fact that the control, prosecution and conviction authorities are organised in the Sports Association. In the last sports message, cf. St.meld. No 14 for 1999-2000, the Ministry has delivered its opinion on the organisation of the Norwegian anti-doping work. We have come to the conclusion that there is a need to establish an independent control body outside the NIF for the conduct of doping tests, a view that NIF agrees with. It is my ambition that the Supervisory Body be set up as a separate foundation with representatives of the Governing Board appointed by the State and the NIF. We agree that there should be no doubt about the Norwegian anti-doping work and the independence of the operators in the work. Unfortunately, doping agents, especially anabolic steroids, are also used by youth groups. Factors suggest that there is a link between the use of doping drugs and violent acts. So the dopingoon is not just a problem for organized sport, but for society as a whole. The Government will propose a legislative amendment to prohibit the acquisition, possession and use of doping materials. By changing the law at this point, we will improve the police framework to combat the use of doping drugs. Recent events show the need for awareness-raising related to the use of food supplements. Unfortunately, parts of the debate have been relatively unhealthy, and I have registered that some will ban all kinds of food supplements for athletes. It is therefore necessary to clarify what is necessary and acceptable and what are the subsidies containing substances in the doping list. I would therefore like to take the initiative of cooperating with relevant departments, research institutions and sports organisations in order to provide greater insight into this area. Finally, I assume that the Sports Association itself ensures that the so-called episodes during the Olympic Games in Sydney will not repeat itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2475	I thank you for the answer, and record that the debate that has taken place has led to some action by the Council of State. However, I insist that the doubt that was raised about the attitudes, what the ministry actually stood for, was created by the Council of State standing behind a sports management that in many ways devalued and excused sportsmen who had been taken for doping. It's the way that the dietary supplement to athletes, and here, of course, we're not talking about iron and tran, in many ways is an entrance to baptism. It's part of a grey zone, where it's still looking for better results. For the sake of sport – and I have been working on sports for many years – it is important to be completely crystal clear when sport moves into a grey zone, because there are also many commercial interests that speculate in sport. That's why... yeah, I get that I have to give up here. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2482	The Rules of Procedure require Mr Valle to resign, whether she likes it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2485	No, in this case I do not want to give up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2490	I agree with Mr Valle that it is absolutely necessary to address this matter with the greatest seriousness. Doping and dietary problems have developed in a way that is of utmost importance. However, there has been no disagreement in the Ministry of Culture that food supplements with doping additives are not permitted or acceptable in Norwegian sport today. When the representative, Valle, says we're downplaying the positive tests that Norwegian practitioners gave in Sydney, I don't agree with her. However, it is my clear view that sport itself has to deal with these issues, and I have had a clear view on the part of the Ministry that we should have a cooperation line in relation to sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2500	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: «Trondheim and Stavanger symphony orchestras are musical power centers in their respective folk regions. Unfortunately, the appropriations allocated to these two regional orchestras do not relate to the allocation of the national orchestras, as expressed in the opinions of the Culture Committee. Due to lack of funding over the years, orchestras in Trondheim and Stavanger are forced to reduce crew and activity. How will the Council of State prevent such a further weakening of two important symphony orchestras?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2509	The Ministry of Culture's draft budget for 2001 proposes to continue the grants to the symphony orchestras in Trondheim and Stavanger at the same level as in 2000. Thus, no room has been found for realising the grant to the two major regional orchestras. However, a significant increase in the contribution to the two smallest orchestras, the Tromsø Symphony Orchestra and the Kristiansand Symphony Orchestras has been proposed for 2001. The question of how to develop the symphony orchestras is very complex. A number of questions arise, including: the size, organisation and cooperation of the orchestras, the tournament and, of course, the economy. The Ministry of Culture now assesses how to respond to these questions in the most appropriate way. I have a great understanding that the situation is going to be difficult for the symphony orchestras in Stavanger and Trondheim. I cannot, of course, make any promises about appropriations in future budget mines at this time, but it is my opinion that the two current orchestras, which, despite the tight financial framework, have had a very positive development and built up to a high professional level, will have to be given high priority in the allocation of the Cultural Ministry's framework for later budget mines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2520	I thank you for your answer. At least there was a positive message from the Minister of Culture — that the Council of State realizes that what has been provided for by grants to Trondheim Symphony Orchestra and Stavanger Symphony Orchestra for next year is not sufficient, and that it is believed that it is the turn of these two orchestras in 2002. The problem is that these orchestras are talking about, with the budget proposed, won't be able to play concerts for 13 of the weeks of the year in addition to vacations. It's also now that it's been four years since they've been touring. There are also no arranged chamber concerts in three years. This is, of course, due to the appropriations. I think that the fundamental review that the Council of State is warning is important, because first you have to have these orchestras, it has to be a certain standard, for example. the number of musicians and it must also be possible to carry out demonstrations around the regions concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2531	The government has said that it wants a stepping up of culture in the years to come. And I fully agree with the representative Burnde that Orkester-Norge is a very central part of our cultural life. I want to come back to a final plan on how the orchestra-Norway can be further developed for the benefit of the whole country, and the two mentioned orchestras are high on the priority list.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2536	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-15.ana.ud996e2545	There is no record.
