ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e27	The representative Inge Myrvoll, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative of Thore Aksel Nistad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e35	On behalf of Christopher Stensaker, Lodve Solholm, Per Roar Bredvold and myself, I will present a Document No. 8 proposals to establish a joint accident commission for all major accidents in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e40	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e61	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Sylvia Brustad State Council Terje Moe Gustavsen State Council Trond Giske The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - Thank you. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e80	My question goes to the Minister of Education. It is true that the new government has tried to mark itself with a number of proposals that concern the modernisation of Norwegian society. But in this strategy, there are some obvious gaps, and one of the most obvious gaps is the lack of reforms in school and education. This is one of the key prerequisites for Norway to be able to deal with the challenges of the future, and in this respect we have practically heard nothing from the new government. There was almost nothing in the government statement, and during these weeks the responsible minister did not use the opportunity to mark any reform line either. My question is therefore: why this passive attitude towards reforms in the education sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e89	I thank you for the question. There is no passivity in the current government in relation to reforms in the education system in Norway. On the contrary, the Workers' Party has been one of the drivers for our education system to adapt to the enormous changes that will be required by the reform of continuing education and training. We're going to go into a society where people go to school and work their whole lives, and it has to adapt to the education system. There is a reduction in a public sample, the so-called Mjøs Committee, which promotes its position in May. It shall go through the whole education system in the case of higher education: the organisation of universities, the organisation of higher education, the organisation of the degree structure, the financing, etc. When the selection has submitted its opinion, the setting will normally be sent to the hearing and will end up in a key message that goes through the entire university and higher education sector. I think that round is going to be one of the biggest reforms in higher education that this country has seen. And we're going to follow up the goal we've had with it, that people should be able to sit on the school bench even throughout their working life. In addition, the Government announced in its Declaration of Accession that we will introduce a right for all adults to receive higher education. After all, the Labour Party was a driver for all high school students between 16 and 19 years of age to get that right, as far as I remember Right-wing voted against. Now that right is going to be extended to adults as well. It is absolutely essential if our business community is to function so that everyone is given the necessary competence, and that right is therefore indicated in the Declaration of Accession. So I don't think the representative Petersen needs to worry about the Workers' Party being passive on these questions. On the contrary, we will be a very active driver for reforming the Norwegian education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e104	I think very many of the parents who have children in primary or secondary school were not particularly encouraged by the answer given by the Council of State. There is a number of need-to-know reforms in the daily training of young people, and that was not the case with the Council of State. Then the question is, what do you want to do concretely? Let me test the state councils at one of the many wishes for reforms that Right have, among other things. that we impose stricter requirements on the competence of teachers. After all, half of those who teach mathematics in high school do not have the necessary deeper education, and the question is whether the Council of State will be with the Right when we now demand a clearer professional immersion in the subjects in which the teachers are to teach — even in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e111	Teacher training is part of higher education in Norway, and it is natural that it will also be reviewed after the Mjøs Committee has made its decision. And I fully agree with the representative Petersen that we have to make sure that we have good enough qualified teachers. It's serious that very many teachers don't have the education they should have to teach in Norwegian school. It's also an important thing in addition to that, that what ultimately determines whether the kids in primary school get the education they need is the community economy. My party has also been a driver for improving the municipal economy, because it is at the seventh and last that the municipalities can use at primary school, which determines how good the school will be. In addition, of course, the Government will follow the proposals adopted by the Stortinge in connection with the communication of recruitment to the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e120	There will be follow-up questions – No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e123	What is needed in Norwegian school policy is probably not primarily more reforms, but to strengthen quality and content. I see the new Council of State say that in an interview in the newspaper today. In secondary school, the situation is that the level of qualification of teachers falling at the age limit is significantly higher than the level of qualification of new recruiters. There is virtually no recent recruitment of lecturers at all for higher education. Thorbjørn Jagland said in an interview in School Focus last year during the election campaign that it is vital to strengthen the recruitment of lecturers for high school. And he added: 'And I would like to ask you just before the payroll.' Now it is not natural to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs about this, but instead I ask you, Minister of Education: Is the Labour Party in a position to follow up the great promises that Thorbjørn Jagland made in the election campaign last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e130	The new form of prosecution in Stortinget, I understand, is direct speech. But I will answer the question: Of course I will not go into the wage negotiations that are going on. They started on Monday and are handled by the Minister of Labour and Administration. But we have said that we want to follow up what the Workers' Party stood for when the report of recruitment to the teaching profession was dealt with. I'm not sure inge Wohnning's premise that the teachers who are now entering Norwegian school are worse than those who go out. On the contrary, I think there are very many young teachers who have an involvement in the profession, who have a professional competence, and who have a pedagogical competence that Norwegian school needs. So I don't really think there's any quality reduction with the young, good teachers coming into school. I think that is, in fact, a strength for the school also in relation to using the flexible learning reforms contained in the new curriculum. But I can assure the representative Wohnung that we will follow up what the Labour Party has stood for, namely that we need to ensure a good recruitment for the teaching profession in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e140	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e143	I allow myself to ask this follow-up question: for many years we have been making many reforms in school, and there has been a tendency that we – I use the word ‘we’ – are constantly loading new tasks on the teachers. One of the most pressing reforms in Norwegian school today is to revisit the respect of a normal teacher who can be careful about being normal, and who can get away with having to have the role of mother, father, Bård schoolmaster, therapist – and sometimes like Jesus, to say it that way. What will the Council of State do to regain a normal teaching role with which normal, ordinary people can live? I am convinced that this is absolutely essential for the recruitment process, in addition to other questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e150	I am a little uncertain about what the representative Dørum means by a «normal teacher». I get the impression that there is a teacher who might be at the catheter and teach in his profession. If you go into the new curriculum, it's up to the school and the teacher to develop people and young people both as social people, cooperating people, tolerant people and learning and professionally qualified people. So being a normal teacher is very much about all of these social aspects as well. I share the concern of the representative Odd Einar Dørum that the school gets into a lot of social problems that come from outside the community, which make the teaching profession more stressful. It's about how we organize our whole society, what welfare qualities we have in society, what follow-up we can give to the children who fall outside, who don't get the growth that most of us have experienced, and that most of us think everyone deserves. That's where the teacher and the school will play an important role in the future too, I don't think we're going to get lost, but we have to give the teacher and the school the resources needed to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e159	Hans J. Røsjorde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e162	One thing is the need for new reforms; another thing is the evaluation of already implemented reforms that do not all work as intended. It is true that, in the case of crafts, these have, in the opinion of many, been strongly theorized. Let me say it in a slightly special way: Hammer and case are added aside for the benefit of textbooks. This has obviously caused problems for the recruitment of crafts. Is the Council satisfied with the recruitment of crafts? Will the State Council consider providing more practical information on everyday life in this field as regards secondary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e169	I believe that reform 94 was also successful in relation to vocational training, both because we have had a positive development in some professional courses and because we have had an increased throughflow. While we had a situation in the past where the students went from the basic course to the basic course and never got a qualification that allowed them to learn and get a letter, we now have a much better throughflow and thus also more trained professionals. I also believe that the possibility of a little more general education in the professions, which allowed you to choose to have one year's study competence with an extra general education, has been positive, because then many students failed to start over from the first class. But I agree with the representative Røsjorde. We must be aware that we ensure a good enough recruitment for the professions, so that we ensure that we have skilled labour in the sectors to which they are training.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e176	Rolf Rekvam – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e179	Last autumn we addressed a major report on the evaluation of reform 94. It showed, among other things: that in terms of the structure of high school, it works well, but what we haven't done is the content of high school itself, we haven't gotten to the changes we want, the changes that are provided for in the curriculum. This big message pointed to a number of things that need to be changed. It pointed out that we have a character system that gives us a misfocus on what is the goal of the curriculum, it pointed out that the form of the textbooks and the way we use the textbooks also help to prevent development, and then pointed it to the organization, the way we organize the school day and the school year. My question to the Council of State is: Will he take the initiative to change these conditions, the things that we know hinder the development that we want? What kind of play can we expect the Council of State to join us in the near future in order to achieve the content reform that we expect to receive in high school, which is set out in the curriculum?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e186	I have signaled that the reform has been very successful in terms of quantity: we secured all 16-year-olds right to three years in high school. That's the quality we have to look at. I fully agree with the representative of Reikvam that the school may have been for textbook. Now, the curriculum has suggested that it's not the textbook that should be governing, but that flexibility and that width we haven't gotten into school yet. We also need greater flexibility in the use of teacher's powers. The principal must be able to make better use of the resources available in his own school, so that we can have a flexibility that will make the content better. In my job, I'm going to try to follow up on this, get more flexibility, get more curriculum management of the school and a smaller textbook management – and I think that's what will make the content of the reform better.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e195	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e198	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research a question. The Minister of Education just said that the Workers' Party had been in the forefront of the reform of continuing education and training and was a driving force for the reform, and that is far from the point of view. The correct thing is that the Stortinget has done its job by providing a statutory individual with the right to further education and training. Unfortunately, however, employers again do not know their visit time and will not contribute to the financing of a reform funded by three parties: the State, the employer and the employee. My question to the Minister of Education is this: if it goes as it may seem to be going, if employers do not want to participate in and finance what is thus the great promise of knowledge for Norwegian working life, is the Council of State foreign so that the Stortinget and the Government together have to find solutions to ensure that employers contribute to financing the reform of continuing education and training?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e208	I'm not going to go into the discussion that I see Djupedal mentioned earlier, about who has the credit for the continuing education reform. It might be LO first and foremost that has been the main driver of that work. I don't want to – and I think that the representative of Djupedal understands – go into commenting on parts of a payroll that are not yet complete, I think we should let the social partners take care of that. But what I want to stress is that the reform of continuing education is going to go further, in fact, a little independent of what happens in wage-setting. Of course, it would have been positive if wage-fixing had contributed as much as possible to the continuation of the continuing training reform, but it is managed by the social partners. We're from the Government's side to continue working on all the parts of the competence reform. One question is, for example: opening up to the real competence concept, where, with our rules, we can make people with real skills fit into higher education without having to go through a long cut of formal qualification in order to enter. We can continue to work with flexible forms of training, that colleges, universities and high schools are organized so that people who are in the labour market can use it and get into it at the same time as they do the job – or at least get to a flexibility that is adapted to business. We can facilitate the individual's framework; we can look at the study funding, how we can facilitate people's access to continuing education. There are many things in the reform of continuing education that we can do with, although surely both Djupedal, I and others could have wanted us more in a pay settlement. It gets the social partners to take care of it, we're going to continue working on the continuing training reform regardless of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e217	It is good to hear that the Council of State has intended to follow up all that Storting has already decided, for all that he has now referred to, that is, the decision Stortinget has already made. But what is the potential of the reform of continuing education and training is that it should be a right for the many and not an exclusive opportunity for the few – who are continuing training today, where those who work in rich enterprises are given the opportunity to pay for continuing training, while others do not. Of course, you have to continue further training in other fields, but the key question is that we do not want to be able to honour a right that the Stortinget has already adopted, unless there is funding at the bottom to enable those with poor pay to be able to continue their training. If it is now apparent that this wage settlement does not provide a solution to the financing of the reform, the main idea of the reform will be pushed into the unknown for at least three years, perhaps even longer. So I repeat my question to the Council of State: Is the Council of State alien to the fact that, together, corruption and government must find ways to fund the reform that will enable them at the bottom of the table to receive further training?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e224	Storing and government must constantly look at the forms of funding to which we are going to contribute in relation to the reform of continuing education and training. And as I mentioned in my previous post, the study funding with the State Loan Fund and how we put it up is an important premise for the functioning of the continuing education reform. It is not true that this government is simply following up what the Great Government has previously decided – it should be lacking, to the extent that it did not follow up what the Great Government has previously decided. We announced in our Declaration of Accession that we will introduce a right for all adults to three-year-old secondary education. And that's something completely new. There is no government that has specifically declared to come. The Bondevik government also suggested that it should come. Now there's a proposal on the table, and we're going to pay for it. It's at least a step in the right direction. But there are also a number of other things, and we are going to draw up an action plan for the reform of competences with a number of intermediate objectives and measures to help us make a long progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e231	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e234	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The setting of the Steering Committee has only been partially introduced, including: the loss compensation scheme has resulted in the municipalities that have received too little money in the past still being able to pay compensation to the municipalities that have received too much for a long time. Will the Council of State help us to achieve a fairer distribution between municipalities according to objective criteria?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e241	The government is working today with the arrangement for the local economy for next year, and we are going to present that proposition to the Stortinget on 19 May. Of course, I am aware that there is a very serious and worrying situation with the large deficit that is now in many municipalities, and I am of course also aware that in that process it is also discussed – and it is necessary to discuss – whether we have a fair enough distribution between municipalities. In this context, of course, there is a discussion as to whether some of the measures that have been taken should be considered. It is also the case that the Storting has ordered the Government to review the income system. It's to be presented in the proposition we're presenting to Stortinget on 19 May, and there's also going to be some of the answers to the representative that Monsen is addressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e246	I want to follow up with the following: the head of the Rattsø Committee, Jørn Rattsø, warned quite a short time ago in a newspaper article against giving special help to those municipalities that have the greatest deficit, because, as he says, they will then have no incentive to do anything with their own operations. And my question is, does the Council of State agree with this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e251	I have to say, what I saw was that Jørn Rattsø was quoted at that point, I think it's a little too simple in relation to the serious situation in which parts of our municipalities are now in, because it just goes beyond the service offered to people, both in relation to the fact that it's being cut, and in relation to the fact that it's being added to increased self-esteem on several key welfare offers. It is a challenge that applies individually to some smaller municipalities, but especially to some larger municipalities. This government is reviewing the income system. In addition to proposing more money to the local government sector, we will also ensure a better distribution than is the case today. But I have to ask for an understanding that I can't get into the parts here today, but we'll come back to that on 19 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e256	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e259	I have a question for Councillor Terje Moe Gustavsen. Traffic safety is an important theme. However, although railway accidents have received the most attention in recent times, road accidents are taking the most lives — about 300 every year. The Government of Bondevik placed considerable emphasis on enhancing traffic safety and would, in its national transport plan, take into account a vision that accidents with fatal or fatal road damage should not occur. The aim was to present an action plan on road safety, a national road safety plan which would form a separate part of the national transport plan. Will the Council of State follow up the work of this Road Safety Plan and ensure that road safety remains a priority area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e266	I fully agree with the representative of Kofoed-Larsen that road safety work is probably one of the most important in communication work in general. When it comes to the question of what attitudes and visions you're going to have in relation to this, I totally agree that we're going to hold on to a zero vision. It's going to be our vision to bring down the number of accidents to an absolute minimum, and then it's important to have a very ambitious vision. And I'm holding on to that, because it's important that this characterizes our whole plan and in that context the development of action programmes in that way. It must be our budgetary priorities that we are thinking about security, and it is also a very central element in thinking, for example, about the environment. What I can assure the representative of is that this will be given wide attention when we present the National Transport Plan in September, and at that time we will bid how we intend to follow this up. I'm not very concerned about how it follows up, I'm more concerned that this stands out as the central theme it deserves to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e276	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This suggests that we will have good cooperation on road safety issues in the future. I want to ask a follow-up question about attitudes to driving, which is an important part of road safety – ethical thinking, for example, keeping speed limits. What will the Council of State do in this important area in the future, including: in relation to driving licence training?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e283	Let me mention three things that we want to continue and focus on in relation to traffic behaviour issues. Firstly, there is a proposal for a change in the Road Traffic Act in terms of per mille limit, which I experience and see as an important attitude-making measure. Furthermore, the Directorate-General for Road Transport will first send to the hearing a bill of credit for driving licences which essentially intends to improve traffic behaviour so that, over time, the worst traffic sins can be eliminated, at least for periods of time, and provide motivation. The third is that we will continue to follow up on driver training issues with a view to also securing behavioural conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e294	There will be follow-up questions – Inge Myrvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e297	Traffic safety has a long-term perspective, which may be the most important factor in reducing car traffic, but it is also about short-term measures that can have a significant impact. It turns out that reduced speed and control can have a lot of effect. In view of the summer, will the Council of State consider a reduction in the speed of major road sections in order to reduce the number of accidents? And will he contact his colleague, the Minister of Justice, and ensure increased control measures, so that there are visible checks on road sections where there are many accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e302	There is little doubt as to the relationship between speed, road safety and accidents. We have experience from last year when we had reduced speed limits, not least on the E18 through Westfold. These are the experiences we are reviewing, and which I will take with me in the further work, also in relation to the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for the monitoring section.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e307	Lars Rise – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e310	It has been tragic to record the recent large number of accidents in the transport sector, both in maritime transport and by road and rail. In the case of the major train accidents we have witnessed, both at Åsta and now at Lillestrøm, it may seem that an important factor has been the lack of follow-up of the directives given by the Railway Authority. I am aware that we have to wait for the results of several investigation commissions before we can determine the causal relationship with certainty. It has been known in the course of the accidents that there has been a lack of follow-up of the requirements given by the Railway Authority to both the NSB and the Railway Agency. What measures will the Council of State take in general to improve the safety of public transport in Norway? And in particular, what action will he take to improve communication and follow-up in the railway sector? Since maintenance may also appear to be an important factor, will the Council of State take the initiative to step up its commitment to railway maintenance?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e321	The President has a feeling that you started off by road and went to the railway, but it's about road safety in both circumstances, so please, Councillor Moe Gustavsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e324	I am briefed on, among other things: The Railway Authority has had an audit in relation to the Railway Agency in relation to, for example: the transport of dangerous goods and that there is a dialogue between the Railway Authority and the NSB. I'm aware that this has been a bit of a contradiction, and I'm counting on them to be cleared off the track. As regards the issue of railway maintenance, I fully agree that it is central to safety. This government will give priority to maintenance on the railway in due course because it is such an important safety measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e331	Admits Gabrielsen to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e334	As Kofoed-Larsen said, accident statistics, especially on the road, are dramatic, with 300 lives lost every year. Moe Gustavsen has now pointed to one tool to reduce the frequency of accidents, i.e. reduced speed. I have a great deal of understanding that later it goes, its fewer accidents. If the traffic stops completely, nothing will happen. But I think that the perception that prevails over the allocation of investment funds is that the criteria for this are unclear. Evil tongues have even claimed that the home address of the Minister of Transport has affected which state has been granted. I understood the previous government so that the states that have many accidents in relation to the number of kilometres of road would be prioritised in the coming road map. Is there a perception this council shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e342	Let me first say that maintenance is probably as central as initial investment in terms of road safety, and in ‘maintenance’ I then add a slightly extended concept, not least when it comes to expanding the most dangerous points. When it comes to the question of how we want to give priority to the national transport plan, we naturally come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e349	May Britt Vihovde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e352	In the context of the 2000 budget, the Bondevik Government announced that they would present their own road safety plan, an action plan related to the national transport plan. The size had no comments on this, and then I assume that the Storting was in agreement that this would come, that we would have a separate action plan with measures that were, of course, incorporated into the national transport plan and taken in conjunction with security measures both in the field of air transport and maritime transport. I was a little uncertain about whether the Council of State said he wanted to come up with his own action plan, so I would like to ask: is there going to be a separate action plan in connection with the national transport plan or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e357	I repeat first that safety work is very central. When it comes to the way to bring this into active action, I'd like to assess it more closely. However, the current approach to a road safety action plan seems to be sensible. I'll use that as a basis for the further assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e362	Last follow-up questions – Vidar Kleppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e365	It is good that we have a new government that is capable of action in many areas, at least if you want to listen to what they say themselves. So I have a concrete challenge for the Minister of Transport. It's about road safety, but maybe a road safety sector that's been underestimated, and it's done nothing about, and then I think of all the ticking bombs that go on drugs, that go on roads and on the sea. Then my natural question to this minister is: What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure that those who go on drugs cannot move in the way they do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e370	This question has several implications in itself, of course. One is drug use in general, which I'll leave here. However, with regard to the issue of road safety and drugs, there is clearly a strong and growing need to eliminate these road users. Recently, we have been informed that new equipment is being developed to detect drug use. We would like to focus strongly on making it easier to determine the drug use associated with driving a car. This is something that we both follow with interest and will prioritise in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e375	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e378	I allow myself to ask my main question to the Council of State Guess. I think we can all agree that next to home, the school is a crucial mission. Not long ago, in fact just before the change of government and just before spring's settlement of tariffs, the then spokeswoman of the Workers' Party found on school policy issues, the current government council Grete Knudsen, it was in place to ask a question to the then Church, Education and Research Minister Jon Lilletun. She referred to the majority comment from the centre parties – the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – and the Workers' Party in connection with the recruitment message where it is said that for the teachers to stand in the job and come to work, it is necessary that they have an acceptable salary, and I think the word «competitive» was also used. She said that this was a strong declaration of will, and then she approached the councillor Lilletun with the following: she wanted a confirmation that the council had understood the question. I allow myself to repeat the question to the Council of State Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e387	Unlike the representative Knudsen at the time, the representative of Dørum will not ask the question more than once, but get the answer immediately: Yes, the Council of State has understood what the Stortinget has said in connection with the recruitment notice on competitive pay. Now, of course, it doesn't mean that we're going to go into the details here from the Storting Chair and start discussing the current payroll. The employee's side presented his claims on 10 April and negotiations are under way. It would be awfully inexorable if we were to start discussing the concrete things in the payroll from here. But follow-up to the recruitment message is also important for this government, not only in terms of pay questions for recruiting teachers. In the entire working situation of the Norwegian school, we need to be prepared to get the skilled teachers that our children deserve. I think that the teacher plays a crucial role – perhaps the crucial role – in relation to what kind of education and what kind of school we can provide the children. And as I was in the past, society has evolved so that the school may have had to take greater and greater responsibility for the entire development and growth conditions of a good number of outside children. The representative of Dørum can be very safe: we're going to follow what the recruitment message said, and we're going to try to follow up as best we can, the Roman number decisions that were made in that connection. We are very concerned that we should ensure the children who grow up in Norway, a really good school and therefore also really good teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e396	I appreciate clear answers, with one-spelling words like yes. As a representative, of course, I have a deep understanding that the Council of State cannot conduct wage negotiations from the Spokesman of Storting. But I realized that what the committee did at the time was to give a statement of appreciation. They gave a declaration of values that basically blew up the usual thinking of social economists, and also challenged the way in which they often work. You had a will to do something. I'm not going to go into the details. But I'm going to be happy to follow the further course. In my supplementary question, I will be very careful to address another aspect of the teaching role, which we were so far away in connection with a previous main question, namely whether the Council of State can confirm that he will continue a line where other professional groups are also used in school, to ensure that the teacher I described as the ‘normal teacher’ can stand upright and cope with the great pressure that is in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e406	We have the situation that the municipalities in Norway are responsible for primary school, but they are also responsible for all the social assistance services that children need. I am very open to the fact that the municipalities themselves can organise it in such a way that the services that children will receive, which are social, and which are the responsibility of other professional groups, can also be linked to the school. It gets each municipality to find out how to organize it. But these services should, of course, already be a relief for teachers in such a way as to take the social problems and give the children the help they need. Of course, if it can be better organised by using the school as a framework around it, it is up to the individual municipality to do so. The important thing is that the children get both a good school and a really good upbringing and the social assistance that some people need.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e411	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e414	I have a question for Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Sylvia Brustad. KS has calculated that the total deficit in the municipalities will amount to approx. 10 billion kroner. There is therefore a need for a significant financial boost for the municipal sector if we are to be able to carry out statutory tasks and provide citizens with services such as school, kindergartens and good health and care services. We see today that school buildings fall due, students' indoor climates are too poor, kindergartens are laid down, and that cultural offers and music schools are a balancing point, with the risk of being laid down during each budgetary procedure. Sylvia Brustad earlier answered a question that the municipality's finances should be improved. That sounds very good. She also said that we should get a fairer distribution. What I'm asking about then is: does that mean that the Rattsø Committee will be followed up, that is. a withdrawal from the districts and aggravating their situation? Or does one ensure that the compensation schemes continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e423	I find it interesting that issues of deficit in the municipalities come from a central party representative, especially when we know that it was the head of the central party that previously run the local government department and left a deficit in the local government sector of between 10 and 12 billion kroner. But now leave it. There is no doubt – and I think that the representative Roaldsen and I and our respective parties are in complete agreement – that there is a very worrying situation in Kommune-Norway now with the huge deficit and the major challenges that are, whether in the school sector, health care, elderly care, kindergartens or what we are talking about. Of course, it is worrying that we are not able to maintain the welfare offer in all municipalities, and that the excesses are increasing. It takes this government seriously, and we will, of course, keep what was also said in the government statement that the revenues of municipalities should be increased. How much and how, I come back with suggestions about the Storting on 19 May. As far as the issue of redistribution is concerned, as I also answered the previous question, the Storting has asked for a review of the income system and also given some leads in trying to achieve a fairer distribution. I immediately recognize that this is no simple operation, and I also recognize that fair distribution can be seen quite differently from which part of the country you come from. So this isn't easy, but we're trying to do the best we can. However, with regard to the concrete proposals and measures, I cannot respond today – we will return to that on 19 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e430	The Minister of Local Affairs is probably aware that it has not been in the last two years that the 5-10 billion kroner in deficits have occurred in the municipal sector. It depends on reforms that have been implemented in the past and that the Labour Party has been involved in and implemented. The reform of the health care system, the reform of the PU system and the 6-year-old reform have been in deficit for quite a number of years. The former municipal minister, from the Senterpartiet, was out and promised that the municipalities would have to be compensated for the huge deficit that exists today, and the current municipal minister has also been out and said that the municipalities must have a better economy. I am very pleased with the signals that are coming, that you want to improve the municipal economy, and I assume that it will also benefit the district councils, so that you do not face a comprehensive community merger.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e435	We don't have to have a long discussion about why the deficit has increased. It's true, as the representative Roaldsen said, that something is related to the way we budget for investments in primary schools, care for the elderly, etc., but that's not the whole explanation. In any case, it is a fact that in 1997 there was a deficit of less than NOK 2 billion and in 1999 there was a deficit of NOK 12 billion. That's a pretty big difference. But leave it alone – we have a common challenge in relation to it. It takes this government seriously, and we come back with concrete measures in this regard, because we need to have a modernisation also of the municipal sector locally, and there is a lot of exciting happening. But I think we just have to look in our eyes that no matter how much we can do to renew and modernise, which is absolutely necessary, we can never rationalize ourselves away from the fact that there is now also a need for more money, and we're going to come back with suggestions on that. And to reassure the representative Roaldsen, I don't intend to add up to a large-scale coercion of the primary municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e440	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e443	In recent years, the recipe of the Rattsø Committee has shown that it is possible to get good enough finances in the municipalities by taking from the rich, it does not work, because rich municipalities do not exist – at least there are very few of them. If we are to achieve a balance, get rid of a large deficit by giving little more money, we must give the municipalities the opportunity and freedom to use the money effectively. We have to get less detailed management, less pinset management from the state, less bureaucracy, we have to get rid of grey areas in relation to county councils, we have to give the employees the job to do the job instead of meeting after meeting to save money and go faster. Will the Council of State follow up the plan of its predecessors to release the municipalities, as it has been described?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e448	The answer is yes. As the Prime Minister made clear in the government statement, one of the most important points of this government is now working on, modernisation of the public sector. In it there is a clear signal that we want less state detail control. It goes on that we want to have less ear-marked substances, for example. because those arrangements lead to a lot of bureaucracy and spend a lot of people and money sitting and making plans, reporting, etc., instead of having people out in direct service to people. We want less ear-marked means. It's not safe we can do everything from one day to another, I don't think we should believe that, but the goal is less earring. And then we also have to look at all of the laws and regulations that we make. Now, as far as I know, more than 6,000 laws and regulations – detailed in part – relate to the local government sector. It's clear that in those areas, too, we need to have a review of how much detail we control. To another point that Mr Lund said: yes, we must get rid of the grey areas that are currently between the levels of government, and that is what we intend to make in order to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e457	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e460	This applies to follow-up of the local economy. There's a lot of pressure on that very topic right now, and I understand that the Council of State has problems being concrete. But I want to challenge statements where party leader Thorbjørn Jagland was very concrete and expressed great concern and that money had to come to the municipalities already in the revised national budget in May. He goes on to say: ‘I don’t remember being so dramatic for the municipal sector before. It's no use saying that this is crisis maximisation. Municipalities need to be provided with a significant increase in money». And he goes on to say in J@gland letter of 21 February: ‘We therefore had to ‘force’ the centre parties to give the municipal sector a billion more than what was in their original draft budget.’ Then my question is, now that there is no longer any need for coercion, and the Labour Party government can add the credit to itself, if we can count on more money to come to the municipalities in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e476	The representative of Sahl can expect more money to come to the municipalities. How much and when, I can't answer now – it's a work that the government is in the middle of. But I want to say as much as we are of course very aware of the situation that is, we share the concerns that have also arisen through questions here today, and I think that the representative Sahl and others get to lubricate themselves with a little bit of patience. We're talking here about the dates 12 and 19 May, and then we're asked to understand that we get to come back with the concrete things when the time comes. I can't give a more clear answer to that today, but there aren't many weeks until you get the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e481	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e484	I have a question for Minister of Transport Moe Gustavsen. As you know, there are plans for a new route to Fornebu with a cost calculation of over DKK 1 billion so far. Now it turns out that traffic has fallen on this route, and then the question is the adjacent one: does the Council of State think it makes sense to bet on this route when you see all the unresolved problems that you have in terms of railway safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e491	I first want to make sure that the representative Steinsaker said fornebu. Did you get that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e496	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e501	Thank you. On the issue of collective solutions to Fornebu, there is a very large case in view of the plans already in place for the Fornebu development, and what is suggested. In these days, the Road Directorate is finishing some of this, but as I said, it's a very complex image. First of all, we have to aim at building up the highway, and in that context, we have to decide how to solve the track questions in relation to the road itself. In this context, we also have to decide whether to use rail or urban/bus. This is, as I said, a very complex image, where rail is one of the alternatives, but where there are other alternatives. We must seek to find the solution that provides the most effective collective provision in relation to Fornebu, and that can also be realised so that it can keep progress in line with the Fornebu development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e510	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I feel reassured that he now mentions all forms of public transport to the area after it is expanded, and that you do not see the railway as the only gratifying. Obviously, it will cost a lot of money to build such a path. Looking at this from the railway point of view, it will provide better security for the existing sections of the railways if they are to be upgraded before new sections of the railway are set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e515	It is absolutely right that we need to secure the existing rail network, but it is of course that with the volumes of traffic we will get in relation to the Fornebu development, it will involve major safety and road safety challenges in itself. So in total, this has to be balanced against each other. But I repeat what I said in my main answer, that choices that different collective alternatives to Fornebu remain, and that the railway alternative is still one of them, but not the only one.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e520	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e523	I have a question for the minister of religion, education and, hopefully, for research. The new government has been able to create considerable uncertainty regarding the organisation of the Norwegian research future and the location of the supports in Norwegian research policy. When the Stortinge addressed the research communication a short time ago, it was unanimous that it was important to evaluate the research Council reform and that this evaluation should be carried out as soon as possible by means of international expertise. Can the Stortinget be sure that the evaluation of the research Council reform will follow the plan and that the results of the evaluation will be awaited before major reorganisations of Norwegian research are carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e532	The size could be quite certain that the evaluation of the Research Council will be as planned. The tender papers are now ready. There shall be an international tender for a proper review of the functioning of the Research Council reform. The reform and evaluation of it are, to some extent, independent of how the Government chooses to organise its responsibilities. It is up to the Government itself to decide what the responsibility between the various Councils of State should be for the Research Council — or in any other area — but the evaluation of the Research Council will be independent of it. There's a discussion going on about how we're going to organize the work. After all, we've got a Ministry of Food and IT. This means that there are some functions that it is natural to assemble there, especially to get a real offensive bet on the IT side, which is what is needed. In addition, I can assure the representative Wage that the Government will do its job to follow up the research report. The priorities that have been set there and that the Workers' Party was involved in the Storting are also determined, regardless of the kind of responsibilities that the various Councils have. So both the evaluation and the efforts to invest more in research, which is absolutely necessary if we are to manage to create the business we are going to have in the future, will go their way independently of the organisational discussion that takes place internally in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e544	I thank you for your answer. I have registered with interest that the Council of State in an interview with the university newspaper Uniforum assures that he intends to continue as a research minister. It would also have been a bit of a bumpy abbreviation for the department if the F were to fall away. [[Laughter]] So there's a reason to look positive. However, I do not fully agree with the Council of State that the issue of the association of the Norwegian Research Councils is a purely internal organisational issue. In fact, if you want to transfer responsibility for the Norwegian Research Council to the Ministry of Industry, it will probably require a reversal of the Research Council reform and the establishment of a new Basic Research Council under the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. I believe this suggests that the government must be in a hurry to decide, and that it will return to the Stortinget with clear notice, because it is not certain that this question is exclusively an internal organisational issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e553	Let me first say about the name that I agree with the representative's salary that it will be a sad name. Maybe it should be called church, education and learning, so that I could become a cool minister, but that's what we're going to get back to. The organisation of the Research Council is not an internal organisational matter for the Government. Of course, the whole reform of the Research Council should be involved in and discussed by Stortinget, and we did so in the context of the research communication. However, the responsibilities of the various Councils for the various parts of our activities are internal government issues. What will be the consequence of a basic research council or applied research council, if there are such types of changes, we will get back to it, but the lead in the research communication, that we should have a closer integration of basic research and applied research, that we should have strong coordination of research policy in Norway, is firm. That's what I'm going to follow up and join in putting out in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e560	There will be follow-up questions – Elsa Scarbøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e563	Of course, it is the government's responsibility to take this responsibility for research policy internally, but it is also of interest to the Storting and not least to the research communities what is happening. Then my question is, when can we get a clear answer to this question? In addition, how does the Council of State itself view this fact that research may be carried out on business premises if any of this is transferred to the Ministry of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e568	Again, the research policy of the Workers' Party and the Government is firm, regardless of the organisation we are going to have. We want strong coordination of research policy, and we want an emphasis on basic research, which the research communication also provided. Whatever form of organisation we choose, research will not take place on business premises, but research has a very important role to play in developing new jobs, new businesses and new businesses. So once again, the organization question and the bet on it, we're going to come back to it. We're trying to get that clarification pretty quickly, because there's considerable attention around it, and because we ourselves need to get it in place quickly. It won't take long. Without me wanting to temporalize exactly, it will go reasonably quickly until it's in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e573	Petter Løvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e576	More and more, the Right share its view that research and education are central to further development. Then I thought it was interesting and positive what the Council of State now said, that the follow-up work on the research message will go on regardless of the organisation. In the previous spontaneous Question Time, a week ago, I asked the alternative research minister, Grete Knudsen, whether this means that already in the revised national budget, the Government will propose a concrete and mandatory action plan for stepping up Norwegian research. I did not get an answer to the question at the time, and I would therefore like to ask the same question to the other alternative research minister, Trond Giske: is it such that we can count on a concrete and binding escalation plan in the revised and money for this further forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e583	The Storting has asked the Government to come back with a review of the escalation plan for the research in the revised, and we are going to mention it in revised form. We also provide a reference to the Hervik Committee's position, but the treatment of the Hervik Committee with consultation and concrete follow-up must come later. Then we talk about alternative research ministers. Let me say that almost all the government councils have a lot of research on their budget chapters. In this way, all government councils are research ministers and must invest in research. Regardless of organisation, higher education institutions and universities will be the most important research institutions, especially in basic research, and a significant proportion of Norwegian research takes place there. What is central to the Government is to achieve the coordination of research policy that we need, and an increased commitment, especially to basic research. It stands firm, independent of organization, and I believe that all 19 of the government will join in and follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e590	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e593	Let me first state that it is the responsibility of the Government to organize its government apparatus and place responsibility under the various governments. So it's up to us in the opposition to have opinions about the wisdom of what's done. I agree with the representative, Giske. The Council of State was very ready today to say that he has brought with him the wish of the Storting that teachers should receive a competitive salary, knowing that the Council of State already knows a great deal about what had to happen in the revised national budget, and that budgetary work is well under way. It is reassuring that the Council of State already knows that he will be a budget winner. I would also like to have confirmed that he knows, as he has now said, that the plan for stepping up research is coming, and that in this way it is ensured that he will also be a budget winner in that area, perhaps already revised, but definitely in the 2001 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e600	It is a good attempt by the representative Sponheim to get things out of both the revised national budget and the 2001 budget. We tried similar exercises when we were in opposition, with the corresponding lack of luck that the representative Sponheim will experience now. Of course, we will not be able to address the details either in the revised national budget or in the budget before 2001, until it is presented. We have seen the result of the recruitment message in Stortinget about a competitive salary. What a competitive salary is, and what kind of result it produces in the year's wage settlement, are the negotiations shown. What kind of results we get in concrete terms in each budget as regards the follow-up to the Research Communication will also be a budgetary matter, first for the Government when we present the budget, and then for the Storting when the Storting gets it under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e608	Marit Tingelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e611	My question is also about organisation. ‘No Minister for Research’, read the journal Research Forum No. 4th@item: inlistbox There is a great deal of concern in the research community and elsewhere in different environments because of the signal that has come from this government regarding the organisation. I've recently read what the headmaster of the University of Oslo says. He says that if this transfer of the Research Council goes to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, there should be a separate Basic Research Council under the Ministry of Church and Education. What does the Council of State think about this in relation to seeing basic research as the absolutely fundamental? This seems to me to be across what Stortinget wanted about interdisciplinary and coordination of research. But I still want to hear the views of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e620	Both I and the Government fully agree with the conclusions reached by the Stortinget after the research report, that a significant part of the increased investment in research in the future must go to basic research. It is also the case that basic research has more and more concrete results in relation to business creation. So the partial artificial distinction between applied research and basic research is to be careful, because that distinction is more and more being erased. We want to bet on basic research. I have also registered Norum's statements. I have also registered other people who have opinions about how the research work is to be organised. We'll be able to clarify that quickly, also because the research community needs to know what kind of organization they're going to deal with. So we're going to do that job fast. And again, it's to the Government. However, the priorities of the Research Communication will be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e627	Then the time for the oral questioning was too long, and we go over to the ordinary questioning rhyme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e632	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Employment and Administration, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 8, from the representative of Mr Hedstrom to the Minister for Health, is absent, as the questioner is not present. Questions 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 from Annelise Höegh, Tor Nymo, Jørn L. Stang, John I. Alvheim and Dag Danielsen respectively to the Minister for Social Affairs will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs, who has been removed. Question 11, from the representative Tor Nymo to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be raised by Rita H. Roaldsen. Question 12, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be raised by the representative Harald T. Nesvik. Question 22, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Fisheries, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 23 and 24, from the representatives of Steinar Bastesen and Tor Nymo respectively to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has left. Question 24, from the representative Tor Nymo to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative Rita H. Roaldsen. Question 25, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for the Environment, will be addressed by the representative Terje Johansen. Question 30, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister of Justice, has been withdrawn. Question 31, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Justice, will be raised by the representative Lisbet Rugtvedt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e667	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘It has been reported in the press that ESA requires Norway to implement the EU Social Security Regulation on the continental shelf. [[EFTA Surveillance Authority]] It shall ensure full social security for all those who live abroad and work on a Norwegian base, despite the fact that these are secured by social security contracts. The requirement goes beyond the EEA Agreement, which does not apply to the socket. Nor does any EU country practise the regulation on the pedestal. Will the Government slow down the increase in social security expenditure by rejecting the ESA’s requirement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e676	I can confirm that ESA has stated that the EEA Agreement’s coordination rules on social security set out in Council Regulation No. 1408/71 should apply to Norwegian continental shelf. In a so-called reasoned opinion, ESA has ordered Norway to implement this. That Council Regulation has been incorporated as part of the EEA Agreement. However, it has not been applied to Norwegian continental shelf. The reason for this is that, on the basis of an interpretation of the term ‘territorium’ in Article 126 of the Agreement, the EEA Agreement does not cover the continental shelf. ESA and Norway agree on the interpretation of the geographical scope of the EEA Agreement. However, the ESA claims that the scope of Regulation 1408/71 must be functionally defined. The ESA also underlines the need to take due account of the objective of the EEA Agreement to establish a uniform European economic area, by promoting a level playing field and compliance with the same rules. The government now has the matter under consideration, and it aims to close the proceedings in the near future. A number of cross-cutting reasons apply in this case, and I am asking for an understanding that I cannot go into these more closely today. The EEA EEA Committee will be consulted before sending a reply to ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e692	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, which was nothing but a summary of the facts of the matter, and not an answer to my question about the Government will reject the regulation. It is a fact that no EU country practises the Regulation on its continental shelf, and there should therefore be no reason why Norway should do so, when Norwegian continental shelf is in addition exempted from the EEA Agreement, and those EEA Directives should therefore not apply to Norwegian pedestal. First of all, accepting ESA's requirements will result in significant costs. In the long term, it could be several hundred million dollars. Secondly, the EEA Agreement would also be predestined to apply to Norwegian pedestal if the functional requirement previously applied by ESA were to be passed on and more and more directives were accepted. I would therefore like to repeat the question: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see the fundamental problems of accepting this directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e699	Let me first say that since Odd Roger Enoksen sat in the previous government, the question could now indicate that the matter had been settled there. It wasn't, because the previous government had to ask itself the same questions as the current government does. Let me say about the practice of other EU countries: the Commission has informed that the social security regulation is applied in full or in part by the UK, the Netherlands and Denmark. However, the trade unions in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands state that this is not the case. Denmark applies this Regulation but only for EEA citizens employed in EEA companies. The ESA then relates to the information provided by the Commission. The question of creating precedent is one of the important questions that we are now considering. It may also be different if we are going to lose any case in relation to the EFTA Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e709	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘The maritime defence has been involved on several occasions in collisions between MTBs and fishing vessels’ purse seiners on fishing grounds. In these collisions, fishermen have often found that they have to wait too long for the damage done to the farm. These episodes are unfortunate for the defense and for the fishermen who lose money. What will the Council of State do to remedy the damage caused to fishermen by the defence, and what changes in procedures are in place to avoid these events?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e718	Sea defence naturally has a large-scale operation at sea, and unfortunately this cannot be avoided as a result of damage to fishing gear. As far as I know, there have been two conflicts of use between the snuppo vessel and the Sjövetsvarts in the last three or four years. It's not a conspicuously high number, but of course we have to try to get it down. I fully agree that the economic settlement for damage should take place quickly. The starting point for all damages is that the victim must have covered the full financial loss resulting from the damage. In the cases mentioned in the question, Section 42 of the Saltwater Fishing Act establishes an objective liability for damages to damage caused to fishing gear and lost catches. In the cases where the defence is responsible for the damage, the victim strives to be offered rapid payments to ensure that the losses incurred by the fishermen are minimised. This would normally be advance payments intended to cover, for example: repair costs. In my opinion, therefore, the necessary procedures are in place to ensure a rapid and proper financial settlement in such cases. The reason why the settlement may be withdrawn in some cases is that there may be disagreement about the facts and the financial loss and the amount of the damage caused. With regard to the defence procedures to avoid such events, I would like to stress that the maritime military authorities are striving for a good dialogue with fishermen to avoid conflicts. And there are a lot of measures taken to get there. I mention briefly the most important: every year, fishing and farming organisations are convened to a briefing meeting to obtain information on the Marine's annual exercise activity. This allows fishermen’s own organisations to be informed about the exercise activity, so that conflicts between fishermen and the Navy can be avoided. In advance of each exercise, information on fishing activity in the areas where the Marine shall exercise shall be provided to the marine vessels. Fishery information is collected from the Coast Guard/farm guard and fishermen’s own organisations, not least. New information will also be available during the exercise if changes in the fishing activity in the area concerned occur. In addition, an oral briefing is given on the fishing activity in advance of the exercises. It follows from this short catalogue that there are many measures to avoid these unfortunate incidents, which I assume that both the representative Bastesen and I agree should come down to zero as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e727	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I fully agree with his conclusion. Otherwise, there was a good list of a number of assumptions that should give good results, but that doesn't always do it. When there is a collision between the Marine and a fishing vessel, there are often two things that come into the picture: it is the criminal law for the master of the vessel, and then it is purely economic that has to do with the damage that has been done. The two things must be seen independently of each other. Unfortunately, however, the defense has shown arrogance when a settlement was to be made, and is concerned that the captain of the ship in the appropriate district has appealed against the captain. They will therefore not make up for the damage caused to the boat and the shipping company concerned, and it is scandalous.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e734	The criminal law issues have not been addressed in the original question, and I am unknown that there has been some important issue in the matters I have received a brief overview of. The point is, of course, that those who are entitled to compensation under the law have a right to compensation under the law. And to the extent that courts, if they were to get into the picture, make decisions that are crucial to that, it's a matter of nature. So here we have to separate one from the other. What's in my answer is the central thing about what Mr. Bastesen asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e739	I thank you for your answer. This suggests that the Minister of Defense may be interested in the routines in these cases, because it is not possible that we can live with criminal judgements to determine whether people are being dealt with for damage caused by the defence. I would consider it negligent when walking with 35-40 knots of speed clumsy up the side of boats that are lying and drawing not. That's not good sailorship. But let it go. At least when the damage occurs, the settlement must be possible. I would suggest, referring to the first thing I said, that the Minister of Defence sends out a directive and asks people to use reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e744	Now, the representative Bastesen has been more at sea than I have been, but I'm a little uncertain about how far a general directive on using reason when out, and that's essentially on both sides of this issue. Obviously, this must be the basis for how these things are handled. Overall, I believe that we have good cooperation between the fisheries organisations and the fishermen's organisations and the defence. That must be the explanation that I am familiar with in fact only two reported cases in the last three to four years of conflicts of this kind. But I would like to help follow up on this sector and be aware of the issues that the representative raises in his supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e759	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e765	I will ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The new State House in Bergen is still available to disabled people, one month after it was opened. This applies to, for example, missing parking spaces, access, reception area and a missing toilet. Additional hinting about the feature has not been performed. What will the State Council do to make State buildings comply with accessibility regulations here and in other buildings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e774	I assume that the regulations to which the representative Vihovde refers are the applicable regulations on requirements for construction works and products for construction works, laid down by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on 22 January 1997. Paragraph 10-1 of the Regulation requires that any building can be used for its intended purpose and that the design of the building provides good possibilities for the use of orientated persons and persons with reduced mobility. What this means in practice is described in sections 10 to 21 and 10 to 31. I would first like to stress that it is my clear premise that access to and accessibility in the State House, whether it is now in Bergen or elsewhere in Norway, should be at least as required by the regulations – and I repeat: at least it should be as required by the regulations – i.e. provide good use for all. I can further inform the representative of Vihovde that the State House in Bergen is located in an urban development area with a high degree of exploitation. Parking spaces are provided by municipal planning authorities in the applicable regulatory plan provided that they are covered in the neighbourhood, for example in the CityGarrhage. I understand that this is not necessarily the best solution for the disabled, and will therefore ask Statsbyggen to take this case up with the municipality of Bergen to find a better solution. With regard to the problems of arrival, I can inform you that the quarter is still under construction with regard to roads, pavements, etc. This work is carried out under municipal control and is expected to be completed in the near future. Measures will then be taken to simplify, inter alia, the emergence. for wheelchair users and, where appropriate, others with reduced mobility. In view of these user groups, a new approach to opening the entrance door will also be put in place in the near future, as the current one with automatic opening does not function properly. State buildings, after what I have been informed, are otherwise not familiar with the fact that there is something to postpone in the reception area. I can also inform you that the building has a total of six disabled toilets, four for employees and two for visitors. The toilets on the 1st and 11th floors are intended for visitors, while the others are placed on the second floor for use by employees. After I have been informed by Statsbåg, the disabled toilets are in accordance with the requirements of the regulations in this area. It is not unusual for some faults and defects to be discovered when moving into new houses. Some may be due to new or changed functional requirements; some may be returned to bad or faulty work done by the builder or contractor. In any case, the requirements of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions shall be complied with. I therefore assume that State Building is doing what is necessary to bring all the building technical conditions into proper order, including in the case of the State House in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e793	The size of the population deals with an action plan for the disabled for 1998–2001. One of the objectives was that disability policy must lead to public and private enterprises not functioning at home. It has been one of the left's heart things to make society accessible, and when a person experiences that the state, which can use market power, does not follow up completely, something has to be done. I noticed that the Minister of Labour and Administration said that he wanted to see it so that the regulations would at least be followed up. Then my follow-up question is: are the 1997 regulations designed so that you can perhaps sharpen them up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e798	I don't think the regulations are designed in such a way that there should be any basis for tightening them up. What I said is probably more an expression of a declaration of will that the state should go ahead with a good example, and that the state, both as a builder and in and of itself as the builder of construction and offers to be available to everyone regardless of disability, in that way ensures that standards are set for whatever is also applicable to the private market. That's what has to be our ambition. I mentioned a number of issues that it is clearly possible to improve. I can assure you that neither I nor Statsbyggen have any desire for the state to offer something that is worse than what the regulations require – rather the contrary. I'm going to make sure that state buildings in their business follow this up in the future as well. It was supposed to be missing!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e803	In the context of the treatment of the action plan, the Bondevik government also proposed that State Building should have a review of their rentals or ownership today, to adapt them to the needs of people with disabilities. The Committee highlights the importance of total, up to and down to construction availability. Another problem area was the possibilities for municipalities to grant exemptions from the Planning and Building Act and regulations. When we're inside the State House in Bergen, where in one way not everything is arranged from the beginning, as pointed out by the Council of State, because of space shortages and difficulties in space disposal outside, my question is: The Committee and the Stortinget wanted one to limit the possibility of granting exemptions, everything should in one way be clapsed and clear. Is the management started when it comes to limiting the dispensation possibilities of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e810	I don't think there's any doubt as to what was the Storting's intention with the comments and the decisions that were made. The building was technically completed a month ago. The planning process for this building started long before this council took over, and it was a different government and another government council that gave signals and directives in relation to the launch of this project, so I can't comment so much on what has happened in this process. What I can tell myself about is that I'm going to assure the management of State Building that these areas are being prioritised in planning, design and construction in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e825	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e832	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘It is now ten years since the tragic fire on board the passenger ferry ‘Scandinavian Star’, where 159 people lost their lives. What has happened since then to the training of firefighters for firefighting on board ships, and what is per. the current status of the so-called RITS project; [[Marine rescue effort]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e841	Following the Scandinavian Star accident, a number of measures have been implemented by the maritime administrations that have reinforced the fire safety at sea. The fire safety of a ship depends initially on the implementation of preventive measures on board and the proper functioning of the ship’s own preparedness. These conditions have improved significantly in recent years, as the fire on the passenger ferry ‘Prince Ragnhild’ in July 1999 also showed. Therefore, assistance from land-based fire services will be an additional standby, if necessary. In the light of the Scandinavian Star accident, the Fire Protection Act was amended in 1993 in such a way that the Fire Service is obliged, on request, to assist in the event of fires and other incidents on board ships. In 1995, a test system was set up in which some fire services were trained and equipped for more demanding tasks than the general obligation to provide assistance. The testing scheme was based on agreements between the Directorate for Fire and Explosive Protection and the municipalities of Oslo, Larvik, Kristiansand, Bergen and Bodø. That's a total investment of four million. kr in the strengthening of fire protection in those municipalities. Most of the funds have been used as a means of empowerment. About 200 firefighters have completed a weekly marine rescue course at the Norwegian Fire School in Tjeldsund, and approx. In addition, 30 managers in these fire services have completed a three-day management course at the University of Harbour. Over a five-year period, we have thus arranged for and invested considerable resources in this preparedness. I therefore assume that the municipalities that have received equipment and training maintain this in order to be able to comply with the obligation to provide assistance established by the Fire Protection Act. For the year 2000, 500000 SEK has also been allocated for the maintenance of equipment, training and training of new crews of the Directorate of Fire and Explosive Protection. In addition to this, we have concluded a five-year agreement with the municipality of Larvik which allows for a longer-term effort in terms of training, exercises and up-to-date equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e854	I thank you for your answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, that some funds have been spent on the RITS project. And it's true, as the Council of State says, that per. Today, Larvik Municipality is the only municipality that maintains a fire protection with regard to fire at sea. In the beginning, Oslo, Kristiansand, Bergen and Bodø were also included. For various reasons, for which perhaps the Council of State can explain, these municipalities are no longer involved, and, as the Council of State says, there are also considerable resources spent on training and tools — in order to use it as an expression — to assist in fire at sea. This is then not maintained in these four other municipalities, as far as I can understand. And likewise: These firefighters who in their time were trained to use this, may already be gone. As far as I know, there is no system today that suggests that there is any new training of these fire crews.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e861	I know that there has been a conflict about an economic compensation for emergency tasks related to RITS operations in some municipalities, as the representative Width pointed out. That question, however, is a question of tariffs, which I believe must find a solution between the social partners. In addition, I find reason to stress that both I and the Directorate of Fire and Explosion Protection believe that with the means we put in for the maintenance of the standby, we maintain a satisfactory preparedness in the event of fires and other marine accident situations. It will be up to the municipalities themselves to make sure that this preparedness works as intended. And I repeat what I said in my main response: I assume that the municipalities that have received equipment and training maintain this in order to be able to comply with the obligation to provide assistance established by the Fire Protection Act. Although there is a disagreement about the economy of some of the municipalities, it is still the case that you have an obligation to comply with the Fire Protection Act in the event of accidents, including at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e868	I think it is reasonably defensive of the Council of States to refer to a settlement of tariffs in such a serious matter as this we are talking about here. This is an annual allocation of 4 million. kr in order to maintain a marine fire preparedness. Here in the country, we have a tradition of getting bored when the accidents happen, and then we're pretty round about giving money. I guess that's good. But can the Council of State imagine that we can be better off devoting funds to the prevention measures, so that we do not experience the accidents? I just want to refer to the newspaper of 10 April, where the director of the Directorate of Civil Protection, Helen Bøsterud, says something of the same thing: ‘The preparedness of Norwegian society today is too poorly organised, and the situation is so serious that life, health and values may be unnecessarily threatened.’ This applies not least to marine fire protection. For this reason, I have to ask the Council of State: What measures does she intend to take to put this into practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e880	I fully agree with Mr Width that the most important thing is to prevent such tragic accidents from occurring. When we talk about accidents at sea, it's important that there be prevention on board ships, but it's also important, of course, that we have an upward fire service in a broad sense that works if the accident should still be out, and that can come when any accidents occur. With regard to the specific issue with regard to the RITS teams, I have to repeat what I said: there has been a disagreement about an economic compensation in any of the municipalities, does not mean that they do not have a responsibility if an accident occurs. The question of the financial compensation is therefore a question between the parties that I cannot, on behalf of the Ministry of Local Affairs, go in and decide. I believe that the parties must find a solution. However, there is a responsibility on the part of the municipalities concerned – regardless of the disagreement – to step in the event of an accident. We spend a lot of money on prevention, and of course we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e892	‘The closure of the fishing industry on Ingøy in the municipality of Måsøy has been announced after the central state nutrition and district development fund has rejected an application for loans and grants for a new building recommended by the SND in Finnmark. [[SND]] Continued housing and on-site optimism are likely to depend entirely on the realization of the new building. How will the Council of State contribute to maintaining the settlement in a place close to one of the best coastal fishing grounds?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e899	The general guidelines for SND’s activities state – as the representative Lund is well aware – that projects supported by SND must be able to stand on their own feet after support. As I understand it, the SND in this case has been very much in doubt whether it will be possible to achieve such profitability, even if the project was given the highest legal grant rates. The reason for this is, among other things, that we are in a period of low fishing quotas, and there is already great regional overcapacity on the reception side. At the same time, the Fisheries Guidelines state that SND should seek to contribute to finding solutions for the reception of fish in fishing communities where its own reception is essential for employment and housing. As I have been informed, SND has therefore agreed to consider a smaller project than the one that has been promoted, where one might cooperate with other actors on further processing. Maybe it'll be possible to achieve a satisfactory profitability that way. It is the SND's own responsibility to make decisions in individual cases. I have great faith that, in cooperation with local actors, SND will find solutions that can help secure the future of the Ingøy community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e908	I thank you for your answer. It's good to hear that there is still a possibility. The concrete project now presented is the result of several adjustments in the course of the process. Local banks say that it is profitable enough and will contribute, assuming that SND is involved, but the state, which has additional responsibility for housing, says no. A unanimous nutrition committee has asked for a plan to be drawn up to ensure that active fishing communities are provided with a functional reception facility, given, of course, that a fishing community without reception facilities will move people from when the option – i.e. neighbouring use – is as far away as it does here. Of course, we have to be able to solve such questions as this. If not, people move away. The question is, when we are going to help with the settlement, for which we have a responsibility, do we have a different tool than the SND to contribute? Does the SND have a clear enough instruction to impose housing considerations, as must be done in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e919	Let me first say that I share Mr Lund's view that it is important to maintain housing and maintain employment in the districts too, so we do not disagree on that. When it comes to the question of SND's guidelines, I kind of feel that there's a slightly different debate, which, of course, can also be important to take, but which I don't want to go into here and now. To the specific question that the representative has raised in relation to fishing on Ingøy in Måsøy, I just have to repeat what I have said, that SND has agreed to try to go in and find a solution in a slightly smaller project than what was originally promoted, where one can also enter into agreements with other actors on further processing. I have great faith that this could lead to SND, in cooperation with other actors, finding a solution that will enable us to help secure the future of this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e926	The SND guidelines are, of course, central to this issue. SND locally experiences and assesses the matter quite differently from SND centrally. SND locally perceives the matter so that they have to help, and it is the SND's elected board that does. SND in Oslo listens to the administration of SND in Finnmark. The elected and the people experience the stabbing eggs on which the settlement basis balances in such places. Without this tiny enterprise – which is small though it is a corner stone company – the settlement disappears. So then we lose a small dam against relocation, and if it fails, the big dams will also fail. I'm going to think that in such a case, a calculation should be drawn up to show what it's going to cost the big community if we get a relocation. The bill comes elsewhere, including: in the Oslo area, where we get increased pressure. Is there any such calculation within the SND today? Does the Council of State assure itself that before the thumb is turned down in such cases, which are perceived locally as so important and so obvious?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e931	I must stress that the decision in such individual cases is a matter for the SND to have. It is clear that the guidelines in relation to SND are an important discussion in itself, but I feel that there is a slightly larger discussion that we cannot take into account in this matter. Of course, I am aware that there has been some disagreement between SND locally and SND centrally in this case, but I think it is possible to find a solution to it. If it doesn't get exactly the way it was supposed from the beginning, I think it's possible to find a solution – which is then a little less extensive than what was planned, but which can be a good contribution to ensuring the settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e946	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e952	I will ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘The interest in the architectural competition for the new opera house in Bjørvika tells of the high expectations associated with the project. How will the Council of State facilitate the state effort not only to benefit the capital, but to have ring-fenced effects for the whole country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e961	On 15 June 1999, the Stortinget took a two-point decision on a new opera house. The first point is on the construction matter itself. The second point says that an opera and ballet model will be developed in Norway before the completion of the new opera house. I see it so that there's a close relationship between the two points. They form a whole. This must mean that the new opera house should be arranged so that it can fulfil a function not only for the Norwegian Opera and the Opera National Opera, but also for the opera and ballet environments around the country. This must include, inter alia: the house has resources made available to different opera and ballet producers. In addition, I have understood that the management of the Norwegian Opera wants to facilitate that the best performances around the country can also be shown in the new opera house. I attach great importance to the model to be developed for opera and ballet distribution in Norway. There is now a very joyful and growing interest in opera and ballet around the country, which was fully documented at the conference organised by the Ministry of Culture together with the Norwegian Opera and Norwegian Cultural Council in Haugesund at the end of March of this year – the first of its kind in this country. I assume that the model to be developed will help to strengthen and further develop the environment. In this way, we will be able to develop our skills not only as a value in itself, but also as an incentive for our National Opera, the Norwegian Opera.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e970	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is how opera art is a relatively new art start in Norway, but through the efforts we have made, among other things. National and regional operas, as the Council of State says, have been given a tremendous boost by the interest in this art form over the whole country. It is then natural for me to ask the following follow-up questions: What role does the Council of State see that district operas should play in the dissemination of opera art in Norway, and what instruments does the Council of State see that this can be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e975	The Ministry of Culture’s work on developing the model of opera and ballet mediation in Norway will take place in close cooperation with the various actors in the field. Thus, before the summer of 2000, a reference group will be set up to assist in the work, and the investigation itself will start until the autumn. There is now a great deal of interest and attention related to the new opera house to be built in Bjørvika. I have high expectations that the house will be a lighthouse and a symbol of the whole country's cultural life. The house will be an inspiration for opera and ballet art that can benefit the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e985	This question, from the representative Annelise Höegh to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e988	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Social Affairs and Health the following questions, I might call it: ‘There is no requirement for knowledge in Norwegian for foreign doctors from the EEA territory, but all those who are authorised to donate alcohol must, through a written test in Norwegian, demonstrate that they understand the law. In Brandbu, a Kurd who has lived for 14 years in Norway and operated a restaurant for two years is at risk of having to stop because he cannot take the test orally or use an interpreter. Will the Council of State consider the possibility of an oral test or the use of an interpreter?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e997	Under the alcohol law, those responsible for the sale and donation of alcohol in accordance with the law shall demonstrate the necessary knowledge of the alcohol law by taking a test. This test does not require extensive Norwegian knowledge. This is about a so-called multi-choice sample, i.e. the applicant ticks a form in the event of an expected correct response, without having to draw up his own written reply. The use of foreign-language dictionaries is permitted. During the introduction of the knowledge test, it was assessed whether there should be access to interpreters. The conclusion was that you didn't want to open it up. The decision focused on the possibility for those responsible to communicate with guests, customers, suppliers, employees and control authorities. This means that they must have a minimum of Norwegian knowledge. In this situation, oral testing or the use of interpreters should be unnecessary. Such a scheme could also add significantly to the testing effort of the municipalities and make the scheme more costly and inefficient. On this basis, I cannot see that it is appropriate to reconsider the question of the use of interpreters. The same will apply to the question of the possibilities for oral testing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1006	I have to say that I am amazed and disappointed that the new government is on such a flexible line in relation to what this specific matter is all about, namely, giving immigrants and refugees the opportunity to integrate into Norwegian society by the fact that they are actually employed. So here we are talking about a guy who has lived in Norway for 14 years, who speaks Norwegian, but who does not control Norwegian in writing. Therefore, it is not correct as it is claimed here that a minimum of Norwegian knowledge should mean that it was immaterial whether the test was written or oral. Unfortunately, this man has documented twice; he does not control Norwegian in writing. It is also not correct when the Council of State says that under the alcohol law knowledge should be documented by taking a test. It does not say a word about this in the alcohol law, but it is probably in the regulations. On the part of Storting, the most important thing has been to document knowledge of the law – it should be obvious. But we have not asked for an oral test. I have to ask the Council of State once again to evaluate this relationship. Here's an immigrant who doesn't control the writing, but who masters the oral.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1017	The alcohol law requires those responsible for the sale and donation of alcohol in accordance with the law to demonstrate the necessary knowledge of the law. In assessing this, it has been concluded that the documentation should be done by taking a test, as I have explained. The concerns pointed out by the representative Høegh have been promoted when assessing how this should be done, including the consideration of additional work and other problems for municipalities if a different solution was to be adopted in the direction she proposes. And it's after weighing between these different considerations that the conclusion has become what it has become.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1024	In fact, this written test requirement, which is not statutory, imposes a stricter requirement on those who are to be authorised to give alcohol than on doctors from the EEA territory, who are not faced with written requirements to demonstrate knowledge of Norwegian health legislation. I'm also familiar with the fact that to take the driving test you're allowed to have interpreters, so I've hurt to understand why the department adopts this negative attitude. You might have had the best reasons to do this when you made the regulations, because it has to be in the regulations. But now, when you get a fairly rough example of an immigrant who has actually managed to get his own job, who drives to the satisfaction of the municipality, where the municipality itself expresses amazement at the fact that it needs a written test to – he has full support in the municipality – I think that the ministry and the health minister, no matter how new he is, should be open to reconsidering the matter. That has to be the least we have to be able to ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1031	I cannot rely on an assessment of the considerations underlying the provisions relating to EEA doctors, except that, as far as I understand, there is also a requirement for the employer to ensure that they satisfy the linguistic skills required by their professional activities. Otherwise, I accept the advice I received from the representative to take a closer look at the specific matter. Of course I'll do that. At the same time, I would say that this is not an expression of any general negative attitude towards those who are in such a situation as is described here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1041	This question, from the representative Tor Nymo to the social minister, will be raised by Rita H. Roaldsen. The question will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1044	‘Number from the Statistical Central Bureau shows that the real value of G has increased by only 24 pst. from 1967 to 1998, while the real value of the wages and salaries of the economically active has increased by 62 pst. during the same period. This means that the income of pensioners has significantly slowed down in relation to income trends elsewhere in society, which has led to a hollowing out of popular security. Will the Council of State go in to regulate the basic amount in line with the income development of the economically active?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1051	It is true that the growth in the basic amount, and therefore in supplementary pension pensions, has been consistently slightly lower than the wage growth in the period from 1967 to 1998. However, in the same period, the minimum pensions have increased more than the employee income. In the 1990s, the growth in the basic amount has been between 0.2 and 0.4 percentage points lower than the wage growth of the comparative groups, which consists of private employees in the LO/NHO area and public employees. At the same time, the minimum pensions have increased roughly in line with the average earnings of the like-for-one pensioners comparison groups, and slightly more for pensioners. There are several reasons why there has been no full agreement between the development of supplementary pension and labour income. Several social security schemes, in particular in the 1980s and early 1990s, included several elements other than the regulation of the basic amount in settlements. This applies, inter alia, to: the housing aid scheme, the guarantee pension for young disabled persons and the escalation of the special supplement. This was at the request of the country’s counterparties in settlement. A lower rate of growth in the basic amount than in wage developments over time will, first of all, lead pensioners to a lower rate of income development than economically active ones. In the long term, this will result in pensions giving a lower level of compensation compared to previous income than intended. This is not desirable. The size therefore decided last autumn to change the guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount. It was in the context of the treatment of the national budget for 2000. In the new guidelines: ‘The objective of regulation shall be to provide pensioners with a pension for pensioners in line with developments in income in working life and in line with the principles and objectives underlying the implementation of the other income policy framework.’.» In the past, the trend of income should be «in line with the expected development of economically active». The change involves emphasising both the historical and the expected evolution of the basic amount in relation to wage developments. It is also new in the guidelines that the assessment of wage developments in the previous year, among others. shall be based on average annual wage growth for all groups as a whole and not only on wage developments in the LO/NHO area and the public sector. Through the new guidelines, the objective is a clearer emphasis on the objective of parallel income development between pensioners and economically active people. A close overall increase opposed an automatic indexation of the basic amount in relation to a price/wage index. Otherwise, it is up to the Government, on a proposal from the Government, to adopt regulation of the basic amount of the population’s money and the increase in the appropriations allocated to the government budget as a result of the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1080	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State itself pointed out in the answer, there has been a strong underregulation of the basic amount of social security in relation to wage developments elsewhere in society. When the Storting decided in 1966 to introduce the popular interest, the assumption was that the basic amount should be adjusted in relation to the wage trend in society. It was also a prerequisite that people with middle income and full earnings would receive a pension equal to 66 pst. of the income. Today it is only 53 pst. of the income. As the Council of State says in its reply, it is right that the Stortinget should approve the negotiated social security settlement. However, it is the government that is responsible for negotiating the social security settlement, and it is the one who is responsible for providing the framework. Therefore, I would like to hear whether the Council of State wishes to follow up the new guidelines adopted by the Stortinget during the treatment of the national budget for 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1089	I am not going to go into concrete negotiations to which the representative here refers, but I can confirm that the Government will, of course, establish them in accordance with the assumptions laid down by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1097	This question, from the representative of Mr Jørn L. Stag to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik. The question will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1100	‘The State monopoly on wine currently offers only 18 liqueur varieties to consumers in Norway. The Finnish Alko offers 90 varieties, while the Swedish Systembolaget has 200 different types of heavy oils. It seems to the Council of State that it is good policy that the Norwegian State monopoly can only offer 9 pst. of the types of beers in relation to the Swedish monopoly offers?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1107	I believe that the wine monopoly has a good policy in this area because, within the overall objectives of its business, it is developing its supply of starch types in line with consumer demand. In this context, I do not want to pay particular attention to the number of beers as a percentage of the supply in Sweden or Finland. On the other hand, the monopoly on wine must focus on what foreign and Norwegian suppliers want to offer in the Norwegian market. I would like to add that ‘starch beer’ is not the same product in Norway, Sweden and Finland, and that this ratio will have an impact on demand and supply. In Norway, ‘starch beer’ includes all beers containing more than 4,75 % by volume of alcohol. The corresponding limit in Finland is 4.70, while the Swedish Systembolaget has the exclusive right to sell all beer containing more than 3.50 % by volume of alcohol, i.e. also the beer that is commonly called pils in Norway. At the request of the Vinmonopolet I have been informed that there is a great difference in the markets for liqueur beers: In Sweden, Systembolaget sold approx. 130 million litres of heavy beer divided into 200 brands, i.e. approx. 650 000 litres per day. mark. In Finland, Alko sold approx. 17 million litres divided by 90 brands, i.e. approx. 190 000 litres per day. mark. In Norway, a total of 582,000 litres of starch was sold last year. This figure includes the so-called order selection and Christmas beer. The 18 marks appearing in the ordinary price list of the Vinmonopole sold 320,000 litres, i.e. only 18,000 litres per day. mark. The figures from the Vinmonopolet say that it actually has a larger sample compared to the sales volume than the other two monopolies. The Norwegian market is small, and the Vinmonopolet reports that it has problems getting offers from the wholesalers. In conclusion, I can point out that the dominant beer market in Norway today is the grocery trade, which has an annual sale of approx. 230 million litres of beer up to 4.75 % by volume of alcohol. However, I do not have information from the industry about how many brands are offered here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1126	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am not very surprised at the conclusion. It is probably in line with both his own party's policy and with the policies of the previous government, namely that the starch beer should be on the wine monopoly. It is no wonder that you have problems getting offers from foreign suppliers, and it has a little to do with the way this type of product is sold in Norway. These include: difficult to obtain the beer types as some demand, and it is difficult when you have a state wine monopoly that does not even take the initiative to offer its customers what they want. My question, to the Minister of Health in this case, is whether the Council of State will take the initiative to investigate whether the beer should come back in the retail trade, as many would like.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1135	First of all, I can confirm that my answer was in line with my party's policy in this area. When it comes to the real question, if I want to take any initiative to bring the beer back into the grocery trade, I have to answer that there is currently no current issue for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1142	I notice the answer from the Council of State and I think it is sad that you will not, at least on the part of the Government, assess the situation we have in relation to the type of kerosene. It's no wonder you have problems getting more varieties of beer into the Vinmonopole with the limited number of outlets that the Vinmonopole has. Among other things, we have on our part, a strong desire to increase the prevalence of wine monopoly sales, and also greater opportunities to obtain more varieties of this type of product, because this will not be sold at the additional wine monopoly, but will be at the expense of other varieties. My question will again be to the Minister of Health: What is the reason why you will not consider selling this kind of beer in the grocery trade? Does it have any special negative effects with respect to the common beer?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1149	Since the representative in his first question referred to the situation in Sweden and Finland, I would like to point out that in the retail trade in Norway, beer of a higher alcoholic strength is sold than in both Sweden and Finland. Moreover, I believe that the situation that exists today, with the sale of Norwegian hard beer through the Vinmonopolet, is a result of weighing the different alcohol policy considerations and also of consumer considerations. As for the issue of the number of wine monopoly sales, I feel that there is a different problem than the one that has been raised in terms of the number of liqueur brands in the wine monopoly sales that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1159	This question, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1162	I ask the Minister for Health the following question: ‘The use of anesthetic as a treatment for heroin users has gradually increased in some European countries, not least Spain. An anesthetic treatment scheme for drug addicts was planned at Aker Hospital for a while, but was stopped for financial reasons. Will the Council of State contribute to the launch by the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance of the Aker Hospital’s offer of anesthetic treatment for heroin users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1171	I am aware that there are some drug users who have major problems with traditional detoxification methods and that the use of anaesthetic in these cases may appear relevant from a medical/professional point of view. The municipality of Oslo receives approximately this year. 54 million. in exceptional grants from the Ministry of Drugs for action by drug users. The municipality has not applied for funds to start detoxification with anesthesia. However, there will be no objection on the part of the Ministry if funds for such an action are given priority under the significant grant framework. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in 1999 granted a grant of DKK 500000 to ITA AS, Individually Adapted Derusion, under the foundation of Fredrikstad, to set up a centre for this type of detoxification, such as: may involve the use of medicinal products and/or the detoxification of opiates during anesthesia. The centre will also be able to offer clients from Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1180	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I consider very positive. Treatment for the detoxification of heroin users and other drug users with anesthetic was used in Instead as early as 1992, and this treatment has spread to all continents. However, such treatment is not available in Norway today, in addition to what has now been reported in Fredrikstad. I am aware that the detoxification of drug users of various kinds with anesthesia has been practised in Spain for several years with very good results. The treatment consists of three to four hours of light anesthesia with medical and social follow-up over nine months. In Spain, the result is 60 pst. freedom of movement after 12 months. Has the Ministry studied this treatment scheme in Spain, and if not, will it do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1187	I repeat that we in the Department are positive within the framework of this type of treatment, and in the further work we will also seek all the information and experience gained with this in other countries, including Spain.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1192	I thank you again for the answer. I must regret, however, that the project that was planned at Aker Hospital was stopped, because we should have had a more complete and better offer than we have today for the anesthetic treatment of drug addicts. What is particularly beneficial in this type of detoxification and treatment is that this form can be used against all types of drug abuse, not only by opiate detoxification. This is very important, because those who are not opiate users have some of the same major problems. The costs of this treatment are relatively low, especially in relation to the costs incurred by MARIO, the methadone project, at Ullevål, where, in my opinion, the costs are unreasonable. And I want to ask the Health Minister if he and his department will go in and review the cost of the methadone project on Ullevål.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1201	I have noticed the assessments made by the representative Alvheim here. As his comments show, the treatment applies to both Aker and Ullevål relations within the Municipality of Oslo, and we will address the questions raised here with the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1209	This question, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1212	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs, who is here today being answered by the Minister for Health: ‘Elderly centres are a popular and important offer to the elderly. They are of great prevention importance in order to reduce, for example, the need for hospitalisation sites. In many of Oslo's cities, like many other municipalities in the country, this offer is now being cut. This is because the offer is not required by law. What will the Government do to secure the elderly centres?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1221	Elder centres have probably 40 years of tradition in Norway, not least through voluntary work and in cooperation with non-governmental organisations. The Elder Centres were originally launched as an action for cities and agglomerations. The first elderly centres were already established in the 1950s, but it was not until the 1980s that the centre operations were seriously speeding up. From 1979 to 1989, the number of centres almost doubled. The provision in the centres varies according to local circumstances and the wish of the municipalities to invest in the measure. A study carried out by the Norwegian Gerontologischer Institut in 1992 showed that the proportion of operational expenditure of the elderly centres covered by the municipalities had decreased from year to year. At the same time, statistics from the Statistical Centre for 1998 show that there has been an increase in the number of elderly centres with 100 new centres in the 1990s. Evolution varies slightly from state to state. Only two counties have experienced a decline in the number of elderly centres from 1993 to 1998. In the other counties, there has been an increase from 263 elderly centres in 1993 to 333 elderly centres in 1998. In Oslo, the number of elderly centres has remained stable during this period. It is reported from the Municipality of Oslo that the elderly centres are a focused area that the municipality focuses on in the prevention work. The adaptation of older people’s activities is in line with other services, according to the population development of each city and in relation to the economic framework. As a result, the elderly centres are closed down in some parts of the city, while other parts of the city can set up new elderly centres. The increase in the number of elderly centres in the last decade should suggest that municipalities consider this as a good measure to which they wish to invest. In addition, I would like to show that in many municipalities there has been a deliberate investment in volunteer centres as a complement to seniority centres. On behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, NOVA has carried out a four-year research and development project on the elderly. The project has been carried out in cooperation between NOVA, the University of Oslo, the Geriatric Department of Ullevål Hospital and selected elderly centres. The project programme covers several sub-projects and has been aimed at: to help the elderly centres gradually become an offer to all residents of our country to provide insights into the situation of users and non-users of the elderly centres, in particular with regard to health, quality of life and function, to work towards closer cooperation between the elderly centres and municipal authorities and to strengthen the centres' place in older policies at municipal level in order to build up systematic skills in centres; The centre project has now been completed. It has provided a good overview of the operation of the elderly centres, and good models for the establishment and operation of elderly centres have been made visible. Dissemination of results will continue in the future. However, I consider this to be of little relevance with the law-enforcement of the elderly centre at this time. I think we should be careful to legalise individual measures and thus bind the municipalities to specific solutions. The stability of Oslo and the development of the rest of the country in the last decade, with the creation of elderly centres, also do not mean that there is a need for law enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1251	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now those data were referred to here, from 1993-98. The background to my question is that there has been a dramatic development since that time, among other things. has, for example: The Municipality of Oslo has been trampled on, and the elderly reform has not been followed up by sufficient resources from the state. I got a feeling that the council here is kind of going backwards into the future when he doesn't take inward the developments we've seen lately, which are dramatic. Some of the positive effects of the elderly centres are this combination of voluntary efforts and some public support. The council replied that it was not relevant for the law enforcement of the elderly centre, but I did not get a response to what he would do to cope with the dramatic developments we are now experiencing. For example, he wants to. implement a package of measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1260	Now, first of all, we want to look at the development that is allegedly taking place in the past, or that has taken place in the very near future, and try to get a better understanding of what causes lie behind it. It may be in the light of the fact that the kind of things that the representative here points to will be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1265	I thank the Council of State for the last answer, which I experienced as more positive than the first. State Council Tønne was, among other things, very positive in the previous question time when it was about dental care etc. for the elderly, and therefore I have a great hope that this will be grasped. If this will not be done, I allow myself to come back to the matter on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1272	Does the Council of State wish to respond? - No, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1278	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Wegfinans A/L concluded on 1 December 1999 the collection of tolls at E16 Solli height. In total, 400 million were collected. the cost of the road system was 195 million. krones. The rest, 205 million. kronor, has gone to operation, interest and up/down of the toll station. The Council of State believes that this is the right way to drive road financing when only about half of the tolls collected go to the road project itself?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1287	The Solli Height–Wek route was adopted toll finance in 1986. The entire installation was assumed to have been paid down during 1999. The project was expected to be in line with the local decisions and the Stortinge decision on toll financing. That's a total of 452 million. SEK, of which 254 million. kr, or 55 pst., has gone to the road development. The total interest expenditure is about 30 pst. of the total toll revenue, while the operating and administrative costs amount to approximately 15 pst. Thus, the low share of toll revenue that has gone to the development itself is primarily due to the fact that the project is financed by a loan. For the sake of order, it should also be noted that funding from the State budget as an alternative has significant costs. Due to high interest rates in the late 1980s, a relatively large proportion of tolls have gone to pay interest. In order to give the best possible loan conditions, guarantees are normally given to county councils, possibly municipalities. Lack of such guarantees in this case has resulted in a slightly higher interest rate than the company would otherwise have achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1296	I thank you for your answer. It's probably just as bad for many other toll funding routes, and there's also a lot of places, as I know, that are even worse than this. Most other countries, especially Sweden, have said that driving this type of road development is too expensive. I have an additional question: does the Council have any idea of what the total cost – operation, interest and up/downgrading of the toll stations – is for all the toll stations in the country per. years? What are the total costs that have so far gone to all the toll stations that are and that have been taken down?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1305	Some overall overview of total administrative and interest charges I do not currently have. But I would generally add that according to the information I have obtained, you could say that the collection and administration is about 10-15 pst. of the total in relation to the tolls collected. With regard to the interest burden, it will vary from project to project, which of course relates to the amount of the pre-recovery, the amount of debt financing and the guarantees provided. This will be available as a whole when the projects are promoted for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1312	I thank you for your answer. I hope I get an overview of these expenses later, because it's interesting what the drivers have to pay and how little they actually get back. Now, in these days, there is a flood of applications for toll projects – they come in close proximity from every municipality and every county, and to us in the Committee on Transport, there is a lot coming in rows and rows. There are rumors that there are, as someone says, 50 or, as others say, 70 applications from the Council of State or the Directorate of Roads. It might be interesting to know how many toll projects there are now, and how many toll projects you might have planned to promote. I refer to an article in the VG, where a lot of applications have been listed for such projects around.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1321	I would like to point out, and of course I agree, that it is very important that as much as possible of the revenues of the toll projects go directly for the purpose of the project. But it is also obvious that the interest burden on the projects will depend on how the projects are financed, and it is explained when they are promoted by the Stortinget. How many toll projects you now have in planning, I have no overall overview of, it will also depend on the stage at which each project is. But of course there will be an overall presentation of this when we present our national transport plan in September this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1329	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘If you want to travel to the mountain, to Finland, with the Bergensbanen, you can experience to measure the amount of 3 weeks in advance. If you get space, you can risk having to stand. On return from the winter holiday 160 travelling parcels were packed among baby carriages, skis and luggage. NSB thinks they don't have enough material. What will the Council of State do to ensure that travellers with the Bergensbanen are properly offered?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1338	The traffic on Bergensbanen has a large concentration of travellers on weekends, in summer and during the periods associated with winter and Easter holidays. NSB seeks to meet demand variations on weekends by increasing seat capacity. Based on economic considerations, the NSB does not intend to acquire material to take all traffic peaks in absolute terms. NSB indicates that, with the exception of three to four trains on weekends, most departures are available. Assessment of material needs will, of course, be a continuous process depending on the overall development of road traffic. In winter, demand has increased, and the NSB will therefore increase supply beyond the usual level of Easter. With the introduction of tilting trains also on Bergensbanen, there will be more train departures and thus the total seating capacity will increase. In addition, the NSB will continue on a bike train in the summer, which can also be used as its own skiddog in the winter. The fact that several people have to stand on some departures is related to the fact that during the winter and Easter holidays the NSB has chosen to leave those travellers who do not have a space ticket instead of rejecting them to the next train.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1347	It is very gratifying that it has been a general traffic development with increased passenger numbers on Bergensbanen. That more and more people want to travel to the mountains and then use the most environmentally friendly means of transport, namely the train, is very positive. It is nice that the NSB started more measures, but I thought this was a little late. By marketing, one more passenger is provided. When one cannot set up enough materials to carry them properly, it gives a negative signal to those who want to travel. It has been discussed to do as a do on the Runway, get private actors on the track that can provide an offer for people who want to travel to mountains in the high season. Will the Minister for Transport consider whether this might be relevant at Bergensbanen?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1356	I fully agree that in many ways this is a joyous issue. The opposite would not in any way have been so joyful. With regard to the extension of the offer, it is also assumed by Storting that NSB BA’s offer is based on commercial considerations. Here, of course, you will also consider which signals you send out when your capacity is too low. I trust that the NSB will focus on this in the future and will make sure to adapt the capacity to the needs. As regards the question of any private offer, there are no plans to place such offers in addition to the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1369	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The rail station in Hedmark was closed in December 1999 by the State Railway Authority for Departing and Entrance. The result has been a taxi bill of approx. One million. krones. Does the Council of State consider this to be the proper use of public funds, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that travellers receive the best possible offer in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1378	In December 1999, the State Railway Authority entrusted the Railway Agency with the immediate effect of ensuring that there was no disembarkation or boarding or that the public were on track 2 at the Stange station. The decision was justified on the basis of a safety professional assessment of on-site conditions. Before the supervision had taken its decision, it had given the Railway Agency the opportunity to take the necessary action without having to comply. The Ministry of Transport confirmed its decision of 1 March of this year. The Norwegian Veritas has now been asked by the railway station to assess the safety of all stations having a similar design as Ståge station and to propose any measures. For Strange, Veritas proposes that a new side platform be built. The railway works are in the process of installing a temporary side platform, based on Veritas' recommendation, to be ready at the beginning of June. The old intermediate platform will be torn down. The Railway Agency will then apply to the State Railway Authority for the simultaneous access and disembarkation from both tracks. I have also noticed that the closure has resulted in extra costs when using a taxi, but is of the opinion that safety must come first. Responsibility for the carriage of passengers lies in this case with NSB BA. Following the closure of Track 2 by the State Railway Authority for boarding and disembarkation, the NSB chose to maintain the offer for the passengers by taxi from Tang to Stang and from Stang to Hamar in the take-offs that were taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1389	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a reflection of what has happened at Stange Station. The Council of State said that a temporary side platform should be built to be completed at the beginning of June. This is positive, but in my view will take some time. As I understand it, travellers have to use a taxi that NSB has to pay. It does not seem to the Council that until a fully developed solution is available at Stange Station, a lot of money has been spent on such expenses, money that could have been used to advance the project and reduce the extra disadvantages that travellers will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1396	I dare remind you that, in addition to a flashback, I also indicated that there may be solutions here. In terms of costs, I believe it makes sense that the NSB has the best possible transport offer pending that the stop station can be reopened for full traffic. Otherwise, people who naturally go to the station change their travel habits and stop using the railway. In the long term, this could mean a greater financial loss for the NSB, and I feel sure that it is these assessments that have made the NSB choose the solution you now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1403	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Can the Council of State promise that passengers will not pay this extra cost for increased taxi use, as has been the case up to now, until the stop station is open again?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1410	I assume that the practices that have been followed so far will also be followed until further notice, pending a solution to the problem of the summer under the clear condition that the solution meets the requirements set by the Railway Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1418	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Sweden, the Post and Telecom authorities have instructed mobile telephone operators to practice portable numbers, i.e. the customer retains his mobile phone number even if he changes the telephone company. The scheme is justified by the fact that the change of operator leads to a new number, which most people refuse. As a result, competition between companies is severely restricted. What will the Council of State do to bring about a similar practice in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1427	The postal and telecommunications supervision provides for the introduction of mobile operator portability in Norway by 1 September 2001 and has notified decisions to that effect under the Administrative Act. The mobile numbers of GSM 900 and GSM 1800, and subsequently UMTS, shall be covered by the scheme. That time has been set in line with a report drawn up by a working party on supervision and a consultation process carried out by interested parties. The technical solution recommended for the introduction of mobile number portability is largely based on standards completed recently. It will therefore take some time for the necessary functionality to be realised in the mobile operator’s network. Where appropriate, the introduction may take place at an earlier date, if technically feasible. The EU has not yet required the introduction of mobile number portability, but allows each Member State to be free to introduce it. In Sweden, after I have been informed, it is not yet decided from what point in time number portability should apply to mobile operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1438	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The question relates to the principle of who owns the telephone number. Is it the property of the user, or is it the property of the telephone company? This means the costs to users in the form of postcards, business cards, advertisements, etc. If you switch numbers in time until any implementation of the system that allows you to keep your mobile number even if you change companies, this will result in expenses for the individual user. So I hope that the Council of State will take care to get this going as quickly as possible, and that he will try to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1445	I have the clear ambition that we in Norway will continue to be in the forefront of the development of the area of communication, but we have to recognise here enough that we have a restriction on the technical possibilities. And, as I said, it's decided to introduce number portability into the mobile network – I also want to show that number portability has already been introduced in terms of geographical and geographically independent numbers – and we aim to ensure that this can happen as quickly as possible, also as mentioned, if possible before 1 September 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1453	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘After the imposition of a charge for the use of tipping tyres in Oslo, an exemption has been granted for breakage cars, call-out vehicles and disabled persons with a parking certificate for persons with reduced mobility. Many disabled people have paid the annual fee from the date of its introduction. Will the Council of State contribute to the reimbursement of the entire amount paid, possibly from the date on which the exemption from the levy was introduced?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1462	I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are currently no exemptions from the system of high-charged tyres for some groups of drivers. However, the Ministry of Transport is working on the follow-up to the decision of the Storting of 20 December 1999, which requested that the regulation on the charge for the use of heavy duty tyres be amended in order to exempt breakage cars, call-out vehicles and disabled persons with a parking certificate for persons with reduced mobility from the payment of the fee for the use of heavy duty tyres. However, the time spent on regulatory work makes it possible to make the derogation only applicable in the coming winter. Regarding the issue of a reimbursement scheme for the disabled person, which has previously paid the annual fee, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Transport does not have the power to instruct the Municipality of Oslo to reimburse the fees they have legally received under the applicable regulations. The question of any repayment of amounts previously paid is therefore a matter that must be settled with the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1469	This is a question that concerns many of the disabled people who depend on getting to know their car. And if you're disabled, it's not that easy to get a car that's stuck, off farms again, without getting others to help you. The problem has been that there has been a lack of information about the scheme, and no information about what they have already paid for is being paid back. Otherwise, I see from the Council's response that this is a matter to which you come back. But I would like to ask the Council of State if he will ensure that information to the affected is provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1478	Let me first say that I intend to send the change of regulation to the hearing at the beginning of May of this year, and with a six-week consultation period, to which I would suggest that it be shortened, it will be possible to lay down a new regulation before the next winter season. When it comes to the question of information, it's primarily a task for the Municipality of Oslo, and I assume that you provide information both in terms of the conditions they are now and if the regulations change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1488	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The Executive Board of Post Norge BA has dealt with a plan that will result in the closure of more than 500 post offices. The plan includes offering the country to take over premises and employees to develop public service offices, a model for which the Stortinget has expressed its support on several occasions. Will the Council of State take initiatives in relation to other departments concerned in order to develop public service offices that can also provide the postal service before we receive a new round of closures of post offices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1497	The post is facing major challenges. The traffic across barriers in the post offices goes down, while the Post must be available and provide service throughout the country as before. This is the background to the Posten’s restructuring plan. The Ministry of Transport aims to promote a roll-over notice on the conversion of the Posten dispatch network in May. The message will include: contain a presentation and assessment of the conversion, as well as the service, personnel and financial consequences thereof. The government’s assessment of the Post’s relationship with the public service office and the Post’s offer will also be discussed in the Communication. Other departments concerned are, of course, being involved in this. As regards the government’s more general assessments of the establishment of a public service office, this will be followed up with the Stortinget. A working group set up by the Ministry of Labour and Administration recently reported on various issues related to the establishment of a public service office. The report will be an important part of the basis for the Government's further work on the matter. The government, and therefore all the departments concerned, will intensify work with public service offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1506	I thank you for a positive response, and I share the views of the Council of State on the Post's challenges. There has been a great deal of goodwill in the case of public service offices, but there is little power to act. It has been almost four years since the Storting made a decision to wish for this scheme to be extended in the light of permanent arrangements. The central government has been based on local initiatives, which have been very difficult because state agencies have been quite willing to participate in public service offices. In my view, a central package solution is needed, where central government agencies are required to participate in the development of public service offices combined with municipal services. My question to the Council of State is: Will he take the initiative that state agencies are required to participate in the development of that model, so that we get a service office model that can provide extended services?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1515	I fully share the views of the representative Myrvoll about public service offices, including the historical description. In the further work, the Government will build on local needs and initiatives, but it is also necessary to bring in the state enterprises and to see this as a whole, and in this context it may be appropriate to consider also setting up other state agencies to participate in this. This will be the basis for the Government's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1522	I noticed that the Council of State said ‘to participate’. I think it's very important that the state agencies not only base their participation on what regional heads of state find out that they want to participate in, because it's going to be a lot: this is my table, it shouldn't be bothered by anyone else. What worries me a little is that we have spent four years – with several different governments and a lot of goodwill – without anything happening. As the plan can now be seen, the round of closures of post offices may start after New Year, i.e. in just under a year, and then one can say in one way that if it happens without the development of the model, the train has passed. Will the Council of State aim at trying to put this model in place in time before the post offices are closed – and before the post office staff are out of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1534	Developments in government and, for that matter, municipal enterprises also require that work be intensified around public service offices, for the development now seen in the Post Office is also seen to a certain extent in other state enterprises. I fully agree that this is a work that now needs to be intensified precisely because one sees this whole development. As I said in my main answer, based on what we now have on the table from the sample, and the plans the Post has, we want to intensify the work and try to get ahead of it, and then come back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1547	I allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: «Roadway 60 between Stranda and Hellesylt has been connected for 17 days in March, and for shorter periods, due to many breeds and large breeds. This has created an unsustainable situation for both passenger and freight transport. The road is a threat to life and health, and it also creates major problems for business in the area. What would the State Council like to do to solve these problems?'
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1556	I have been informed by the State Road Administration that the problems at Rv 60 between Stranda and Hellesylt are mainly related to snowfall, and therefore the race hazard is limited to parts of the year. Alternative solutions are available to protect the road. One solution is to build two short tunnels on the most exposed routes, at a cost of approximately 90 million. kr. However, adequate race protection of the road involves the construction of a 5 km tunnel and a 1 km new road today, at a cost of around 250 million. kr. The municipality has to decide whether to give priority to the project on the basis of the framework put at the disposal of the county of the National Transport Plan 2002-2011. This project, together with other important projects in More and Romesdal, must compete for priority with the Rv 653 Eiksund link.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1565	I thank you for the answer, although it was both defensive and a little clarifying. We were many who noticed that the Prime Minister, in his declaration of accession, had nothing to do with road and transport. This was disappointing, and we had hoped that at least we would have a better transport policy than the previous government was able to achieve, because here we are simply in the middle of the core of district policy. Here you can get opportunities for an offensive business. Moreover, when it comes to racial protection, we have the security aspect. It's just like the Council of State says, that it's only part of the year that this is a problem at Rv 60, but we're talking about the whole thing in half a year. Row 60 is a typical example of many others in More and Romesdal. The priorities should be local, and they have been done locally. But the main problem is that the roadways have been halved in the last few years, and that means that we're going to get more and more in arrears. Does the Council of State think that this situation is acceptable and will the Council of State address these serious issues, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1574	The Government’s Declaration of Accession focused strongly on the development of industry and the conditions for economic development throughout the country. Good communication opportunities are a vital prerequisite for such a development. As regards racial protection on the road referred to, this project has the fourth priority of row 60 among large racial protection projects in the county. I could mention other projects. Time doesn't allow it, but I will come back to this in connection with the national transport plan. I would also like to point out that in this year's budget there are special appropriations for racial protection. It is a willingness to follow this up – we will take it further, but then in relation to the priorities set by the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1583	I am pleased that the Minister for Transport now says that good communication is important for the development of business in District Norway. What is more unclear is what the Minister for Transport will do with this in concrete terms. As I said, we're always going to be able to do it locally. But I think there are several steps that need to be taken, and I'd like to right if the Minister for Transport agrees with me. The only thing is, it has to have multiple funds in it. We have to put an end to the drying out of road vehicles that we have seen for many years. The other thing I might have wanted to clarify is whether the Minister of Transport will follow further the exciting attempts that have been mentioned and that Right has been working for many years, with public/private cooperation not only on construction but also on road operation. The third is the cost – which we have been very busy about – of using these roads, i.e. the level of fuel charges. I would like to have a Memorandum of Understanding from the new Council of State in these three areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1592	I think one minute might be a bit of a mess with that entire program statement. But let me just briefly say the following: We welcome the invitation from the Right to strengthen public spending in this area, because, of course, the requirements are more than what the funds go to, and therefore priority is needed. In the case of public/private cooperation, I will come back to assessments of any pilot project in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1611	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1617	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1620	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The need for the development of fishing ports is great and the appropriations proposed do not extend to: Subsidies for the development of fishing ports shall be contingent upon the ownership of the municipality or private sector. Therefore, such facilities are planned no more than the need suggests, and therefore the cost-benefit effect is high. Re-disposal and cut-off in the funds have reduced the rate of expansion, and plants in progress need to be stopped. What will the Council of State do to reverse these developments in a positive direction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1629	It is true that there is a great unmet need for fishing ports. It has been reported to the Coastal Works approx. hundreds of port projects for state building above roof. 1064 items 33 and 45. The municipalities have also applied for grants of approx. One hundred million. kr to ports above heading 60. In addition, there is a large lag in maintenance and repair work. The allocation to fishing ports has increased from 137 million. DKK in 1998 to 177 million. NOK 2000 but there is still a lag in relation to St.meld. No 46 for 1996-97, Ports and infrastructure for maritime transport. Storting representative Bastisen says that the cost-benefit effect of port development is very high. Although there is no clear numbering material to prove it, I agree with this, and would stress that good fishing ports and efficient maritime traffic play a major role in the development of the fishing industry and in triggering the value creation potential of this industry. In some cases, re-disposals that have reduced the rate of expansion and have led to temporary shut-offs in installations that were in operation have proved necessary. The main reason for this has been acute storm damage on moles. In many cases these must be repaired as soon as possible in order to restore safe navigation conductors and berths and to avoid further degradation. The storms in winter 1997-98 resulted in several installations being postponed. In 1999, the Swedish Coastal Agency completed a total of nine fishing port projects and in 2000 six major projects were assumed to be completed. In view of the resources available, together with the desire to achieve cost-effectiveness through concentrated operations, only four new projects were launched in 1999. In 2000, five new plants will be set up. The fact that no new projects are started is related to the fact that the projects that the Coastal Plant is now launching, each of which is of considerable size. During the last few years, the coastal works have implemented a number of measures to improve the efficiency of port development and to avoid redispatching and/or stopping installations after they have started. This includes, inter alia: better pilot studies and planning before starting construction better control of the economy, progress and quality better planning and use of the equipment park The fishing ports and their importance for the industry will be detailed in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1656	I thank the Council of State for the answer, it was a useful answer she had received to read. But I really missed something concrete about how to solve the problem financially. There's not a word that there's going to be more money. It is said to be mentioned in the transport plan to be submitted. Yeah, well, it takes money to solve this. Hundreds of projects are on the waiting list to find their solution. We're talking 100 million. kr. At the same time, a new, remote-controlled train path is being debated between Oslo and Fornebu. There is only one small project of the crazy use of state money in the Oslo area, while the districts and fishing industries, which will solve employment in the future, are set aside. - When will the money come?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1661	In this context, I do not want to go into the choices between various important infrastructure projects, just point to what I said in my reply, that good fishing ports are very important for the fishing industry and value creation. And I look forward to having the opportunity to come back to these questions in the national transport plan. At the same time, work on improving the efficiency of port development in order to give priority to this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1669	This question, from the representative Tor Nymo to the Minister for Fisheries, is raised by Rita H. Roaldsen and answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1672	I will then address the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘It has been announced through the Finnmark newspaper that shrimp fishermen in Varangerfjord get the nutrient basis damaged because the fjord is full of seals and the yarns are full of crabs. The selenium scares the cod on deeper water. If the yarns are put there, they'll be filled with crabs. Often the whole tool has to be thrown. Several of the younger fishermen have said that they can't operate net fishing anymore. What will the Council of State do in such a situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1681	The King crab has, as is well known, walked from the Russian zone to the Norwegian zone in the Barents Sea, where it continues to spread further west along the coast of Finnmark. The stock is currently managed jointly by Norway and Russia and the stock is harvested as a research catch, in order to acquire knowledge of this new species, which represents a high economic potential for the fishing industry. However, as the royal crab population has grown in Norwegian waters, we have experienced increasing problems with by-catch of king crabs, especially in net fishing for cod. This is a major concern for both the nutritionists and the fisheries authorities. From the Norwegian side, we see it as desirable to increase the quota for royal crab further. We have addressed this through a formal request to the Russian authorities. The issue will be dealt with by the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission, which aims at an extraordinary meeting in June. Furthermore, efforts are being made to document by-catch problems and their impact on nutrition. In particular, practical solutions to the by-catch problems are being sought. The problems with by-catch in line fishing are small in relation to the net fishing for cod. In recent times, many fishermen have also gone over to the landline, which appears to be a satisfactory remedy for by-catch problems. Alternative fishing methods may be the solution for net fishing. A new report by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea refers to very positive results from the pilot studies on the fluting of yarns and the testing of codites. During periods of the year, the use of cod land will be a good alternative. This may be combined with the use of braided yarn, i.e.: yarn raised to approx. half a meter above the seabed. The use of such yarns significantly reduces the by-catch of royal crabs. It is now working to improve the fishing efficiency of fluted nets because the catch of fish is reduced by up to 50 pst. This problem can probably be reduced by adjusting the height and tightness of the yarns. In the light of these promising results, the Minister for Fisheries will look at the possibilities of using public subsidy funds to help fishermen develop alternative tools and thus reduce the problem of damaged yarns and reduced catches. In the case of selves, it is noted that the coastal quota has increased and that in recent years a replacement system has been established for the loss of selinvation nets along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1700	The coastal fishermen in Finnmark have now suffered considerable economic losses as a result of the crab invasion. A fisherman got over 2,000 crabs divided into 20 yarns. And as I said, it's almost hopeless to get the crabs out of the yarns, so the yarns have to be thrown. There is little to help, as the Council of State promises, researching and developing new tools. Fishermen have destroyed a lot of tools and yarns, and they need financial compensation now in order to continue the industry. If not, they are without fishing gear and will suffer great economic losses. What concrete measures will the Minister for Fisheries take? And, would you give compensation for broken use?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1707	In addition to the concrete proposals I mentioned in the answer, I would like to point out that the Minister for Fisheries will discuss these issues with businessmen and look at how best to address the challenges we face in the management of the king crab in Norwegian waters. At the end of April, the Minister for Fisheries will travel to Finnmark and will take the opportunity to discuss all these issues with those most affected by the by-catch problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1714	The Council of State says that the Minister of Fisheries will take the initiative to go to Finnmark to meet the fishermen, and I think that is positive. We hope that he can then make concrete promises of financial compensation for the damage caused to the fishermen up there. But in the case of crab and king crab as a resource if it gets better exploited, there would be nothing in the way of increasing the quotas now. Norway's Nature Conservation Association has also said that it is not protected in Norwegian waters, as it naturally does not belong along the Norwegian coast. It should therefore be possible to increase the quota so that the king crab can be caught and thus reduce the major damage and the consequences for coastal fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1721	I fully agree with the need to increase the quota for the capture of king crabs. As I said in my answer, this is Norwegian policy, and it is working further together with the Russian authorities to further increase this quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1729	This question, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for the Environment, is raised by the representative Terje Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1732	«Noise is often referred to as the repeated environmental problem. For example, a report by the Statistical Centre in 1999 shows that in 1997 in Oslo 95 000 people were exposed to indoor noise that exceeded the 30 dB Environmental Protection Ministry limit values are working on a report on possible noise reduction measures. [[SFT]] When will it be completed and published?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1739	I agree with Mr Dørum that noise is a major social problem. About 1.5 million people are exposed to the noise of their homes. Noise varies with social status. Young and lone low-income dependants are most exposed to noise. Noise reduces quality of life and can cause health problems. It is therefore very important to reduce noise loads in line with the objectives set out in St.meld. No 8 for 1999-2000, which is now being treated in the United Kingdom. The State Pollution Control Report on Possible Noise Reduction Measures was finalised and published in February of this year. The report has been submitted to the Energy and Environment Committee in Stortinget and will be important in the further work of the Government in the field of noise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1746	So I am asking this question on behalf of Dørum, who in 1977 was the case rapporteur for the noise report. As far as I have understood, in fact, Stortinget has not dealt with the issue of noise after that time. However, when the Council of State draws attention to the fact that the report has been submitted to the Energy and Environment Committee, I assume that the Committee will examine it in the context of St.meld. No Eight. Then, on behalf of the Left, I would like to say to the Committee when they address this, that in the case of those who are exposed to noise – and that is largely in the labour market – people who have the worst problems should be taken into account and not based on average indices. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the information.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1755	I just want to add that I look forward to the Storting's treatment of noise policy in connection with the big news, and I also look forward to following up that work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1763	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In some municipalities in Hedmark, wolves have been very close and have stayed only 8-10 metres from house walls and courtyards. In cases where the wolf has shown such abnormal behaviour, for example in Eastfold, the authorities have decided to shoot the animals. Will the municipalities of Hedmark have the same chance of killing wolves with such abnormal behaviour?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1772	The Directorate of Nature Management previously granted birth permits in winter for four wolf dog puppies in Eastfold, but this was not due to the behaviour of the animals. The breeding permit was granted because it is not desirable for dog genes to spread in the Scandinavian wolf population. Nevertheless, I have a great deal of understanding of the question of the wolf's behaviour. It is necessary to give priority to work on information and knowledge. This is the background to the Ministry's wish to support the communication project ‘Catch knowledge of predators’ in the municipality of Stor-Elvdal. It will be important to look into similar work in the future. The aim of the project in Stor-Elvdal is to increase people's knowledge of predators, their role and importance and their behaviour. However, it is important to stress that the presence of wolves in the vicinity of settlements is not, in itself, a sign that animals have abnormal behaviour. Nor does the Directorate of Nature Management have any basis for considering wolves acting in the vicinity of settlement as a risk in general. Under the law in force, other police carry out such safety assessments. The proposal for amendments to the game law, to be submitted with the very first, will propose to the game authorities access to the killing of game whenever deemed necessary, inter alia. to prevent injury to persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1783	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I want to comment on the following: A behavior that researchers perceive as normal, can be seen by most people as threatening and frightening. We know from research on the wolf that wolves are most afraid of men, less afraid of women and almost not afraid of children, and humans can behave so that they are perceived by the wolf almost as a prey. I am pleased with the changes that the minister has now announced in relation to the game law, but I wonder at one thing: what kind of behavior is going to take place from a wolf for it to be interpreted as there are opportunities for harm to a person? We also know that people can behave in such a way that they are injured. Who is most protected – and how does a wolf behave that is dangerous, damaging?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1790	In further work on the management of the wolf, it will be very important to strengthen the knowledge of the wolf in the population and in research in general. The college in Hedmark is doing a very important job in this context. I want to answer the general question from the representative Grethe G. Fossum about what changes we are making in the game law now. The introduction of pests will be increased with the changes it introduces. Otherwise, assessments must be made on a case-by-case basis, to which it is impossible to provide a general response.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1797	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that the Minister for the Environment has been travelling in northern Hedmark, and I would like to stress that the problems may be somewhat different further south of the county. I would like to invite the Minister for the Environment to visit this area as well. Maybe 1 June could be a good date, when the sheep's lip is, so she can gather extra knowledge about how predators behave when sheep are released on pasture. It was also discussed at that meeting on the core areas of wolves, i.e. the special protection of wolves in certain areas. The Minister for the Environment received very strong calls from the population that they did not want this. This weekend there was an annual meeting in Hedmark Arbeiderparti, where they made the same calls to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment. And I would like to ask: how can the Minister for the Environment think that she can reintroduce wolves into an area where both her party traps and the population do not want such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1806	It is important that people feel safe about the management of wolves that the authorities provide. To make that happen, it is my opinion that dialogue is a central part of the work. I want to follow up on all the invitations about contact with the population and local authorities in relation to this work. With regard to the second part of the question, I would like to point out that there are no plans to introduce core areas for wolves in Norway. Today we have a large area where the wolf can establish itself. According to the Storting decision, the exempted areas are areas of Sami domestic sewage farming. The Government is now working on a plan for delimiting this area, where wolves will be able to establish themselves without in any way talking about the core areas of wolves. This proposal will come back to us in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1816	‘From the population of a number of municipalities and some of the members of staff of the Rome Police and Leniency College, there is a very strong dissatisfaction with the way in which the police service is organised. Will the Council of State ensure that the reorganisation of the police service carried out in Rome's police districts is adjusted so that the public is provided with the necessary and expected police service, and that the intentions of the Storting and clear assumptions of continuing to have a locally anchored local police force are implemented?'
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1823	In any police district, the chief of police is responsible for planning the problem so that citizens can get the best possible police service within the resources available at all times. The police officer of Romerike has organized the operative police service in Rome's police district in three zones. The aim of this has been to have an equal police service and good professional management of resources throughout the district. The reorganization including, inter alia: a joint operating centre with a message reception usually does not involve any practical changes in the public police service. It will primarily be lenght officers in the established cooperation zone who take on the duties coming within the zone. I am aware that in isolated cases, especially when the workload in Rome’s police districts has been high, the public’s need for police services from their local police department has been somewhat satisfactory. Having said that, I must also stress that the police are going to move into issues that cannot be put off, but sometimes it may be that the police and those who report irregularities may have different perceptions of what can be postponed. In Rome’s police district, there are two police stations and ten officers’ offices. If each member’s office were to have a security and back-up service for its own district alone, this would result in far greater costs and less use of resources than coordination of police services. This would also make the overall provision of services in the police district worse. The relationship between resource use and the requested public service is an ever-increasing dilemma for a police officer, who must therefore show both reasonable levels of public access and the necessary control of the budget. The organisation of police services in Rome must be under continuous evaluation in order to best meet the needs of the public. The Ministry will follow closely in these developments, but will allow the new scheme some longer time to go by before any adjustments are discussed with the police chief.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1838	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad the Council of State will follow, but that's not enough. There has never been more resources in the police service in Rome than it is now, but there have never been more complaints than after the reorganisation. Active action and participation are now required to improve the situation of the population and employees. It is simply unsustainable, which I also know the Council of State is informed about from the population and from the staff of the Senate. Both police and service management messages are centralized to Lillestrøm outside of ordinary office hours, i.e. 80 pst. of the hours of the week, a time when there is a greatest need for local police to provide security in the neighbourhood. Local knowledge and knowledge of the need for police service at local level must determine how the service is to be organised. Do the Councils agree to this? Does the Council of State not see that such an organisation is today going beyond the offer of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1845	I can't really do anything but refer to what I said in the answer. There will always have to be a balance between meeting audiences and the best possible organisation of the service, based on efficient use of resources. Coordination in a reception centre is initially a better use of resources. The ministry has to keep an eye on the situation, but this reorganisation is so new that there is no need to do anything immediately. We want to keep up with developments before we possibly deal with this with the police chief in Rome.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1850	I could imagine how long the Council of State has been planning to keep this situation going. It is such that all changes should be based on what may be wrong with the current solution. It must be a clear premise that the offer and service should be better, and not worse, as it has now become. It is not appropriate to create good working conditions for employees when it is all organised so that the local police are so clearly frustrated that there is no opportunity to provide the service they think they can provide and that the public has been given for all years. This is about fulfilling Storting's intentions and making clear assumptions about continuing to have a locally anchored neighbourhood police force, and that it would be implemented. Here is the time for action, and I expect the Council of State to follow closely. But I also expected that something could be done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1855	Of course, I fully agree with Mr Sjøli that it is still very clear that the police department should be involved and that there should be a decentralised police force with police close to the population. What this is a discussion about is how best to organise this in the police district. I am convinced that the chief of police is also concerned about having the best possible organisation, which means that they both offer the best possible offer to the audience, and make the best use of resources. I can't give any answer here and now as to how long the department might wait to intervene, because it depends on how the case develops. My preliminary answer is that I will follow closely and, if necessary, make a conversation with the police officer in Rome.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1864	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The prison capacity is detonated and the settlement prisoner is in long queues. What will be done to advance a long-term planned prison in Eastfold?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1878	The Ministry of Justice's objective is that criminal proceedings brought by the courts shall be carried out without delay and within two months of their receipt. Recently, there has been an increase in the number of jurisdictions waiting longer than this. We thus have a delay in the implementation of compensation. The development is closely monitored and ongoing measures to optimise capacity utilisation are assessed to ensure the most effective implementation of criminal responses. Some of this problem is due to the closure of a cell block in Oslo County Prison as a result of necessary rehabilitation. This block will be reopened in the new year 2001. In addition, Stavanger County Prison is closed due to rehabilitation and will be reopened in the first quarter of 2002. With regard to the concrete planning of a new prison in Eastfold, this is being overworked. To date, the Ministry has worked on the size, criteria and functions of a new prison and, in cooperation with State Building, starts work on the construction programme and costs estimates after Easter. It is currently too early to say when the cost-framed project can be available, but progress is being closely followed up by us throughout the project period. Otherwise, of course, a new prison will depend on the allocation of the necessary budgetary resources. Any proposed appropriations will be returned by the Government during the annual budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1887	I would like to thank the Council of State for a reasonably positive response, not least in view of the fact that the situation is ‘followed closely’, that one is willing to ‘exploit the capacity’ to the maximum, and to the extent that it has started working on a pre-project. When I ask the question, it is on the basis of a statement in the newspaper on 6 April at the time. which says ‘The cows close to double’, and — not least — that there is a strong cross-political decision here in the Stortinget to get a new settlement offer in Eastfold. I expect – it is not a priority, it is not a budget framework either – that the Minister of Justice will ensure that it will be incorporated into the future budgetary framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1894	The growth of the reconciliation queue includes, among other things: a result of the ongoing challenge we face in a way to keep a balance in the criminal justice chain. When police and courts get more cases out, the need for prison capacity also increases, and bottlenecks may arise on the prison side. These include: what may be some reason why the reconciliation queue is growing, in addition to the two things I mentioned in my first answer, that both Oslo County Prison and Stavanger Circuit Prison have spaces out of operation at the moment. With regard to the issue of commitments to put them in the budget, the representative Holten is probably also aware that that type of proposal promotes the Government in relation to the budget and not out of line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1901	I thank you again for the answer. No, I'm fully aware of my long-standing work in the Financial Committee, that there can be no budget promises. But what I'm looking for is that there's a need to put in place prerequisites that create the possibility of moving on to the cross-political consensus that it is to increase the capacity of settlement prisoners in Southern and Eastern prison districts, more specifically in Eastfold. When I say it like that, it's because I know that this prison was almost in line after the so-called grey zone prison in the Ringilocks area was built. I expect that it will not be necessary on the part of Stortinget to come back with a new majority decision to push forward on the matter. I expect this to have a high priority, and that the Council of State will follow the matter very closely and thus get it in at the right time also in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1910	It is true, as the representative Holten says, that development in Eastfold and, to the extent that Tromsø is also, there are two extensions on the prison side that are very high on the list, and are seen as being of the high priority in the justice sector, i.e. on the prison side.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1918	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘According to the Tromsø police, the city has 15 persons declared uncriminalised. Some of them are very active criminals and steal daily from shops, offices and the like. Abuse of alcohol and drugs, violent crime with threats and killings, as well as fires and murders, in addition to general disorder of order, are included. The police and the courts are helpless about the situation. What will the Council of State do with this, possibly coordinated with other departments and departments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1927	Initially, I would like to make a reservation against the reality description given in the representative Hernæs" question. If murder and arson had been among the crimes committed by this group, I assume that the police and prosecution authorities had immediately responded with the indictment and promotion of custody before the courts. However, it has been reported by the Tromsø police that five-six of these persons constitute a major orderly problem. Following extensive and thorough treatment, the size has given new rules on criminal inviolability and on specific criminal law reactions: Lawbreakers who were psychotic or unconscious at the time of action and who therefore cannot be punished should be able to be sentenced to mandatory mental health protection offenders who are likely to be sentenced to detention, which is a timeless punishment. The conditions are that a offender has repeatedly committed or tried to commit serious crimes that threaten life or health and that the special reaction is necessary to protect society from new crimes. Rules on the special reaction to offenders who are seriously retarded by mental development and therefore cannot be punished have not been adopted. In February of this year, the Ministry of Justice, at the hearing, sent a proposal for rules on the special reaction to this group of offenders. Following the proposal, the conditions shall be essentially the same as for the transfer to mandatory mental health protection. The hearing period expires on 10 May of this year. The idea is that the 1997 legislative changes will come into force at the same time as those rules when they are adopted. This new special reaction system shall replace current hedging rules. As we already know, criminal law has special rules against serious offenders and chronic relapse offenders. Such persons may, under specified conditions, be subject to protection. In the case of the unpredictable, the principle laid down in the law is that they are innocent because of their state of mind. That's why they can't be punished either. Therefore, securing is not a punishment in the sense of the penal law. The main purpose of the special reactions is to protect society from future violations of law. However, in order to be able to bring a case for protection, it must, in accordance with the case-law, be a serious violent or violent crime and there is a risk of recurrence of a similar crime. A dilemma is the group that is unpredictable and annoying, but not dangerous. Normally it would not be appropriate to raise a protective case against them. Both the current provisions on safeguards and the new rules on special reactions have made a value-based assessment of the relationship between the need for social protection on the one hand and what society can withstand from painful actions on the other. Here, the Stortinget – and a broad majority of the Stortinget – has made it clear that it is the serious crimes against life and health that should provide the basis for special reactions. Moreover, it is natural that the police and prosecution authorities ensure that there are thorough and up-to-date investigations as to whether a person in the group in question is really to be regarded as imputable or not, because impregnation in the sense of the law does not need to be a permanent condition which has been clarified once and for all. If the result of such a study is that the person is likely, the result will be an assessment of the action. Through the press, it has appeared in the last few days that some of the people I perceive are talking about Bjørn Hernæs in their question, probably have been likely, but there has not been any follow-up in the form of charges. I would like to assure myself, by referring to the national lawyer, that there are good procedures for precisely assessing the integrity of a person so far as it is continuous, so that it is not even possible for everyone to assume that there is impunity. In addition, in many cases, persons belonging to the group of whom the queryor is involved will be dependent on assistance from different bodies, such as: psychiatry, drug treatment or other municipal or county services. Ensuring that these agencies are able to follow-up in the best possible way is an ongoing political and administrative challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1961	If the description of reality in my question had been my own, I would probably have reacted to it myself, because I think it was a pretty violent suggestion. However, it is a mere copy of the letter received by the Justice Committee during a visit to the Trom Police Chamber, together with a representative from the Ministry of Justice. I have to believe that the Council of State and I have the same interest in the correctness of the information given to the Committee of Justice when we are travelling. This makes the matter a little difficult to follow up, because I actually have to maintain that what is on the question is correct, and so at least to some extent the answer falls outside the framework. In the first place, I just think I'm asking for the confirmation of the Council of State – of course she's going to get a copy of the documents we got at the Police Chamber – that the documents we get when we're traveling are quality assured.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1966	Of course, it is essential that the documents received by the Judicial Committee are correct. In addition, in so far as the information received by the Justice Committee is not accurate or not, my answer is that in the case of crimes such as murder or annihilation, it is totally unacceptable that it should not be reacted. But in addition, there is a challenge and a dilemma related to more orderly disturbances of people who are unpredictable. However, I will follow up on the information provided by the representative, Bjørn Hernæs, in relation to checking the correct information.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1971	I'd like to thank you for the answer, including the first one, if I forgot. I feel convinced, as I said, that we have a common interest in clarifying these things. It is quite obvious that these terms are used in the lettering of the Trom Police Chamber, and in that case there are serious crimes within them. I feel that it's going to be a little wrong to go too deep into this until we find out whether the Troms Police Chamber has been a little light with its information, or whether it really is. But in any case, there is also in my question a call for coordination with other departments, because we know – why I am also a little humble in this matter – that the grey zone between psychiatry and crime is all, the most difficult we have, so it is important for all of us that we try to deal with it with it fairly soberly, if that is the right word in this context. Then we say it so that we get back to this matter, and in particular we get an answer by apartment on how coordination with other departments, primarily the Ministry of Health, can take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1976	I would like to take with me the call from the representative Hernæs and also stress that it is clear that there has been close cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in the preparation of the further legislative proposals on how to deal with serious mental retardation. The representative here is quite right that there is a need for coordination between many departments and departments. However, this is not just a matter of coordination at ministerial level, but also, to a large extent, a question of good cooperation and coordination at local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1991	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e1997	This question, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Lisbet Rugtvedt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2000	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘There are now strong protests in Europe on a world-wide American listening network. The Echelon network operates, according to former CIA chief R. James Woolsley, spying against other European industries. Other sources claim that governments and the political environment are also being monitored. Can the Council of State clarify what the Norwegian Government knows about Echelon, and may it be appropriate to ask for an explanation from the US authorities about what Echelon is and what it is used for?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2009	Claims that the United States is engaged in interception of communications in Europe were already made in 1998 in a report submitted to the European Parliament. The Ministry of Justice then reviewed the report and found that Norwegian interests were not affected in such a way that there was a basis for addressing this with the authorities in the United States. The press releases on Echelon last week prompted the Department to request further information on the claims made. The Ministry has therefore asked the Embassy in Washington to provide the necessary background information on the Echelon system, including any description of the system in official US reports. A similar enquiry has been sent to the EU Delegation in Brussels, where the Ministry asks to be briefed on the EU's treatment of issues related to Echelon, and the Ministry has been informed that a study entitled 'The European Union and Data Protection' has been carried out by a committee of the European Parliament. It is currently not known how this study will be followed up. However, it should be noted that anyone with access to the necessary technology can intercept non-encrypted communications. In both Norway and other countries, therefore, appropriate security solutions are actively sought in electronic communications systems. The Ministry of Justice is currently cooperating with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and with other departments concerned in order to initiate an inter-ministerial work where a central theme will be the use of encryption to meet citizens’ and business’ needs for safe communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2022	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. It is positive that the Government is now actively going out and seeking information about Echelon. The suspicion of Echelon is turning, among other things. that US intelligence may provide information that can give US business a competitive advantage over Europeans. German intelligence went out in 1998 and warned German business against sedation, and has given advice on protection in this respect. The Minister of Justice was concerned about what is done to reduce the Norwegian vulnerability to Norwegian business, but I would like to know if it may be relevant – before this work is done – to give warnings about the information presented in the government's studies related specifically to Echelon.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2031	There has already been some information through the press that it is possible to intercept communications that pass through the air. Otherwise, I think it is most natural to wait at least for that work to begin. It will be part of the work to assess whether there is a reason — and, if so, in what way and with what content — to go out with information, among other things. to Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2036	I thank the Minister of Justice again for the answer. What has emerged through the press about Echelon, raises some interesting issues related to modern intelligence, to call it that. The United Kingdom must have stated that ensuring the economic well-being of the nation can be a legitimate basis for monitoring in line with national security. What is the Minister of Justice's view of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2043	Then I think the Minister of Justice actually has to crawl to the cross and say that it is of those questions that the Minister of Justice has not thought through enough that I already want to answer it in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2051	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘What will the Council of State do to ensure a fair financial distribution of birth grants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2058	The representative Per Sandberg asks the question about what I want to do so that there will be a fairer financial distribution of birth money. It's a little unclear to me what kind of distribution the Sandberg representative here is aiming for. Distribution can be seen from a gender perspective, and distribution can be seen from the perspective of domestic mothers and mothers entitled to maternity benefits. I'm choosing to take base on both ratios. In the future, we will have a great deal of use for labour in Norway. There has been a broad consensus in Norway that wages and salaries for pension, social security and sick pay have been primarily linked to participation in the labour market. That's the way it must be, in my opinion. As a society, we cannot afford to pay wages to domestic parents, nor is it desirable to encourage more people to leave the labour market. The Labour Party wants an opposite trend, which we see women themselves want. Women's participation in the labour market strengthens women's position in society. Norwegian working life needs women's labour force. The payment of birth grant must be seen in such a perspective. Birth grants compensate for loss of income at birth and baby care. In order to qualify for birth benefit under the National Social Security Act, you must have been active with retirement income for at least six out of the 10 months before the start of the social welfare period. The income must have been equal to at least half of the basic amount, i.e. NOK 23 475 on an annual basis. Equal to professional activity are periods during which sickness benefits, sickness benefits, unemployment benefits, maternity benefits, adoption benefits or maternity benefits have been received. Assimilated to professional activity are also periods of pay on leave from the employer in the case of continuing training and periods of waiting or current replacement. Birth allowances for each parent are calculated on the basis of their income in accordance with the same rules as for sickness benefits. In 1999, it was approx. 59 200 births in Norway. About three-quarters of the women who give birth have earned birth rights. Women who do not fulfil the conditions for entitlement to birth grant under the National Social Security Act are entitled to one-off social security benefits, which in 2000 amount to NOK 32 138. In my view, it is fair for the attainment of birth rights to be primarily linked to professional activity. As the Storting has adopted the birth grant scheme in the People's Rights Act, I assume that the majority in this Chamber believe that the current scheme involves a fair financial distribution of social security benefits in connection with birth. It is a goal for me that more men should take care of their children while they are young. In a gender perspective, it is imperative that men take more care of their young children. This is not just important from a gender perspective. It is also important for the child. Good role models of both sexes provide a good starting point for further development. A development in which men spend more time with their children cannot just be made a matter of individual choices. We also need policy instruments to promote such development. During the spring, I aim to promote a legislative amendment that will allow working fathers to withdraw birth money even if their mother has not earned the right through professional activity. However, the right of the father shall be linked to the existence of a need for care after birth. Finally, I would like to say that the Workers' Party introduced the so-called quota system for fathers. It has led fathers today to spend more time with their young children than before. The working party wishes to extend the period/part of parental leave reserved for fathers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2079	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that it had a content that matches the previous statements and policies of the Workers' Party. The Labour Party uses a lot of words and formulations to clarify how important it is to get the right social distribution of resources. Lately in the Declaration of Accession of Prime Minister Stoltenberg, this was given great attention. So now it's like this, and I understand it so that the Council of State confirmed it and will also confirm and strengthen it in the future policy of the Workers' Party, that the birth allowance is allocated to a key where they with the highest total income are allocated the largest transfers. The reality is that a two-income family with DKK 500000 in total income does not contribute more to the public funds than an one-income family with DKK 400000 in income. If that's what the Council of State means by fair distribution in relation to payment, I would like to challenge the Council of State on that. When those numbers are on the table, will the Council of State still be of the same opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2086	Now the Council of State could be tempted to ask questions back to the representative, but I understand that my role is to answer the questions, so I will try to stick to them. It is the case that those who are not in working life for various reasons are paid an income benefit at birth. As I explained in my answer, that amount is slightly above NOK 30 000. If we are to extend the maternity leave, the Workers' Party also wants to extend the one-off allowance. But I am tempted to ask if it is such that the Progress Party now believes that we are going to have a system here in the country where we are all going to get paid from the state if we are at home for different reasons. It is clear that in our welfare society, we need to have minimum standards and arrangements that capture those who, for various reasons, fall outside. But I'm a little bit in doubt, even though we're one of the richest countries in the world, if we're able to find discovery for that kind of reward in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2093	The size is probably grateful that the Council of State decided to answer instead of asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2096	If I'm allowed, I'll interpret it as a question, and then I have an answer. The promotion party does not want to spend a penny on birth money in addition to what the Workers' Party wants, but we want to distribute the pot equally to each child, and that will be approximately equivalent. NOK 130 000-140 000 per year. a child. It is a fair distribution policy, says the Progress Party. Regardless of whether you make $100,000 a year or $1 million. kr a year, you get the same sum. But there's another area I want to challenge the minister in. It is a reality that someone has not earned the right through professional activity. It may be for different reasons. The area I'm challenging now is cases where mother may be partial or totally absent, but nevertheless are so lucky to have children. In such cases, it may be imperative that a father be granted leave in excess of the usual one. This problem would not have existed if the model of the Progress Party had been in place. Can the Council of State say whether there are arrangements for these families, or can the Workers' Party intend to facilitate these also by giving father a greater or equal share of the leave in the number of weeks that mother has?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2103	This is probably a new question, but I'll try to answer it. I have to say that I do not know the details of how it is today for the group that the representative is concerned about, but it is clear that when we form legislation for the future, we will try to take into account those that will fall out of it for various reasons. This is a special situation, and what I can answer the representative, is that I want to investigate the issue he is dealing with, and then we will get back to it in a later time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2113	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Viken Energienett AS wishes to upgrade the grid between Tøen and Abildsø from 47 kV to 132 kV. This affects 6,000 people. The protests have been strong due to environmental consequences and fears of falling prices on dwellings. A unanimous Urban Committee has rejected the upgrade. An environmentally beneficial solution would be to put the network below ground. Will the Council of State contribute to this being called upon as a precondition for the possible grant of a concession?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2122	The application from Viken Energienett AS concerns the upgrade of the voltage on the existing airline from Abildsø to Tøen. Plans are to increase the voltage from 47 kV to 132 kV to secure the power supply to south-east parts of Oslo. Viken Energienett AS has planned an approx. 200 metres long earth cable system into the station on Abildsø. There are no planned changes in the number of masters or dimensions of the lines themselves, and the construction ban belt will not be extended. This application is now processed in NVE. The NVE has announced the hearing of the application and its interpretation to the hearing in accordance with the rules of the Energy Act. The application has also been through a hearing session in relation to the landowners and others who are indebted. The deadline for the hearing was 28 February of this year. The NVE is now going through the questions that have been received, to see if more information is needed before you can take a final decision on whether to grant permission to Viken Energinet AS and what conditions to set this permission. The NVE's concession decision may later be appealed to the Ministry in accordance with the administrative law. As a complaint body, the ministry cannot therefore engage in an NVE case. I therefore ask that the representative Danielsen understands that I cannot go into any assessment of whether or not cable should be set as a condition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2135	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that he cannot take a position on the matter here and now. What is reassuring to me is that, if necessary, he will come back to the matter. The point here is that what it has been put up to by the Viken Energienets is a little environmentally friendly solution that creates great unrest among a population of 6,000 people. What you've added up to is you triple the current and choose a solution that's old-fashioned. A clear solution here would be to make sure that the wire is wired and dug into the ground. But I thank the Council of State for the answer so far, and then I allow myself to come back to the matter if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2147	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Recently, there has been a large increase in the number of applications to start private schools. A Christian organization plans to expand its school network extensively. These have been approved under the law on religious alternatives. The Private School Act is special in such a way that grants are automatically triggered if the school is approved. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the law so that there is room for discretion before the right to grant is triggered?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2156	It is correct that an authorisation under the Private School Act automatically triggers a right to a grant for school activities. It is related to the fact that the Private School Act is a grant law. Private primary schools may also be approved under the Training Act § 2 12. A primary school that complies with the minimum conditions of the Training Act is entitled to approval, but the approval does not trigger an operating grant. When examining applications under the private school law, the Ministry must decide whether each school meets the minimum requirements laid down by law. If the school meets the minimum conditions, the Ministry must decide, after an overall assessment, whether the school should be eligible for a grant under Section 25 of the Private School Act. 3rd@item: inlistbox So the Private School Act opens up for the exercise of discretion. The Ministry may refuse to grant approval even if the school complies with the minimum conditions laid down by law. There is therefore no right of approval under the Private School Act, including state subsidies for school activities. However, the overall application of the law should be such that the purpose of the law to contribute to the establishment and operation of private schools is adequately promoted. It is no secret that I want a tighter practice of the private school law than my predecessors. I want to put more emphasis on public schooling. Furthermore, I would like to highlight whether schools will promote gender equality and the commitments Norway has made through the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I am pleased that the Private School Act allows such assessments to be weighted, and that in individual cases this may lead to rejection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2169	I thank you for your answer. If there was an answer to the question, it is a little unclear, but at least it was an answer. And the answer was that the government would practice the regulations a little bit tighter than before, and that he probably won't approve so many schools. That's how I understood it. It goes on the approval of schools themselves, but my question was the grant scheme itself. And this is a grant law, I'm fully aware of that, but also within a grant law, a possible open discretion. I think it's more difficult to move into what's going on, when you're going to assess whether a school should be approved or not accepted as a religious or pedagogical alternative – the two options we have. I think it would make more sense to go in and use judgement in connection with the grant. There are many other countries that do. In many countries, schools are approved, but they do not receive an automatic grant. I think it would be desirable to go in the direction of using judgement on the grant system itself. I will therefore again challenge the Council of State whether it is the kind of judgement he wants to use, or whether he will allow greater discretion in whether the school is to be approved as a private school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2174	The representative of Rikham is quite right in that it is possible to exercise discretion in relation to the grant, or rather, it is when a school is to be approved under the private school law that one can exercise discretion. There are clear criteria for approval under the Training Act, and then the school must be approved if it meets those criteria but it does not trigger support. So that's exactly the home in the private school law that gives you the right to support, there's room for discretion, so that's where I feel that we're completely in line. I believe that within today's law there can be a more restrictive judgement than what has been done in the past, and I will do so. When it comes to concrete changes to the law, I think the ministry has to go in and see if the Children's Convention should somehow be incorporated into Norwegian law, and whether it matters to the private school law and our law. In addition to that, the department has Today, no concrete plans for changes to the Private School Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2187	I don't know if it's time to remind the State Council of the Workers' Party and the SV's view of the grant rates. The Labour Party supported an SV proposal to operate at several rates, graduated rates, so it should in itself allow the Council of State to promote a proposal to amend the law. There will be an additional question about it in the light of the proposal that the Workers' Party and SV have agreed on, is the time to try to make such a change, in order to bring that proposal with them. So to the Children's Convention. It must be clear that SV will also defend the agreements that we have internationally. But I feel like the Council of State is mixing some cards. Having the right to set up private schools is one thing, and we're not going to deal with that, but giving state subsidies is something else, and we're not obliged to do that in relation to international agreements. But I still choose to perceive the Council of States so that the signals coming from this pulpit today are that it is going to be more difficult for private to get established private schools. And I think that's a good signal to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2194	I see it as being quite in line with the discussion we are conducting right now. Again, it is quite right that it should be possible to establish private schools, but there should be a judgement as to whether these schools receive support when they are approved under the Private School Act. When I entered the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, it was in relation to making some changes to the law, because the government wants to see whether the conventions we have concluded internationally have to be incorporated into Norwegian law. I want to practice the discretion more stringently to the extent that the law makes room for it. I'm worried about a development where we get a sorting of the students in different schools based on religion, or maybe eventually based on the ability to pay or different things. I think the public common school is one of the key factors in our welfare society and for the solidarity, the equivalency and the cohesion that this nation has.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2204	I have a question for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «According to a chronicle in Dagbladet on 6 April 2000, at Fjell, one of the schools has chosen to divide the students into 1st grade, so that one of the classes becomes a purely non-Norwegian class. The background was the desire of some parents who were concerned about their children's linguistic and social development. Class organisation shall not normally take place according to ethnicity, cf. § 8-2 of the Training Act. Does the Council of State consider such a permanent division of classes to be in accordance with the law, and will the Council of State take the initiative to prevent such segregation in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2213	According to § 8-2 of the Training Act, the organisation of teaching is normally not to be done by professional level, gender or ethnicity. This means that, where there are particular considerations, the organisation of education may also take place in accordance with such principles. On a case-by-case basis, a concrete assessment must be made as to whether the organisation is within the framework of the Training Act §8-2. The highest possible level of training for students shall always be at the centre. It is primarily the municipality that assesses whether the requirements of the law are met in each school. If the parents are not satisfied with the decision of the municipality in a case, they may bring the matter before the State Educational Office, which shall ensure that the municipality complies with the law. The Education Office may also deal with matters on its own initiative. Since I have gained experience, no parent has complained to the education office about the classification at Mountain School. I can also inform you that the State Education Office in Buskerud has so far found no reason to carry out a further verification of the legality. I put great emphasis on the school being a meeting place for everyone. It occurs both through the composition of the individual class and through work across classes and class steps. It is reported that the classification at Mountain School is based on the housing pattern in the area. Mountain school has a long experience in teaching non-Norwegian pupils, and the school has worked a lot to integrate students with different cultural and linguistic backgrounds. I assume that the school, the municipality and the State Education Office have assessed the discretionary openings for the organisation of the education provided by the law, and found that the organisation is within the scope of the law. However, I would like to ask the Education Office to continue to follow developments in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2230	I thank you for your answer. This was almost a discharge from liability in relation to what is the responsibility of the Council of State, as I perceive it. We're going to be very careful to intervene with the municipalities and the individual schools. They must have a great degree of freedom. Let me stress that I have a great sense of that. But here we have a law that is reasonably clear – and I would like to say quite clearly – that we should not have a permanent division according to ethnic boundaries. Then it becomes a little too easy for me when the Council of State indicates that the training office in Buskerud has not responded and received no enquiry. It is the responsibility of the Council of State, when pointed out, to assess its legality in relation to the law it administers. I expected that to some extent he had come into it. I had expected him to come into his mind on this, that he would not just refer to the training office in Buskerud.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2235	The Training Act § 8-2 is quite clear. It says that the organisation normally should not be based on ethnicity. I fully support that wording. I think that is the right principle, and that is a principle to be followed. Now the wording is such that it is actually possible in specific cases to make such a breakdown if one finds that such an assessment is correct, but that is according to the information we have, not the case in this case. What we've gained in experience is that the division has actually been by geographical areas, and that there is no ethnic division that has taken place at Mountain School. I see no reason to doubt the information when the education office has not seen any reason to comment on it, nor has there been a single complaint from a single parent. That is the background, and there is no disclaimer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2242	There's a division after ethnic grouping. It's about three classes. In two of the classes there are a little over ten students in each class with Norwegian background. I have a very hard time understanding the argument that it's geography that's crucial. They could divide this so that there were not ten students with a Norwegian background in each class, but for example seven-eight. Then one had a distribution with different ethnic groupings in all three classes, not just in two of them. So the argument that this has happened because of geography, I find it hard to accept. And that also means that if a school can use the geography argument, one, if the students live more or less in certain ghettos, can be allowed to form classes based on possible ghettos. It would be a terrible development if we got there that one could argue like that, put the classes together based on geography and thus break the law – if one does.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2247	One of the things SV and the Workers' Party have largely agreed on is that students should have the opportunity to go to school in their neighbourhood. We have agreed on this because we believe it is important that children are allowed to go with the children they associate with in the neighborhood. According to the information we have received, this is the basis for the organisation of the classes at Mountain School, that children should have the same class because they live in the same neighborhood. I have no reason to doubt that information. If the representative Rikvam has completely different information, I would be very happy to have them violated. But that's the foundation of the organization at Mountain School. And since neither the parent nor the education office has seen any reason to complain about this, I see no reason to intervene. That's the answer. There is no discharge, but we do not consider this to be a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2255	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «During the budgetary procedure in the autumn of 1999, 100 million were granted. extra crowns to universities, inter alia, for conversion measures. Why are these funds not yet allocated, and when will universities be able to dispose of the funds from this maximum additional amount required by the Stortinge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2264	There have been several meetings between the Ministry and universities in autumn 1999 and winter 2000 on the disposal of funds for conversion, recruitment and research. For the allocation of funds for conversion measures, the Department of Dialogue with the universities has inter alia: emphasised on the following objectives: adjustment of the study profile major division of labour and professional coordination strengthening of professional management at institute level conversion of learning through the introduction of ICT as a teaching form The Ministry has suggested that different universities need different types of conversion. It is therefore important to have a close dialogue with universities on the issues of developing a high level of committed operationalisation of measures and objectives in relation to the use of funds for conversion. The Ministry will subsequently prepare a disposal of funds for conversion, recruitment and research in the near future. The Ministry has received views from universities and, on the basis of this, will make available to universities the first available funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2288	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The description of the procedure by the Ministry in relation to the institutions concerned is quite correct. That there is a dialogue and that one seeks to reach agreed solutions, that is good and good. Now, however, the first quarter has passed, and we're a piece within the second quarter of the year. It is a general experience that, if institutions are to be able to use the funds allocated to them in an appropriate manner during the financial year, they are dependent on being clearly informed of the available funds, at least in good time by the end of the first six months. I noticed that the Council of State used the wording in the near future, and I could imagine challenging him to make it even more concrete: when can universities expect to have a final letter of assignment from her department?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2295	I fully agree with the representative of Wage that universities must have this in good time before the first six months have expired. These include: on recruitment positions to be placed at the beginning of the semester until the autumn and we shall ensure that it is in place. I'm going to assume that the universities can have a letter of assignment in their hands at least not much later than mid-May – that's a maximum limit. But I have to say one more thing: I don't think I can take responsibility for this. Until 17 March, others were responsible for distributing these funds. It came on my table. I hope that the representative Wohnning understands that in a transitional phase with a government change, it can take some time. This shall be dealt with in a timely manner. These are funds resulting from the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties last autumn. We were the ones who got the center parties to be involved in these conversion methods. Therefore, it is also a pleasure as Minister of Education to distribute these funds further to universities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2300	Just a slight correction for the Minutes. It was as far as I am concerned that there was a unanimous growth in these means of conversion. From the right, we had an alternative budget proposal where we wanted to satisfy the universities even more. But it's just for the history books. What is interesting is that the Stortinget has taken a budget decision and has wanted these conversion measures to start as quickly as possible. I record that the council suggested that mid-May would be the absolute last deadline he was willing to give himself. Under the circumstances you will well be able to accept it, then it will have been two months since the Council of State took over. But I would also like to point out that most of the basic work with respect to reporting was done before the Council of State took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2307	I am impressed by the representative of Wohnning's knowledge of the internal preparatory work in the department for the distribution of university funds. When I said mid-May, it was just to be sure that I would not get a round with the representative's salary later that the deadline was exceeded. I think we're going to get those funds out long before that deadline. I think this is pretty clear over a couple of weeks. We get the Easter now, which is pretty close to the inside. If we do it before Easter, we'll see, but just above Easter, my ambition is. I'm sure it's right, as the representative on the payroll said, that there was a total accumulation that joined it. But the fact is that it was not in the budget that was proposed by the then government, and that it was in agreement with the Workers' Party that the funds came in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2314	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-12.ana.ud1123e2323	There is no record.
