ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e45	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e54	There is a broad majority in the current position of the Odelstinget that is behind the framework for a common public procurement code, which also includes municipalities and county councils. In January 1999, the Stortinget adopted a new purchasing law allowing the granting of common rules for all state purchases and for municipal purchases above a certain value. During the examination at that time, it was signalled that the objective should be a common regulatory framework for the entire public sector, including for purchases below the thresholds. However, the majority respected the need for a democratic process in which the municipalities and the state entered into a dialogue on the matter and where the consequences for the municipalities were better clarified. This work was quickly initiated by the government of Bondevik in line with Stortinget's assumptions, and has now been completed by the government of Stoltenberg. Why is such a common legislation so important? Well, first of all, because a complex and unbridled regulatory framework always affects them hardest with small resources. A large group will usually have both resources and competence to deal with changing and complex rules. It does not have all the small businesses in the country, which in such cases will easily be squandered by the competition for missions they would otherwise have been involved in and fought over. By putting this common regulatory framework in place, we are equalising a good part of the disadvantages of small businesses today. And that's a very heavy argument for doing this. At the same time, I am convinced that a common regulatory framework will be of benefit to the small contracting entities, including the local authorities. I think there is reason to stress that the impact assessment carried out for the municipal sector underpins this, and that this analysis has given us a better basis for decision-making than we had in January 1999 in order to fully integrate the municipal sector into the legislation. The impact assessment shows that all municipalities that have submitted procurements on the basis of the procurement principle have achieved a financial gain. It also applies to the smallest municipalities. In this context, it is particularly important that a common regulatory framework makes it much easier to engage in purchasing cooperation between several municipalities, and that such inter-municipal cooperation can greatly reduce the need to build up their own purchasing skills and capacities in each municipality. Thus, the proposal currently put forward by the majority would help to free up resources that could be used to improve the provision of services to the population. The Government has also proposed the creation of a separate public procurement dispute resolution body and an overall committee has joined it. For the Left, it is particularly gratifying that during the Committee's proceedings the Council of State has agreed to make the Public Service Act applicable to this new body. There must be very good reasons to exempt public processes from the disclosure law, and such reasons do not appear to be present in this case. With regard to the issue of the apprenticeship clause and the anti-contractor clause, these have also been further assessed by the Government and the majority of the Committee subscribes to these assessments. I am particularly pleased that the Government so clearly advises against an anti-contractor clause. There is every reason to stress that the vast majority of individual enterprises are serious and comply with Norwegian law, and that these are enterprises that society needs and should encourage. Finally, I would like to emphasise in particular what the majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Central Party, points out in the opening remarks. The current legislation is so important and so socially positive that it must enter into force as soon as possible. I expect the Council of State has noticed it, and today she can give a signal as to how quickly she intends to introduce the new legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e77	Initially, I would like to remind you that this case is a follow-up to Storting's treatment of Ot.prp. No 71 for 1997-98, which resulted in a new law on government acquisitions. The treatment showed that there was a majority in favour of the Government assessing the consequences of a common regulatory framework for both government and municipal acquisitions, regardless of the value of the acquisitions. As a basis for the proposition we are discussing today, there has been close cooperation with the municipal sector, and a thorough impact assessment has been carried out. As the rapporteur also pointed out, the impact assessment showed that there is a real and comprehensive economic potential in a common regulatory framework in this area. The central association of municipalities does not primarily want to introduce a common regulatory framework, but it is worth noting their opinion, that if it does, the requirements for, for example, do not need to be met. organisation and advertising, etc. result in significant additional costs. As far as this relationship is concerned, I will refer to the work being done to strengthen local democracy. On that basis, I find that there is no danger that central guidelines will impose on municipalities specific ways of organising purchases. The organisation itself must become a matter for each municipality or the co-operative municipalities, if any. In my view, cooperation between several smaller municipalities is well served in this area. A common regulatory framework will significantly facilitate such cooperation. With regard to costs, I point out that the impact assessment shows that all the municipalities that have changed their purchasing practices from direct purchases to more use of tenders/offers have had savings. The municipalities themselves report gross savings in the order of 1.5 pst. for close to 30 pst. According to the Ministry, this shows that the potential for savings is significant in the municipal sector. It is shown, for example: for a saving of 15 pst. for the purchases concerned, a cost cut of approximately DKK 1.9 billion could be represented. On this basis, the Ministry concludes, inter alia, that the gains to be made by municipalities will clearly exceed the increased costs and resource needs resulting from a change in practice and the introduction of new legislation. As indicated in the opinion, an overall committee on one point promotes proposals for amendment to the Government's legislative proposals. The fourth paragraph of Section 7a concerns disclosure during the proceedings in the dispute settlement body. A unanimous committee considers that it is sufficient to establish that the administrative disclosure law applies to the activities of that body. Further restrictions on public access are considered unnecessary. I would like to mention in particular that this change takes place in consultation with the Ministry, and I refer to the letter of 17 November 2000, which is included in the vote. Furthermore, I refer to the rapporteur's observations on other matters and the Committee's views on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e92	Public acquisitions law entered into force on 1 January 1994 as part of the implementation of the EEA Agreement in Norway. This was important, for example: to make better use of resources. When the public sector chooses a more expensive supplier than necessary, it means higher costs for taxpayers. The proposition that Odelstinget is dealing with today is designed to coordinate the unbridled and complex legislation to which suppliers of goods, services, construction and installations must relate. We therefore believe it is very gratifying that there is now a common regulatory framework for state and municipal acquisitions, regardless of the value of the acquisition. Such a code of law for the design of a common rule for state, county and municipal acquisitions should have actually come several years ago, but it has not been a majority for that in the past. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 71 for 1997-98 in December 1999 there was a majority, all except the Progress Party and the Right, who first wanted to assess the impact of including the municipal sector as a whole in the legislation. When there is now a common regulatory framework for contracting entities, this will lead to simplification, such as: will increase the availability of both contracting entities and suppliers. A uniform regulatory framework will facilitate legal certainty in the market while providing homogeneity in public acquisitions. This will result in job savings, perhaps especially for those parts of the economy that are currently operating against both the State and the municipal sectors, and which find it confusing with a legal state with two different regulations. So even though it's taken a little longer than it's strictly necessary to get to where we stand today, the Progress Party believes the most important thing is that we get a system that's as efficient as possible, by choosing the supplier that has the best offer, based on a number of predefined criteria. It is important that the rules on public procurement ensure a level playing field and that breaches of the rules have consequences. Although there are many examples of professional sponsors within countries, municipalities and county councils who loyally follow the legislation and want to use it as an important tool, there are some examples of the opposite. Complaints and criticisms of failure by the contracting authorities to comply have been reported in most sectors. There are likely to be dark points for deviations which are neither detected in the media nor by competing suppliers. This makes it even more important to correct the more or less systematic infringements in relation to the legislation taking place. Therefore, it is positive that the Government is now taking steps to establish a dispute resolution body for public acquisitions. The decisions of the body will not be binding and it shall be optional to make use of that right of appeal. The Progress Party considers that the creation of a new dispute resolution body could be an appropriate instrument to streamline enforcement of procurement law. Many industries welcome such an instrument. As the complaint and monitoring system has been up to now, the threshold is very high for small and medium-sized enterprises to bring cases to light, even though the cases should have been fully clarified. This is due to many factors. Small and medium-sized enterprises have in many respects difficulties in suing a potential purchaser, as there is a concern that future competition will not take account of them. In other cases, companies may have to be sure to win a case before taking a step and going to court, because of the danger of having to pay a lawyer at the counterparty's legal costs in the event of any loss. Thus, both economic and resource considerations mean that suppliers refrain from going to court. Therefore, it may be very useful to set up an advisory dispute resolution body, and the Progress Party has high expectations for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e111	Basically, there's a big deal we have to deal with today. The public sector is, of course, the largest of all the buyers we have in this country, and it should only be lacking that we do not have a legislation that will provide the country's citizens and those who receive services from the public sector, the best prices that can be achieved in the market, so that we are better able to solve the core public sector tasks that are set to manage. I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for the thorough work he has done on this matter. Right joins the setting with a small exception - that is important enough. Where the majority would provide an opening in the law for contracting entities to require Norwegian suppliers to have apprentices associated with the enterprise, the Right is not included in that note. We believe that it is relatively unacceptable to impose on Norwegian suppliers a requirement that cannot be imposed on competitors in other EEA countries. Here we are actually talking about purchases that are above the so-called thresholds, which are bound up in the EEA and WTO Statutes. Another aspect that I would like to comment on just briefly is that I do not fully understand why the Municipalities' Central Association fights against integrating the municipal sector into the law – this after it has even been shown that it is the municipal sector that accounts for half of the total purchases. We're talking about a total of about $85 billion. When you have also heard from comments on the matter that there is a saving potential between 5 and 20 p.p., we see that here the local government sector can also save significant amounts. And then I think one should have had a more offensive attitude on the part of the KS management than to present the local government sector that was not so well developed, that one continues to walk around and trade in tip bags. If that time isn't over, then it's certainly time for the KS team to make sure it gets past.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e120	This case concerns purchases below the so-called thresholds under the EEA Agreement, and the Central Party considers that there is no basis for saying what is stated in the proposal that society's funds are not used effectively in the municipalities which have their own procurement rules and which differ in one or more respects from what is intended in a department. I thought there was a broad consensus about volunteering and finding the best local solutions, and that one could at least have a deviation from what is thought out centrally. I am amazed that the Central Party was standing alone in the skeptical attitude that a common regulatory framework for all large and small purchases in large and small municipalities should be the same as that for the state and all the largest organisations – and that it should represent the only possibility. The centre party believes, as KS, that the introduction of common procedural rules, including for the very small purchases, is a disadvantage for the large number of municipalities. What KS says, and which is included in the proposition, is the following: ‘With regard to the impact assessment showing disadvantages for the large number of municipalities in the introduction of procedural rules for purchases below the so-called thresholds, KS maintains its primary position that such rules should not be introduced.’ I think KS has thought well about this. They have seen that regulations are introduced voluntarily in the municipalities because they see the benefits, and they use their own or KS" rules as they do. The centre party believes it is important to take into account that many municipalities are small, and that they do best with small administration and little rigid rules. I would like to recall the general debate on the detailed management of the municipal sector. The proposition says that the law limits the freedom of the municipalities. In yesterday's budget debate on the municipal sector, I heard talk after talk saying that now it was about making the municipalities get their freedom back, that we ended with this detailed management. To overlook such an easily understandable message from the KS and from the municipalities I find very unwise and illogical. I have understood it as the Senterpartiet achieves its purpose by voting against the amendment to the first paragraph of Section 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e140	First, I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed to the representatives. The last time the matter was up, SV made a proposal to get environmental considerations in. After contacting the department, I understand that you are working with a guide called ‘green acquisitions’, but that it is not quite ready yet. So it's a little hard to say whether we're satisfied with it or not, but I'm assuming that the considerations we put in are taken care of. With regard to the other proposals, I will go through them quickly, as our opinion cannot be read out of the setting. With regard to the inclusion of municipalities in the procurement legislation below the thresholds, this will ensure minimum standards for all, but it will prevent some municipalities from taking on more and better societal considerations, such as: consideration of local suppliers. There is something about having some freedom that could also, and especially as a small customer, there may be a need to want to choose something better. But it can also improve what might be called worst-case municipalities, which would not care about tax certificates or health and environmental requirements. Nevertheless, SV chooses to agree with the Center Party in this case, because we believe that in most cases most municipalities will use the standard regulations as a basis, but in some cases they may want to take some consideration in addition to that. There is also a good opportunity to pursue local policies here, both in order to promote equal competition for those who want to do so, and for those who want to demand better environmental considerations or better consideration for local suppliers, for example. In the case of the apprenticeship clause, the opening to require an apprenticeship scheme for Norwegian suppliers, we are satisfied with that, because the reason for having such a provision is the consideration of the Norwegian apprenticeship system and not of others. When it comes to going away from the contractual clause, I have to say that we are a little in doubt. After an exchange of letters with the department on the matter, I do not feel quite sure that this is a system that will prevent illegality. From the answers I have received from the Council of State, it becomes a little bit so that if any of these companies don't have completely pure flour in the bag, then the reputational stock exchange should go, and then someone should sort of catch this up, and eventually – if you have been proven – you should be able to contact the different authorities in the different areas here. However, it is quite clear that it is neither appropriate nor appropriate that the purchaser himself carry out checks or random tests to check possible breaches of Norwegian legislation. I assume that this does not mean that a buyer, i.e. a municipality, cannot call the tax director or the Labour Inspectorate to check if there are any comments on an enterprise. In addition, I assume that when there is a representative of the employees who are to sign this health, environmental and safety declaration, there shall be an employee who has been selected or appointed as representative of the employees, i.e. representative, so that no one can do so. So to the proposal that we are promoting today, which is that we ask the Government to investigate and promote opportunities to ‘achieve the ethical and human rights objectives of the Ethical Trade Initiative’. It is an initiative now taken by the LO, by the Church's Emergency Aid and by the co-operation – Coop – and the commercial and service industries have also joined this initiative. Many of the legislation we now have does not ensure that foreign suppliers take good care, including: in the case of forced labour, the right to organise, child labour, measures to combat discrimination, measures to combat brutal treatment and to have safe and hygienic working conditions, etc. This initiative has set out twelve different points for which they are now working. We have thought that such a rule must assume that it is those who take a good into the country, who must be responsible for this being in order, whether it is now the purchaser of seagoing goods, a wholesaler or an intermediary. But we want to ask for such an opportunity, because we feel that it is very important that the public sector, which – as has been rightly said here – is the largest buyer of all, pursues ethical and human rights objectives when they spend all their billions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e159	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e162	Like the representative of Kristiansen, I would also like to pay tribute to the case rapporteur, the representative of Kongshaug, for the work that has been done with this partly also heavy and complicated, but important work, also in relation to the relationship with the Public Service Act. It is clear that a common procurement code can now – if correctly used – release significant resources, both for public and business. The municipalities will now have a modern regulatory framework that will support the achievement of the best possible acquisitions, and the legislation will also facilitate greater public empowerment as a professional and demanding customer, which will also increase competitiveness. The government also sees it as important – in response to the representative Karin Andersen – that the new legal provisions on resource and environmentally conscious acquisitions are now also having an effect. For business, a common regulatory framework throughout the country also means a clear simplification. A well-established and coherent regulatory framework, which is based on good procurement, will therefore provide benefits both for suppliers and for the public. The chairperson of the Committee, from the Centre Party, agrees that the individual municipality itself will continue to decide whether it will change its purchasing practices. Here I would like to remind you that in the case of larger acquisitions, there is already legislation that applies to municipalities. For acquisitions below the thresholds, surveys show that one in five municipalities does not have any procurement procedures. Since the development of good procurement legislation requires a lot of work, it is not surprising that it is the small municipalities with very limited resources that have not implemented them. Therefore, a comprehensive public code will in particular confer an advantage on those municipalities which have not established their own procurement rules. At the same time, it will solve today's problems that individual municipalities do not have clear rules on how suppliers can be treated in a non-discriminatory way. I can otherwise promise that the Government in the preparation of new regulations in these areas will not make such detailed provisions that it will be difficult for the smaller municipalities. I would also like to stress that a new, common procurement legislation does not restrict municipal autonomy. The purchasing law only lays down rules on how the purchasing process is to be conducted, not on what is to be acquired. It is still up to each municipality to decide, within the framework of the general legislation, which services to provide. The establishment of a separate public procurement dispute resolution body will also contribute to the smooth functioning of the public procurement market. Although the main objective of the new legislation is to ensure efficient procurement, I am pleased that we can also discharge the specific responsibilities of the public with regard to other societal considerations, without losing sight of the main purpose. I believe that we have succeeded in finding a good balance through the introduction of a tax certificate and apprenticeship clause, as well as a self-declaration on health, the environment and safety and contractual activities. I therefore hope that public authorities can be an example of follow-up on the basis of this new legislation. I got a question from the case rapporteur about how quickly we could get started. I can then say that we are going to start the regulatory work immediately, with the necessary consultation round, with a view to a rapid entry into force. There were also two questions/comments from SV. One concerns the contractor activity. There's been a hard investigation here, which has been going on for many years. The country organisation has also been involved in this work. As the sample worked on both the state and municipal public acquisitions as such, we know that compromises were shattered. The question then is how far you should drive it, and then lose it. So here everyone has to be able to give and take, so that we can implement this with the arrangement that is here today. And as far as the ethical trade proposal is concerned, this is an initiative by the Church's Emergency Aid and the Landsorganisation which has just received support from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I would therefore like to go through this with the background of this proposal and see if there is anything that can be done, even if today there seems to be little of this that directly affects public procurement. But I think it's right to go through it to see what is possible to do in relation to ethical trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e188	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e192	In the light of what the Council of State now said, that she would go through the matter, I withdraw the proposal and, if necessary, come back to it when we get feedback from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e197	For information, the President had in any case intended to propose this proposal to the Stortinget. But since Karin Andersen says she's pulling it, it's drawn. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e213	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e221	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e227	During the debate, Mr Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, put forward proposal No. 1, which is distributed in the hall. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to investigate and propose a supplement to the Law of 16 June 1999 No. 69 on public acquisitions which pursue the ethical and human rights objectives of the Ethical Trade Initiative.» However, this proposal has been withdrawn at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e279	The President will draw attention to a correction. The law shall be dated 16 July, not 16 June as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e299	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they are moving towards the third sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e329	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e338	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e372	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06-lower.ana.ud2062e381	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
