ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e36	I suggest Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e41	Marit Nybakk is proposed as president. Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e49	The representative, Olav Gunnar Ballo, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e52	I would like to promote a legislative proposal on behalf of Helge Bjørnsen and myself on the amendment of paragraphs 8-14 of the People's Rights Act, so that disabled people are given travel aid for work trips when they cannot use public transport, when such an offer is not available, or when the disability itself makes self-transport impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e57	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e69	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e78	Carl I. Hagen and Øyvind Waksdal want one to take CO2 out of the pollution laws, as one also argues in debates on gas power and such things. The Committee has assessed the matter and found that one does not consider it necessary to examine this proposal and rejects it. Initially, I thought this was a situational proposal, based on the gas power debate that was March 9th. Now the previous thing shows that the jus here can be a point forward, and then you can wonder if there is a party that wants to end up with this proposal that the Progress Party is now – I guess – holding on to. For my own part, I just want to show that the center and the SV think it is unnecessary to make this change, with the following reason: The Centre Party and SV ‘produce that with the legal curvature and manoeuvres the Government has done in connection with St.meld’. No 33’ – i.e. the environmental message – ‘in relation to pollution law, the proposal in this document is superfluous’. On behalf of the majority, I suggest that one reject the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e91	In Section 6, first paragraph, no. 1 a general reference to the fact that gaseous emissions to air are considered to be covered by the concept of pollution. The question of carbon dioxide, CO2, would also be covered by the Pollution Act, was, in effect, decided by the government of Jagland, which also referred emissions requests to CO2 for treatment in the State pollution control under the pollution legislation. This was done despite the fact that CO2 emissions are not harmful to either humans, animals, plants or any kind of life. CO2, or carbon dioxide, is included as a natural part of the sea and atmosphere in a circuit consisting of photosynthesis of plants, biological activities such as human and animal pusting and various physical and chemical processes. The human contribution to CO2 emissions has been estimated to be approx. 7 billion tonnes per year, against a total emissions of more than 200 billion tonnes per year. This shows that a disappearing little part of the emissions is man-made. After many years of intensive research, no clear evidence has yet been found that human activity affects the climate, but there is considerable disagreement on these issues in the research community. Although it is claimed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that there may be some climate change that may be aggravated by anthropogenic emissions of CO2, there is little evidence that this will lead to some global environmental disaster. James Hansen of NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies has long been a central driver of the thesis on man-made global warming. In fact, he was the one who initiated the climate concern during a congress hearing already in 1988 by saying that it was more than 90 p.m. that people were about to warm up the globe. However, in a recently published article, he meets both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and himself by claiming that there is no fossil fuel and CO2 that drives the possible global warming, but other so-called greenhouse gases. This must be said to be alarming. In the wake of the Climate Panel's recommendations, some Norwegian research institutions have made clear statements, the defecation of sceptics and actually announced climate for future generations. That we don't know enough about the climate system and its dynamics to separate any human contribution from the natural, the article from James Hansen is a good example of. In view of this, the Progress Party is very much in doubt about the need to reduce man-made CO2 emissions and, in particular, about the follow-up to the Kyoto Agreement with significant economic consequences. We consider that there is a low risk of postponing the strongest measures to reduce CO2 emissions to have better knowledge in this area, and it is also necessary to investigate and assess a possible strategy with adaptation measures for any change in climate conditions. It is possible that it is both better and more economically sound to adapt the world to any change in climate conditions than to seek to limit emissions with the economic consequences that this will have. I find it strange that in political Norway there are just problems, but no opportunities. The Energy and Environment Committee visited the ROCA gas power plant in the Netherlands in winter. Here they didn't see CO2 as a problem, but rather as an opportunity. Here they had built up the infrastructure to distribute CO2 to the surrounding greenhouses and sold the gas to them. The result was that production in these greenhouses increased by 20 pst. Fortunately, we now see that there are also people here to see the possibilities, and of course I aim at Statoil's plans for a CO2 plant at Kårstø. I would like to put forward with this the proposal of the Progress Party that is included in the suspension, to take CO2 out of the pollution law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e134	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e137	For examination there is a Document No. 8 proposals to remove the greenhouse gas CO2 from the pollution law. To this end, the rapporteurs presented Carl I. Hagen and Øyvind Waksdal understand the greenhouse gas CO2 that differs from most international climate research. The problem with the reality description of the proposers, where historical lines are drawn from the Middle Ages to today, is a fading attempt to scientifically argue against today’s climate models. The Progress Party is faced with a global Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change over a few sections of incomplete claims that allegedly call into question the entire scientific research on greenhouse gasses, thus rejecting the research underpinning the current pollution law. On the other hand, the Progress Party shows an uncritical enthusiasm for research that supports their own views, including: carried out by researchers who appear not to be researchers but who can in fact also be dentists. Despite this, the Progress Party notes that ‘there is some consensus that there may be some climate change that may be enhanced by anthropogenic emissions of CO2’. World's leading climate scientists believe that we need to reduce CO2 emissions in order to stabilise the CO2 content in the atmosphere. And the serious reason for this is that man-made CO2 emissions can have a huge impact on the natural environment in which humans live and depend. The warming of the atmosphere can threaten the world's food supply, cause droughts, storms and damaged crops and threaten biodiversity. These scenarios are rejected as doomsday prophecies by the proposers, which provide the following alternative to a climate-friendly policy: ‘It is fully possible that it is both better and more economically sound to adapt the world to changing climate conditions than to seek to limit emissions with the economic consequences it entails.’ The quotation is clear. Rather than taking policy action today, the Progress Party wants the world to adapt to any change in climate conditions. In other words, they're not so sure that we might experience climate change anyway. The real reason Hagen and Waksdal have for this bill is that one is not willing to take the economic consequences of a CO2 emission reduction. The proposers seem to believe that the population will quickly turn to an increased average temperature. Warmer summers and milder winters are better than the economic consequences of limited emissions. Animals and plants and the vulnerable ecosystem in which they live are adapted to special temperature ranges. A change in the climate will happen so quickly that the species are unable to follow, and the diversity of species is thus threatened. Does the Progress Party require the same natural adaptability to avoid the economic consequences of limited CO2 emissions? Proposal manufacturers have many reservations about CO2 emissions. Can they clarify whether we can be sure that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is wrong and that the greenhouse effect will not create climate change? Or is there a risk that we will experience climate change, but that this is better than taking the economic consequences of limiting today's emissions? Nevertheless, when summarizing the environmental credibility of the Progress Party, it does not come out worse than the Labour Party. The attitude of the party to the environmental policy is, after all, a fundamental follow-up to the fact that they do not believe in the adverse effects of increased CO2 emissions. On the other hand, it is more difficult to understand the policy that is now being pursued in the Labour Party. Last week, the Government of Nature gave the permission which we have discussed on repeated occasions this week, and which in a way places the Workers' Party in a special environmental position. It is therefore interesting to note that the Workers' Party proposes to reject this bill on the grounds that there will be a deterioration in the pollution law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e170	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 9]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e184	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. The President would also suggest that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Since the case's rapporteur is a member of the Lagtinget, the first speaker is Jorunn Ringstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e193	There is a big law audit Odelstinget will take a decision today, and it is an expression that it has long been necessary to establish a time law. For example, the use of watercourses has changed over time. Thus, the watercourse is more focused on its intrinsic value than before, both as part of the landscape and as a conservation site for plants and animals. Modern principle for resource management, e.g. the importance of biodiversity and sustainable development requires a greater impact on societal development. Other user interests have come into existence, including: the conversion of energy policy in the 1990s has led actors in the power market to have clear commercial objectives in addition to traditional supply tasks. The demand for local resource use has been strongly anchored in public enterprise policy. The need to regulate off-takes of groundwater has been reported with increased strength. These examples have updated a review of the current evidence of general interest and also the need for clear definitions of the scope and definitions of the legislation. The new Water Resource Act was introduced by the Bondevik Government, and the Energy and Environment Committee has joined all legislative proposals. But it is important to note that at some points the Committee has formulated premises and comments that will have to weigh heavily when the laws are to be practiced, and I will mention some of them in my article. In addition to the elements I have calculated before, the law audit reflects a desire to simplify the law, of course a price-effective motive, but which in turn leads to the administration being given extensive powers. For example, the laws of concession laws are based largely on understanding. This may result in arbitrary decisions, which the department itself may warn against to some extent. That's why the committee thinks there's every reason to follow developments closely. A leading point in the statutory audit is the objective of adapting laws and regulations to requirements and preconditions resulting from the establishment of an efficient power market. The concept of ‘efficient resource use’ is now given public interest status and is therefore given greater weight than before. The question is what perspective should be used when talking about the most efficient use of power resources. The Ministry claims, for example, that: in the proposal that the concession obligation may be released if the implementation of a mini- or micro-power plant may conflict with a more optimal use of the hydropower. But a group committee didn't think it was an up-to-date matter at all. The Committee claims that it would be socio-economic, efficient and in line with public interest to expand the community economy. Local resource control and energy production linked to micro and mini-power plants can in most cases be perceived as a leak in the development of land strategies. Thus, the power industry has not claimed the interpretation of the concept of ‘efficient resource use’, especially when local plans for the construction of micro and mini-power plants are under way. It is an independent point that such local power stations usually do not conflict with other public interests, e.g.: nature and environment. No one can be blind to the fact that both public and private actors see themselves tending to change the current ownership structures, and that they benefit from the best possible use of resources as arguments. Power generation has been ‘big business’ and internationalised. It is more important that a solid majority in the Committee emphasises that ‘in the general sense, it is important to ensure that local communities have the right to own resources, and thus a stronger income base’. Of course, the use of the expropriation institute must not challenge such premises. Let me add that private property rights are just as strong after the law audit as before. And then an important point in the end: Because hydropower is a resource with rising market value, the transition to commercial exploitation will lead to replacement issues coming into a new light. The Committee will follow these developments closely. At a later stage, the centre party will consider concrete legislative proposals to ensure that, in the light of the new developments, a reasonable distribution of values is made between the owners of fallrights and builders. This will also be an important leak in a local policy strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e219	I'll be very short. There is a thorough presentation of the matter by Jorunn Ringstad, and there is not much disagreement or controversy that has arisen through the treatment, and there has been broad political agreement. But I have a few comments. We see it as essentially a sort of cleanup in the existing law. Anyway, there's a relationship I want to mention, and that's the question of groundwater. In relation to this, there has been little law and case law in the past, and it is now established that the landowner has the right to ownership of the water under his land. That doesn't mean he can dispose of the water freely. Here, too, there will be concession rules. We are then of the opinion that the concession treatment for groundwater extraction requires the concession authorities to pay great attention to the needs of society and to take the necessary environmental considerations into account. Water undervalued as a resource. We shouldn't go far until water is perhaps the most important resource. Water is the source of many problems, and the value of clean water is likely to increase significantly in the future. For this reason, a comprehensive policy for the management of water resources is important, where we place greater emphasis on nature and the environment. There are a lot of user interests in most watercourses. It is no longer just the power development it focuses on; now there are conditions for water supply, agriculture, fisheries, outdoor life, tourism, etc., and this must be included in the future assessment of watercourse management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e228	The Progress Party is in favour of the new law seeking to facilitate better coordination with other legislation, which will make the law both simpler and more transparent. The Ministry's proposal for the Water Resource Act asserts that regardless of size and location, all kinds of watercourses are covered by the law. The Party considers that it is unnecessary for all types of pelvis, regardless of their size, to be defined as watercourses. This, in our opinion, will create problems in the practice of law. We would rather recommend that the basin or river have a certain size or width to be defined as watercourses. In this context, I refer to the hearing opinions of the Norwegian Forest Association, the Trade Union of Brukseier and the counties of Rogaland, Hordaland, Østfold and Vestfold. The party of progress holds ownership high, and we are therefore, in principle, very skeptical about the use of expropriation. We believe that there must be very weighty societal considerations before expropriation can be used. We also disagree with the Ministry's proposal that older measures without concession can be called for concessional treatment, and we also, of course, disagree with the fact that the authorities have increased access to the property of others when implementing measures. With regard to the right of access to groundwater, we support the Ministry's view that the landowner should have access to groundwater under his property. As regards the minimum water flow provisions in Section 10, we would point out that it would be very unfortunate for the results of many years of cooperation between the regulators, the management and the biological environments to be thwarted by introducing a square provision. Here one has to be able to show greater flexibility to accommodate both power generation and other interests. The proposal also proposes the legalisation of watercourse protection, which involves both the statutory prohibition of power build-up resulting from the protection plans and the legal attachment of the protection in relation to other types of watercourse interference. The legislative proposal sets out both stricter concession provisions and stricter criteria for granting concession to measures in sheltered watercourses. The Progress Party will oppose the legalisation of watercourse protection, as proposed by the Ministry, and we will continue to oppose the introduction of stricter concession provisions and stricter criteria to grant concessions to measures in sheltered watercourses. On the basis of this, we will vote against sections 2, 10, 28, 32, 33, 34, 35 and 62.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e245	That was a good explanation of vote. The President shall return to the vote at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e248	The Water Resource Act that is under treatment today is a law revision that addresses new focusses on our water resources. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we now have a law that addresses important environmental policy considerations such as the self-value of the watercourses, the sustainability of resources, the fair distribution of resources and an increased focus on the watercourses as part of the natural landscape. The audit also has its background in a desire to simplify the legal basis. The law has a general form, and there is room for too much discretion in the rules of concession. In doing so, the Committee has received assurances from the Council of State that there will be no arbitrary decisions or unreasonable differences between the applicants. However, it is important to bear in mind that it may be necessary to lay down certain criteria, whether the treatment of concessions becomes too arbitrary. The Committee considers that legal criteria would then be more effective than a general mandate. General interest is an important concept in the award of concessions and the Ministry rightly claims that efficient use of resources is in the general interest. However, the Committee has also clarified that the concept of ‘efficient resource use’ has more meaning than power generation. The Christian People's Party believes that the water resource law that we have now been treated is an important step forward in ensuring watercourses against development, restoring responsibility for natural resources to local communities and reducing adverse impacts in the watercourse. Water resources are important in a number of fields and therefore need to be managed with respect for our resource base and with a view to optimum use. The law is based on the right of landowners to watercourses and groundwater. However, what limits ownership is the public interest and, in particular, the concession obligation. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that although a concession has been granted for the implementation of a measure, it must take its own decisions on expropriation. The Centre, together with the Workers' Party, has underlined that while both public and private actors need to change the existing property structure in order to optimise the use of resources, it is important to ensure that local communities have their own resources. The Christian People's Party appreciates the local democratic principle that those who have a ownership of the resources should also have them. This will also help to restore some of the returns to the community and provide a potential increase in income. Objections have been raised to the fact that the minimum flow of water is linked to a fixed size. However, this is an instrument that can prevent or reduce adverse effects in the watercourse. It is therefore important to decide on a case-by-case basis, in relation to the characteristics of the watercourse, what is the tolerance limit for each watercourse. Here it will be up to the Ministry to apply flexibility to all concessional watercourses. The directive regulating the minimum flow of water is an instrument for preventing or reducing adverse effects in the watercourse and it is therefore important to determine the critical level of water flow of any adverse effects. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that it is satisfied that the Department of Section 34 proposes that no one should be able to put in place measures that are contrary to the Stortingen's protection decision. The proposal implies that watercourse protection is legalised against power build-up and that legal protection will apply whether it is private or public that has an interest in development. The Christian People's Party wants to underline the importance of this law, which we believe can strengthen watercourse protection. It is also important to enhance respect for the intrinsic value of the watercourse and to ensure ‘a socially sound use and management’ of our natural resources. The law can also serve as a counterbalance to market forces, as many players in the power market today have commercial interests. The Water Resource Act can thus ensure natural resources against harmful interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e274	I mainly join the representative Ringstad's statement on the matter and will therefore affect only a few areas. The right fully adheres to the legislative committee and the Ministry’s objective of simplifying and modernising the existing law. But the result is an extension of the powers to the administration. We are very sceptical about this, and we will therefore follow developments closely. If the result is different treatment for the applicants and not a proper follow-up to the leadership of the Committee, we need to get back to the matter. In one area in particular, the Committee is considering an assessment which does not appear in the proposal. It is the assessment of the content of the concept of ‘efficient resource use’. In the proposition, a few impressions may be that there will be an intensification of the possibility of having a mini- or micro-power plant built. There are especially two conditions that make such incisions wrong. Mini or micro-power plants could be an important contributor to compensating for the loss of income in agriculture and forestry. The right has a positive attitude to projects that ensure resource control and industrial development in local communities. This perspective must be taken into account under the concept of ‘effective resource control’. The second ratio is that there is a significant power potential in mini and micro power plants. This production may take place without significant interference with the watercourses. In a situation where several major watercourses are either extended or protected, this is important because the option is larger than the so-called roofing principle. These expansions will often lead to interventions in nature across large areas. It may be a more efficient use of resources in isolation, but not in a broader societal perspective, because the establishment of mini- or micro-power plants can provide the local community with the income base both from power generation and from the use of nature, for example. through tourism. With the Committee's clarification, it is not possible for management to say no to any expansion of mini- or micro-power plants on the grounds that more extensive expansion would result in more efficient use of resources, as some have claimed in the media. The protection of watercourses by size does not preclude all forms of power generation. This will depend on the general guidelines given by the Storting in the protection plans and on the concrete observations of each watercourse project. Protection of a watercourse does not prevent concessional power expansions in the watercourse. In the evaluation of each project, it is important to pay particular attention to the fact that mini- or micro-power plants often have little or no impact on the watercourse or environment. Our water resources are not unlimited, although the weather in the last few days may give the opposite impression. Especially in District Norway, the population notices that water resources are sought after in many ways. It is therefore a growing frustration on the part of the landowners that the big community is too little in caring for their interests. The right would stress the importance of strengthening the ownership of the landowner’s own resources and the fact that, in the event of expropriation, the compensation reflects the real market price.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e293	There's a lot in what the case spokesperson here said, and I can join most of it. But there's two points that SV focuses on. The first is that we take up the Watercourse Law Selection minority position when it comes to replacing the ‘socially sound use and management’ concept with ‘environmentally sound use and management’ in Section 1. We do this primarily to emphasize that for the sake of sustainable development and to take care of the biological deficiency and the natural processes that are in the watercourse, we want to focus more on the environment in the purpose paragraph. The second point on which SV distinguishes is the ratio to the minimum water flow. The main reason for this is that if a person only has a minimum water catch limit, there are some rivers that – and I'm going to admit that this has something to do with salmon fishing – depend on flooding in order for it to be a proper rise in salmon. We also want to amend Section 10, first paragraph. I'm taking this up with the two names.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e304	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e308	The importance of having ample access to water is at the heart of the introduction of a new century. We know that water shortage is a major problem globally. In Norway we are blessed with abundant quantities. This gives us a responsibility to manage this resource in a socially sound way, both in terms of watercourses and groundwater. Extensive investigation and cleaning work is behind the bill that we are dealing with today. In addition, several other laws will be reviewed and amended. This shows that the Vasstract Committee in its draft new law has stressed the need to follow up the general work of the previous government on regulatory simplification and to facilitate the reduction of the need for double treatment under several laws. This is very positive. The hearing bodies have been largely positive that today’s legislation is being completely revised. Of course, it is important to evaluate the impact after the amendment of the law; in particular, the Committee has noted that wide-ranging powers are given to the administration. If the intention of the law is not achieved, this must of course be followed up. The new law requires the watercourse authorities to monitor developments in watercourses and to supervise the planning, construction and operation of watercourses. As politicians, therefore, we have opportunities to follow this development. It is gratifying that the legislative proposal takes account of environmental and protection interests. The importance of biodiversity, sustainable development and the law-making of watercourse protection are thus having a greater impact on societal development. We welcome this in the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e317	The aim of the Water Resource Act is to ensure the socially sound use of watercourse and groundwater management. The instruments proposed in the law to ensure this aim extend the State’s right to intervene in ownership dramatically. The new law, in particular in the context of other legislation and case law that is not supposed to be amended, also gives serious cause for concern about the legal certainty of owners of water resources. The Coastal Party cannot participate in the adoption of the Water Resource Act in its present form. At the same time, we in the Party see the need for revised legislation in this field. The right thing must therefore be that the legislative proposal is sent back to the Government with a call for legislation that cannot be accepted and with a request for further investigation of unclear or questionable points. I would like to mention in particular the consequences of Section 51 of the bill. In the context of the preparatory work and related amendments to the 1959 Origeningsgesetz, this provision will mean that the general expropriation access of the old Law § 147 and 148 is dramatically extended from access to expropriation of fall rights for the benefit of the State and public-owned companies that only apply when the power is to be used for general supply in their own district. Afterwards, it will be possible to depriv the landowner/fall-right-holder of the resource even when it is to be used for commercial sales, i.e. pure profit vision. Access to such expropriation is also open for private use. This means that any company or private individual throughout the EEA territory is given the opportunity to take over the fall rights at the discretion of the administration. Notice, in Ot.prp. No 39 states that this means that private companies in the EEA countries are also given the opportunity to expropriate. This follows from the EEA rules in general and is not mentioned here. That it really is, however, is mentioned in the investigation work, in NOU 1994:12 on page 235 and beyond, in particular on page 236, second column, fourth paragraph. The coastal party may not in any way participate in such an extension of the access to expropriation. But we see the need for a clean regulatory framework, for example. when there is disagreement about falling rights. However, there is no need for such expropriation rules as compensation for Sections 56 and 57, which currently resolve such conflicts. The proposal that the rules of the Single Act should apply together with possibly a certain adaptation to land-change legislation should be sufficient. In general, I refer to the state’s access to the resource use of the owners, for example. precisely through joint measures under land-change legislation. Such arrangements should be able to be further developed in order to ensure the purpose of the law. There is no need for any extension of the general expropriation access. Such extension does not serve the interests of the State, the districts or the fall-rights. It is only a tool for the great in the struggle for the right of access to Norwegian resources. I have otherwise noticed the government's technique of camouflaging what is doubtful – but important – in the proposal. According to today's rules, for example: a fall-out jury exploits the fall even if the extension does not have a significant adverse effect on other private or public natural and environmental interests. Under the Water Resource Act, any exploitation of own hydropower resources can be stopped if the administration finds that a large company should rather expand. But to see that it really is, you have to read Section 8 of the bill in conjunction with the notes in the proposition on page 327, second column, second section. The concept of general interest in such formulations is, in reality, extended from natural and environmental considerations to also, and over time, likely to relate mainly to the interests of large-scale developers. Has the Energy and Environment Committee reflected on this relationship? Finally, I mention that over time the law and case law on power generation have evolved in a way that is not a democracy and a rule of law worthy. I don't have time to go into this, but I mention that the real value of falling rights became visible at the time of the introduction of the Energy Act, which also releases others than the big companies to the distribution network. It turns out then that the real value of the falls varies and may be up to 100 times higher than that established by legal judgement. Such judgements are based on so-called natural horsepowers in the development project in question, which in practice are determined by the developer himself. The value is determined quite independently of the fallright winner’s loss. It is inconclusive to draw the conclusion that the main purpose of the Water Resource Act is to consolidate and further expand the control of the large-scale society and the large-scale development interests already have with the resources of others. In addition, new private actors, both domestic and foreign, are opened up in a way that puts to the test a fundamental right with human rights status, namely the real estate institution. Property rights have the status of human rights in the European Convention on Human Rights, the Protocol of 1952, to which Norway has also acceded. The coastal party may not participate in such development. The proposal for the Water Resource Act should be sent back to the Government with a call for further investigation. I'm addressing proposal No. Three, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e340	Steinar Bastesen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President notes that the regulatory time is now running out, but suggests that the meeting continue until the current map is completed, as there is only a vote and a record. [[Footing, see next column]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e352	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e358	During the debate, Mr Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e384	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e394	President! I voted wrong. I voted against, but I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e401	The figures are then corrected to 62 votes in favour of the Committee's position and 15 votes in favour of the Procedural Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e408	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by the representative Steinar Bastesen First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 39 on the Law on Watercourses and Grounds is returned to the Government for further investigation of the provisions relating to expropriation.» [[1998 - 1999]] [[water resource laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e445	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e513	The party of progress and the representative Steinar Bastesen have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e640	A different proposal is made for the first subparagraph. That is proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 10 shall be replaced by the following: in the case of withdrawals of water which alters the flow of water in rivers and rivers with seasonally safe watercourses, at least the general low water flow shall be back unless otherwise provided for in this paragraph. If there is a risk of damage to fresh water life, the flow of water shall be higher. The same applies when water is held back by damming.» The Progress Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen have announced that they are moving towards the whole paragraph. The Socialist Left Party's proposal and then the vote will be voted on first.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e911	The party of progress and the representative Steinar Bastesen have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e1052	The party of progress and the representative Steinar Bastesen have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e1356	The party of progress and the representative Steinar Bastesen have announced that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e1824	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12-lower.ana.ud1192e1832	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
