ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e75	A number of permit applications are available: from the nominated Grand Delegation to the United Kingdom on leave, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Grand President Hans J. Røsjorde, on 4 and 5 April from the Grand President Hans J. Røsjorde and the representatives of Ansgar Gabrielsen, Elsa Skarbøvik, Gunnar Skaug, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Marit Tingelstad from the Workers' Party Group on the welfare permit of the representative Sverre Myrli on Thursday 30 March from the delegation to the Council of Europe's 2000 session, Part 2 from the European Council, in Strasbourg on leave, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Grand Representative Tom Thoresen, for the representative of Jan Simonsen from 3 April to 6 April and for the representatives of Eirin Faldet, Tomas Norvoll, Jorunn Ringstad, Lars Rise and Anita Apelthun Seal in days 4 and 5 April These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate from the Hordaland County, Kurt-Arne Langeland, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Anita Apelthun Sæles leave on 4 and 5 April for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are hereby convened to meet during the term of office: For the West-Agder counties: Anne Berit AndersenFor Akershus County: Rikke LindFor Hedmark County: Anne Christel JohnsgaardFor the Hordaland counties: Kari Sørheim and Terje SøviknesFor the Nordland counties: Bears OlsenFor the Uppland counties: Terje StensengFor Oslo: Ann Kathrine TornåsFor the Rogaland counties: Toril Haaland Horpestad and Helga RullestadFor the Sogn and Fjordane counties: Håkon GiilFor the Westfold counties: Harald SolbergFor the Eastfold counties: Morten Olsen3. Terje Søviknes, Terje Stenseng, Ann Kathrine Tornås and Harald Solberg are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Hans J. Røsjorde, Marit Tingelstad, Lars Rise and Elsa Skarbøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e198	Rikke Lind is present and will take the seat. The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e203	On behalf of Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I would like to propose an independent study of the reduction of CO2 emissions in the construction of gas power plants in Norway, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e208	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e211	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to make suggestions to ask the Government as General Assembly in Statoil to replace the Governing Board in favour of a new one of the necessary competence and to give instructions to the Board regarding the management wage policy and the waiting pay system to be followed by the company. [[parachute system]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e216	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will inform that the referrals to Case No. 1-7 has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with these matters now. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e230	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e244	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e258	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e272	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e286	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e300	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e314	It is an important agreement today by the majority of the Grand Duchy, which was also highlighted in the Declaration of Accession of the Stoltenberg Government. The World Bank's Carbon Fund is the first initiative under the Kyoto Protocol linked to quota trading. The purpose of the carbon fund is to invest in project-based greenhouse gas reductions in developing countries and in countries with transition economies, such as Eastern Europe and post-Soviet countries. The contributors should be both country and private companies, and yesterday we could read in Today's Business that Statoil and Norsk Hydro are going to buy climate allowances in the fund for a total of 80 million. DKK, or 10 million. dollar. The World Bank's Carbon Fund hopes to manage 150 million. dollar, and the fund is actually about to be fully drawn. The aim of the project is to approve the emission reductions under the two project-based Kyoto mechanisms: joint implementation under Article 6 and the Clean Development Mechanism under Article 12. Joint implementation allows project-based cooperation between emission-committed countries. The Green allows developed countries to finance emission reduction projects in developing countries and to use the achieved emission reductions to meet parts of their commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. Global warming is one of the most serious environmental problems facing the world. Even small changes in the global average temperature can lead to major changes in the climate. We're recording that the temperature of the earth is rising. We are increasingly experiencing unusual weather conditions. Floods, unusually large rainfalls, extreme winds – all with great destruction and great human suffering – have become part of the media image. We have the flood disaster in Mozambique in fresh memory. The World Disaster Report from the Red Cross shows that the number of people in need of emergency aid as a result of natural disasters has increased from 500,000 to 5.5 million people in the last six to six years. The costs of damage to the natural environment have tripled in 30 years, and last year were about 700 billion kroner. The Kyoto Agreement is a first step in global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, an agreement with numerically binding emission reductions. Emission allowances and joint implementation shall result in greater emission reductions and in addition contribute to the transfer of technology and capital from rich to poor countries. The agreement says that many of the measures need to be implemented nationally. However, the agreement also opens up allowances trading and joint implementation. The proposal underlines that a comprehensive and effective climate strategy requires cooperation between authorities and the private sector. Norwegian State participation in the World Bank's Carbon Fund will give a positive signal to Norwegian private actors who consider joining the fund, which we have already seen has given positive results. The investors who donate funds to the Carbon Fund will receive a proportionate share of the realised emission reductions from the projects, which will be used to meet parts of each country’s emission obligations under the Kyoto Protocol for the period 2008 to 2012. The first two projects are starting up already this year. One is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions of methane from waste landfills in Latvia. The second is the construction of a mini-water power plant in Costa Rica. The Norwegian contribution will cover the total period of approximately one year. Eighty million. SEK, of which 8 million. kr was granted over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ budget for the current year and was part of the budgetary agreement between the Workers’ Party and the intermediate parties. As we know, environmental problems are also closely linked to the development of poverty. Environmental improvements are also poverty reduction. On that basis, I take note that the Progress Party will vote against Norwegian participation in the World Bank's Carbon Fund. With this, I would recommend the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e347	It is unnecessary for me to take the floor now, because Marit Nybakk has already announced that the Progress Party will vote against. I don't see any reason to take a new, longer debate on the Kyoto agreement here now, so I'm just going to make sure that we vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e352	Quite briefly, I would like to agree with both the opinions and opinions expressed by the rapporteur on behalf of the majority. It is gratifying that there is a broad political consensus that Norway should be included in this agreement on participation in the World Bank's Carbon Fund. This means that Norway takes an important part in the responsibility for one of the most serious global climate issues, namely global warming generated by greenhouse gas emissions. As is known, Norway has committed to a maximum increase in such emissions by 1 pst. annual average over the period 2008 to 2012 compared to the base year 1990. And although this nominally implies an increase, it is doubtful that this poses a significant challenge in view of the lack of stabilisation of emissions, as the situation is today. I will not elaborate on how the possible construction of highly polluting gas power plants will reinforce the problems we will have in following up our climate commitments under the Kyoto agreement. I just want to point out that there is no simple way out of the problems through quota purchases, whether this has to be done through the World Bank's Carbon Fund or other quota schemes that would have to be negotiated under the Kyoto Protocol. I have noticed and am pleased that the majority now stands united behind the understanding that the flexible implementation mechanisms cannot replace national measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but should be an important complement to such measures. Thus, it is still up to Norway, the Norwegian industry and other activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore necessary to work in parallel with these key environmental issues, both to develop national greenhouse gas reduction measures and to develop cost-effective and flexible implementation mechanisms, preferably national, preferably Nordic and also European, alongside the global mechanisms underpinning the Kyoto agreement. Norwegian participation in the World Bank Carbon Fund with State involvement, as the Stortinget is invited here, is a positive signal for business to stop participating in the World Bank's Carbon Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e365	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e379	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e393	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e404	It's a big and important thing The Storting today has to deal with. In the shadow of the events of the last weeks, the big business message on electronic commerce and business has not received the attention it deserves. The development of electronic commerce and business activities can lead to profound changes in the Norwegian society. Developments can be positive if we facilitate conversion and innovation. But it can also be negative if we do not exploit the opportunities and instead become spectators of international development. Norway has good prospects for meeting the challenge offensively. We have strong environments of expertise in ICT and a population that are industrious and curious users of new telecommunications and information technologies. According to statistics, 650 000 Norwegians have already traded on the Internet. In the course of the year, almost one million will have traded on the Internet in Norway. In autumn 1999, it was estimated that total global e-commerce will grow from 150 billion dollars in 1999 to 300 billion dollars this year. This is expected to rise to over $600 billion next year and to $1,000 billion in 2002. The wholesale communication on electronic commerce and business is very good. However, the Committee has needed to make the content more binding and to put in place some new elements. On behalf of the Right, I am very pleased with the fate of the matter in the Committee, where a majority in vital areas follows up important signals from the Norwegian IT industry. In this context, it is worth drawing out the constructive input that both ICT Norway and e-forum have contributed. In many areas, there is a unanimous committee behind the setting. Nevertheless, there is reason to note that in several important areas the Labour Party has chosen to jump by the majority. The development of electronic commerce creates and will create major changes in established trade patterns. E-commerce makes it easier for customers to be briefed and easier for businesses to reach their customers. However, the result is that the intensity of competition will increase. But it is a prerequisite for growth and development that we have framework conditions in line with the rest of the world, and not just for Norwegian IT industry, but for all forms of industry and trade that experience stronger competition, among others. via the Internet. We have a global trading space available with opening time 24 hours per. 24 hours a year. The Internet and electronic commerce operate across time zones and radically change the way they work. We see strong trends in changes in the established industrial structure. The rate of renewal is changing rapidly, and we see large movements in investment capital between the so-called old and new economy. This capital migration creates both challenges and problems for the traditional industry. We've put instruments in place to allow for a significant increase in productivity. For the time being, the US dominates the e-commerce investment. This is largely happening in the United States, but Asia and Europe are coming after. We also have more promising environments in Norway. I am quite sure that when the world today with wonder records ten years of continuous growth in the United States, this is due to the implemented use and development of new technologies. This development has provided room for productivity improvement, which has made it possible to free up capital and labour. Free hands have been added to new tasks. From the Right, we are pleased that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has now also become an IT department. This obligates. One of the first challenges facing the new Council of State is to have a strategy to get the many thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway online. Disturbing people are still of the opinion that the Internet will have no impact on their business. Such a strategy and programme is at least as important and much more forward-looking as the work carried out by the country in the context of the 2000 problem. It is wrong to manufacture the Norwegian IT industry as if we were far from the best. In several areas, the Norwegian IT industry is leading. However, further progress is needed and needs to be made by Norwegian politicians. And once again, it is about providing Norwegian actors with a framework for development that is no worse than what we find abroad. Therefore, it is with amazement that I note that the Workers' Party does not end up giving the Norwegian e-commerce and IT industry the framework conditions that are at least in line with those of comparable countries. In important areas, the working party in the setting cultivates the role as a brake pad. The lot will neither be involved in improvements in property taxes nor in the option tax assessment of tax incentives for research and development cooperation between enterprises. We already have enough examples that today's tax rules lead to Norwegian entrepreneurs and Norwegian companies either moving out of the country or being bought up early in the company's development. I have noticed that both the new Minister of Economic Affairs and the Government in its Declaration of Accession have ambitions in the field of electronic commerce. If this is to be something more than a honeymoon, new grip must be taken, and it will soon be. The taxes on wealth are brutally passed on by many IT companies. Expectations of future income often give rise to high values, even though in many cases companies have not yet made any particular money. Despite the fact that the owners have therefore not received any dividends, the property tax must be paid in full. Active owners must in such cases sell shares only in order to pay the property tax. The result, of course, is that people do not find themselves in this and move both themselves and the company out of the country. I am pleased that the majority, all except the Workers' Party, have understood this and in the vote it is clear that the wealth tax must be reduced. We should learn from success factors from other countries, and we don't have to travel that far. We should facilitate the renewal and self-stimulation of the use of e-commerce by the public sector, including with regard to electronic procurement requirements. This includes the possibility of billions of savings, while other efficiencies can be obtained. It is more important that the necessary infrastructure and broadband services are put in place and provide a good offer to users than being concerned about who is going to do the job. Competition should be set free in this respect in the interests of speed and cost. Without broadband services quickly, much of the development will stop because it will simply take too long to use the Internet. Electronic commerce can provide great opportunities for District Norway. Where proximity to the market in the past was crucial, many services can be performed equally electronically in the future even if the company is far away from the customer. Similarly, access through user-friendly Internet sites can offset some of the disadvantages by being far away from the markets. Electronic commerce will change the existing transport pattern. It is a challenge both for distribution and for postal services, which must be open to increased competition and to future solutions to transport. In this respect, I would like to point out that the majority, all except the Workers' Party, explicitly makes it clear that electronic commerce must not be subject to special-purpose taxes and charges in the form of new import and customs duties, for example. Although it is the so-called ‘business-to-business’ trade that will dominate e-commerce, it is unacceptable for the Post to prevent retail trade by a dramatic increase in the customs duty. This can hardly be in line with our WTO obligations, and I am asking the Council of State to ensure that the consumer's online commerce is not suffocated by the Post. We record that the EU has the ambition to create an Internet industry that can compete with the United States. We have to have the same ambitions. The Committee attaches great importance to the ability of Norwegian industry to deal with the same legislation as competitors in EU countries and to the absence of uncertainty as to whether and when e-commerce-related EU legislation is applied in Norway. The Committee therefore asks the Government to ensure that Norway is in line with EU countries in implementing the provisions of relevant Directives. So I have to touch the school and the fact that we're probably going to largely lack people with IT skills in the future. To meet the challenges of the IT sector in Norway too, there is a need for a total overhaul of our education system. In addition, Norway is at the same level in Europe as regards research. In this area, too, the new IT minister has a job to tackle. And why not start with closer cooperation with ICT industry organisations in this area too? Finally, there are two points I would like to raise. The first is an error in the setting, where on page 7, the second last paragraph, says that there is a note from the Working Party and the Right. It should be a note from the Central Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. And finally, there has appeared on the table a proposal from the centre parties, which just a few days ago were government parties. It was those who made this announcement, and I don't know what kind of fresh information has appeared in these hours, since this was not included in the last information written to the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e446	The President will take note of Mr Kristiansen's representative's comments on the error of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e449	The e-commerce stuttering message takes account of one of the new areas of use brought about by the new information and communication technology. In this area, it happens quite quickly. What we now see is that the first stage, called e-commerce and the second stage of e-business, so-called e-business, melts so that we will eventually have most of the business transactions online. Over time, it will hardly be anything called e-commerce, it will only be trade. And with a further development of technology, I'm thinking about the merger of the Internet and mobile phones, this electronic interaction will obviously only increase in the future. It is clear that Norwegian business must be involved in this, and as far ahead as possible, both in knowledge, technology, production, marketing, distribution and distribution. The public sector must also have the same offensive attitude to exploit e-commerce as well as other opportunities that this new technology still offers. The same applies now as we expressed in the report ‘Norwegian IT Road’. Bit by bit.» in 1996: Norway must be a front edge. It is easy to see many negative consequences of e-commerce, but at all technological developments there are both dangers and opportunities. We both have to assess and deal with the negative consequences as best we can, and exploit the possibilities as best we can. It is therefore easy to join the overarching goal of the message to bring Norway to the forefront of developments in this area. Norway's position as an IT nation is good, but not just for boasting. Norwegian business is behind the OECD average for the use of e-commerce. An OECD report from October 1999 shows that the average growth rate of OECD countries for knowledge-based industries is twice as high as that of Norway. For innovation measured in the number of IT patents and bringing product to market, Norway is actually at the bottom of the list. It is interesting and useful for Stortinget to get a description of e-commerce as the message provides, but the weakness of this message as well as of most of the big messages is that they are easy to become technical and professional documents. The question will then be what will be the policy? What will be the political space for action? What possibilities do authorities have at all to govern and stimulate any of these? Or is it that changes are driven by economic and technical decisions outside the political space? What will be the impact on society — overall, there are many issues that politicians need to analyse and have a conscious relationship with. There is therefore a need for the Government to come back to the Storting with a briefing in which one discusses the soundness of technological developments with particular emphasis on the policy role of the new economy. Now I register that there is a proposal that is on the table here today, which one also asks the Government to come back again. I feel in many ways that the setting has taken care of exactly what is in this proposal from the centre party today. Now it's important to focus on what it takes to achieve the ambitious goal of being ahead of you, and here I'm going to get into some points. Of course, the framework conditions for Norwegian ICT-based business must bring together competitive sets. As far as advice is concerned, there must be far-reaching legal and economic framework conditions ensuring Norwegian companies’ competitiveness at national and international level. This covers several areas. The tax and tax issues, which were also discussed in the previous speech, are, of course, becoming entirely central. Let me therefore make it clear, in the light of what Mr Kristiansen said, that the Labour Party, like the other parties in the Trade Committee, sees the need for competitive conditions in this area as well. But we believe that tax and tax issues do not primarily belong to the home of this treatment, but that they need to be evaluated in a larger context, and we will come back to this in connection with tax matters from the Government to the Stortinget. Among other things, there is already a proposition about the option tax before Easter, where we will clearly do something about the current option tax. The second action is the strengthening of competences. One of the main challenges will be access to skills and professionals that can be involved in the innovation and development of existing enterprises. This has been the subject of many rounds here in Stortinget, among others. in connection with the processing of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Education at existing educational institutions needs to be strengthened, but that is not enough. We must have increased research and increased interaction between education, research and business. And it's here development centers, whether it's in Fornebu or out in the regions, have an important role. The third requirement for happiness is that public opinion should lead to the use of online solutions. Increased use of electronic business in the public sector will provide better services to citizens, reduce costs and reduce further work through simplified procurement procedures. However, for a number of reasons it is not possible to use electronic communications. There will probably be fewer, but we can't make arrangements that exclude anyone from this, in the eagerness to put everything into practice. Then, of course, it must be an electronic infrastructure covering the whole country. E-commerce, as another use of ICT, has both a centralising and decentralised potential. A requirement to exploit the decentralising potential is at least that broadband networks come everywhere, and that price and availability are as similar as possible. But then we have to be willing to use the necessary tools through concession terms for the telecommunications operators to get this to, for universal service, co-financing, use of the maximum price scheme osb. Because I think it's completely unrealistic that the state can now spend $9 billion on expanding a broadband network. Then we have a series of relationships that the authorities have to work with, which not all can be solved nationally. We need to guarantee consumers the same dishes and the same protection by electronic means as by traditional trade. Here, action must be taken against criminal acts and unwanted content, privacy measures osb. – in a number of areas, including both the message and the setting, which I will not repeat here. But I want to point out how necessary international cooperation is, whether it is now through the WTO, OECD or other international forums. I'll finally go into an area where we have to be more offensive. There is no doubt that e-commerce will change the nature of the labour market. Many jobs will be lost, at least what we can call the first line service. On the other hand, there will be new possibilities, especially within everything that has to do with logistics. And here the post office, which has built up a lot for several years, should now see its casting time. For a distribution system that might bring the products and goods to the customer will be necessary. As also case-speaker Kristiansen was in, the transport needs create in the whole new challenges that we need to have a clear strategy to solve. Finally, as I've already pointed out, the authority's action room is somewhat limited in this area. Many solutions will require international agreements and cooperation. In other words, this area is another example of the need for even more mandatory international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e477	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e480	I need to ask the Labour Party a little further about the small differences that are now between the Workers' Party and the majority in this position, and it is especially about tax issues. Rudihagen now said in his statement that the reason why one had special comments, or would not be involved in the majority comments in these areas, was that one would come back to it in a broader context. It may be okay, but there is a certain need to clarify whether the Workers' Party still believes that in some areas it is possible to pursue an autonomous Norwegian tax policy that takes account of some Norwegian considerations that may be different both in terms of our needs and perhaps in terms of the values that we want to assert in Norwegian society. I need to hear that, because according to what has been said today, and since this setting was written before the Workers' Party came into government, it is a little important to know what position the Workers' Party is now taking in these matters. Is it the case that the Workers' Party still believes that it should be able to pursue an autonomous tax policy even on such issues, or is the Labour Party's view that a fully adapted tax policy should be pursued, just to do so in a wider context, so that it does not appear?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e487	I thought it was a very important point that Andersen's representative raised. Because, as I said, Norway is going to be involved in this, we must have a competitive framework – I deliberately used the term ‘total set’. One of the reasons why we are not included in the multiple comments in the option is that the multiple has used the expression "harmonizing" Norwegian rules. with the United States, with EU country osb. We have a little counter-representation to the effect that one should adapt without further delay to the tax, tax and framework conditions of others. There should be an interaction between Norway and other countries in order to arrive at the highest possible level and best possible framework conditions for Norwegian business. But it's not supposed to be a one-sided adaptation from the Norwegian side. It is therefore important that one discusses this in a larger context, where one sees the overall tax and tax issues as a whole, and does not use this e-commerce message – which, to the extent not so much concerned with discussing precisely those questions – to go beyond what we have in a way started on the basis of the clear objective of having a good framework for Norwegian business, but at the same time have a tax and tax regime with which Norway is also engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e492	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e495	Electronic commerce means all forms of commercial and commercial transactions over electronic networks. The notification covers the opportunities that are available and will be provided by trading and trading through a vast array of information and communication via the Internet. This represents major challenges for both business and private individuals. Developments are happening at the raging speed, and great ability to convert and constantly adapt to those of us who are going to face this development on behalf of society and business. But the future won't just be the computer screen at home and at work. The coming generation of mobile phones could be equipped for this type of online commerce. E-commerce is for the information revolution what the railway was for the industrial revolution. Electronic money is the digital equivalent of cash. Its cheaper and simpler it is to buy a digital product legally, the less will the temptation be to try to access the product illegally. The EU has just adopted a directive on the regulation of the issuance and use of electronic money. It opens up and encourages non-banks to issue electronic money. Telecoms and others are therefore given the opportunity to compete with the traditional financial institutions in these areas and to form part of important alliances. In order for everyone to have confidence in e-commerce, it is necessary to develop rules, procedures and standards for electronic commerce. In particular, there are measures for the encryption and development of digital signatures that can provide such trust. The communication is marked by the technical and technical possibilities and is rather little influenced by the political and societal consequences of the IT revolution. It is therefore skeptical that the notification does not focus more strongly on SMEs. Experience from other countries, including The United States is that many small and medium-sized enterprises do not take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Internet. The Progress Party will therefore highlight the importance of developing a strategy to promote e-commerce in small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the political spotlight must be focused not only on the impact on businesses but on consumers and the nation as a whole. With regard to the part of the notification concerning the protection of individuals and consumers, the Progress Party is committed to how it is possible to protect children and young people from online marketing. It is also of concern that the use of the network and the use of electronic payment systems leave so-called electronic tracks. This may lead to a website losing knowledge of the individual customer, and by collecting and processing this information, marketing tailors the marketing to specific customers. From a privacy point of view, this development may be worrying if steps are not taken to restore the balance between the parties. As mentioned above, the action rooms of the authorities are initially limited. Many solutions will require international agreements – the cooperation that has been pointed out more – not least to counter criminal acts and online pornography. Important are also instruments for international protection of intellectual rights. It is said that one calendar year corresponds to seven Internet tears. The policy and pace of implementation of each country will therefore play a key role in the coming period. The countries that succeed in the new economy must have authorities that are capable of action and understand the scope for action they have and the instruments that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e514	The future society means more changes for each one of us than what we have a review of. Some of the changes mean more power of consumption and more service to customers. The message we are handling today is the recording of such a change, as I see it. Recently, the Business Committee had a hearing on the agricultural notification. The small user team then demonstrated their web pages. There they added to send in the post their organic or special tasty product directly to the customer. Everything can't be distributed like this, but much more than we can imagine. After only four to five years of Internet e-commerce, we can see that there is a future in electronic commerce. One calculates that electronic commerce and business operations will be in force at 20 pst. of the economy in the future. And of course, we don't really know that evolution stops there. E-commerce is also combined with other trends. Network marketing, so-called MLM – multi-level marketing – together with direct sales is a way of translating goods that are developing at a fast pace around the world. This means, combined with e-commerce both for consumers and between businesses, a network economy of a scale that makes the new technology possible. The Storting had a case at the end of last year when they asked that the Government in the marketing law develop rules for the network, which was then a particularly gallant MLM business. These rules shall be forward-looking and shall be compatible with the laws of other Western countries. This I think is very positive, and I think we should welcome the new network economy. Of course, there are many challenges and actually a good deal of problems. But that means a freer competition, and that means fewer stages in the distribution of goods, that often means less advertising power and evenly over cheaper goods to consumers. In this big message, which the Committee recommended every six years on the historic day of 9 March 2000, the Bondevik Government proposes that Norway be on the front when it comes to electronic commerce and business. The Committee broadly agreed on the Bondevik Government and the Sponheim Government's proposals. The Bondevik government has invested in five main strategies: Firstly, there are prudential legal rules and financial framework conditions. Small founders and processors shall not be left to arbitrariness and insecurity. Secondly, it invests on an infrastructure that simplifies both usage and access. Internet access in Norway is on the verge and is still increasing. The ISDN availability on a national basis is 97 pst, and e-commerce will mean a clean-up for the postal system. We just don't need to drop any more post offices. The third main strategy is to ensure that the public sector makes its purchases electronically as soon as possible. This is important for creating a critical volume of e-commerce. The goal is for all government agencies to be on "net" before the end of the year. There is a requirement for the new government to follow this closely. The savings potential is estimated at $20 billion. Fourth, the previous government and this committee would focus on knowledge and competence, so that adverse and unfortunate consequences are reduced. And fifth, Norway is going to be in the front line to take care of security, privacy and consumer protection. Reciprocals for such social purposes will be sought and can obtain Norwegian players competitive demonstrators. The Committee is aware that Norway has leading companies to secure online trade by ensuring that payments are made in a safe manner. It is important that research and development funds are available to such enterprises, because there is no doubt that e-commerce will also create new opportunities for fraud. So these principles have been fully implemented, and the Christian People's Party naturally expects that the new government will actively follow up measures necessary for e-commerce, both for consumption and between businesses, to be given good conditions. The vision is nothing less than that Norway should be a transit country in the online trade. Technological developments are opening up the world and making globalisation possible. This naturally brings challenges. Poor Norway with an open economy is faced with customization tasks. In this context, it is important that consumers’ interests are properly preserved. I was with two of the colleagues in the Silicon Valley Business Committee to study developments and possibilities within what they call "e-commerce". In California, where developments have come furthest, they point to three key success factors for innovation in the new economy. Firstly, there was access to skilled labour. San Francisco was an Asian city. Chinese and Indians have immigrated and have imparted California knowledge and competence. Second, it's actually allowed to fail. Many founders crossed both ends one and two times, but got the chance again – and the light test. Thirdly, there was good access to risk capital. What a so-called Angles investor was crucial. It's private owners who dare and can afford to bet on a good idea and a founder who believes in one. Such framework conditions are undoubtedly necessary also for Norway. For this reason, the majority of the Committee points to economic factors such as the option of adding and taxes on wealth. The Christian People's Party is content that the Storting has decided that we should improve the option arrangements. We have also pointed out that the wealth tax is a strange tax that can create problems, not least for ICT companies. High value adjustments with the following taxes on wealth long before the enterprise comes into the ignition phase mean an untimely taxing. In our globalized world, it's no longer possible, I think, to hold on to such taxation. The most valuable businesses then move out naturally, and Norway misses out on both jobs, competences and tax revenues. A majority of the Committee therefore requests changes in the taxes on wealth that counteract such developments. Electronic commerce is making new demands on our current tax system. It is important that a person works internationally to establish the principles and solutions for the taxation of such trade. Such a principle is not yet in place. Here the new Minister of Industry has very great challenges. Also within this area, there is a need for a simpler Norway. For founders, the code may appear as an unsurpassed wall. The Christian People's Party is content that it is established a called father's arrangement, where companies get help from a public contact person who can provide maximum facilities for founders. Otherwise, all the ‘vessen’ in Norway must be allowed to take a stand if Norway is to win the competition in the new economy. The Christian People's Party will also remind the sitting government that a collective committee has joined the Bondevik government's promise that all parts of the country will have an equivalent supply of distribution services for physical goods. Knowledge and competence are crucial for Norway’s happiness in the new network economy. I know that the new Minister of Industry is concerned about that. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that this competence must not be clumsied in Fornebu, but must be fed to District Norway, where very much of the value creation and export-oriented industry is actually located. The great advantage of e-commerce, as the Christian People's Party sees it, is that it cancels something by way of past distance. This is, of course, a huge advantage for our country, which will always be geographically located on the edge of the world, giving Norwegian companies and District Norway new market opportunities. It also opens up the possibility of reaching markets even with small-scale operations and restricted by means of marketing. Of course, it will also apply to foreign enterprises. The home market may be less secure in the future. There is a suggestion on the table. That will be the reason for the proposer. That things with consequences for us happen between surrender and debate are symptomatic of this area of the economy. At the Lisbon meeting, decisions were taken with consequences also for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e581	Electronic communications will become increasingly important both in relation to industries, in relation to industries, in relation to the development of jobs and in relation to how we organise society. It is therefore a very important matter we have for treatment in Stortinget today. All of this facilitates Norway to be a leading country in the use of ICT, including electronic commerce. We have a high level of education, we have a high level of PC density, a large part of the business world is far advanced in technology, although it is true, as has been said here, that especially small and medium-sized enterprises have developed the use of electronic commerce so far. And we have last, but not least a well-developed and competent public sector. In addition to this, we have a geography and a housing pattern that makes use of ICT and electronic commerce a natural development, which gives us new opportunities in relation to decentralisation, but which also unquestionably confronts us with some challenges in relation to industry development and in relation to the location of jobs. Some of the key prerequisites that need to be met for us to be able to realise the potential of electronic commerce are the demand for education, research and infrastructure development, that we adequately address consumer concerns, both in terms of payment security and in relation to privacy issues, and, as several speakers have also pointed out, that we are facilitating framework conditions that enable us to have a competitive business life in this area. Of course, there is no reason to hide the fact that the developments we are now seeing and the new economy will also have a major impact on the location and creation of jobs. At all, the way we get our services done is going to change dramatically. It's enough to look at what's happening within banks, where during this year we're going to experience that hundreds of thousands of users are going to switch to electronic banking services and are no longer going to visit the bank's counter in the way that we've traditionally been used to. It will have an impact on jobs in the banking sector, it will in the long term have an impact on the banking structure, and this will also have an impact on those people who will not make use of electronic services, because they will always exist. No matter how this development might come forward, there will be someone who will not benefit from these new services, this new economy, and who will thus be the ones who will be negatively affected in the first place when we see the changes that may come. We have also seen that this development has been significant in relation to the postal services for a long time. – This is just to mention a few examples, but we will also see this in many other areas. I want to spend some time on infrastructure, because in my opinion it is the most important prerequisite for us to be able to promote electronic commerce and the use of ICT. In several areas, the Bondevik government had set in motion efforts to support infrastructure development and development. We had a working group that was linked to the Ministry of Local Affairs, and an inter-ministerial working group with the deadline of 1 April to present the position in relation to the strategy for broadband deployment. I assume that both of these areas are being followed up by the new government, because both of these working groups had the task of promoting the deployment of the broadband network in a way that would prevent us from developing an A and a B team in the country. I am quite convinced that the market will solve most of the expansion of broadband networks, but I also think it is necessary that the state plays an active role both in correcting the market where the market is not working properly, and in stimulating demand in areas where the market is too small to allow for rapid enough expansion, and also contributes to the development of some areas. I am also fully convinced that it will be a role that the state must assume in order simply to ensure that we do not get an A and a B team, where significant parts of District Norway do not get development as quickly and at the same price as other parts of the country. There is a need for reinforced efforts in this area, and I think there is also a need for us to try to achieve the widest possible political cooperation to ensure that we, as a nation, come to the forefront in the development and use of ICT. This is not a matter where we can afford as a nation to play on political bargains, but where we need to achieve the widest possible political cooperation to find the best solutions for the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e598	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e601	For a party that is not represented in the committee, there is sometimes a need to clarify things, and the need is when you don't recognize parties. When I read the setting in this case, I do not know the center part again. I asked the Workers' Party if it was not such that the Workers' Party still believes that there must be a national space to pursue tax policy. They said yes. Suffering if I know that the working party probably believes that the room is a little less than SV thinks, I was at least very pleased with the recognition that came. When I read the setting, it doesn't look like the center party anymore means the same thing. We can only talk about electronic commerce when it says that we need to adapt not only to the EU, but even to the US tax regime, and that is quite a bad thing. I need to ask the Central Party whether they actually mean what is said here, and whether it is only for electronic commerce that you should have such a tax regime. In this case, it is contrary to any of the other things that are in the configuration, namely that there should be no discrimination between different forms of trade. In addition, I would like to ask the Central Party why they have chosen to stand outside with regard to the comment that the Workers' Party has here, which SV would have been at if we had been in the Committee, that it must be possible to set Norwegian municipalities free with regard to the limits of what must be open to competition, in order to avoid that smaller local suppliers will not lose out completely in competition. What's the reason why the Center Party doesn't agree with this? Does the Central Party believe that Norwegian municipalities should not have any kind of impact on who they are going to deal with, or be able to make any decisions that bring the communities a living in, in which I thought the Centre party was busy, for the benefit of?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e612	Of course, I also believe that there is room for national tax provisions. We're going to stick to that, and we're going to use it in most of the contexts. However, in the same way that the Centre Party has been involved in facilitating special tax provisions in the shipping industry because of the special conditions that characterise that industry, we also see that in some other areas it is necessary to adapt the level of taxation to competing countries to a greater extent than is generally the case. This new industry is an industry that we know more than any other industry will be located where the tax level and framework conditions are best adapted. Of course, progress towards harmonisation should not be exaggerated, but I think it is absolutely essential that we take the necessary steps to stimulate the development of this industry, so that we do not become a B team in relation to the development we have seen in Ireland, in Finland and, in part, also in Sweden, which unfortunately in some of these areas lies far ahead of us in the development of the new industry. In any case, as a nation, we will lose, much more than if we will harmonise the tax and tax conditions with these countries that we are talking about here. So in relation to the ability of individual municipalities to stand free with regard to purchases: I assume, of course, that the general guidelines on what to tender will be followed, and that these are the frameworks on which the cancellation is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e619	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e622	I very much agree with those who have said that it is a very important message we are dealing with today, and that this will require follow-up in the future. For this is an area where development is fast and where it is very easy to get on the heel. I also share the criticism that there is the lack of analysis of the societal consequences and the measures we should take there – at least as quickly as this trade develops – we need to focus, because it is important to have some political objectives in dealing with such important business areas and commercial areas, which have been able to take full control of societal developments. For SV, it is also important when we talk about electronic commerce, that the measures we take reduce differences between people, and that they do not create unnecessary insecurity. That is why some of what SV has been fighting for for for many years, namely to equip school for ICT education, which is also one of the most important things in this case. Several have been involved in consumer protection, and this is of course important. But it's not just about privacy and electronic tracks, it's also about being able to handle these instruments, not only technically, but also understanding how they work, how the new way of marketing things works, how to deal with it as a responsible and conscious consumer, so that you don't get exposed to different kinds of pressures that you can't handle. That's why it's important to invest in the school, that's right from primary school, with training in these areas. Also, if you want a business to be open, which is going to be in front of you, which is going to be offered to use these new tools, it is very important to have a solid school commitment in these areas. Obviously, it is also necessary to invest in the infrastructure, as has been mentioned by everyone here. For SV, it is important that it is made available to all and at an almost equal price, and we agree with those who believe that regulatory action here is likely to have to be taken in order for this to be possible. There are quite large offensive targets set in the message and also in the configuration. One wants Norway to be in the forefront and has the aim of enabling each individual citizen and school to use the Internet and e-commerce. There is a goal that SV also shares, and then we see that part of the bet, as we have said, must be in school, part of the bet must be in research, and part of the bet must be on building the necessary infrastructure. So to the circumstances that I have chosen to address in this debate before today, namely the tax and tax aspects of this matter. SV is fully aware that we live in a globalised and open world, where we are exposed to competition, and that it maritimely also affects the space we have when we are going to design our tax policy, also when we are going to design rules on how to organise different industries and different conditions in society. However, it is necessary to keep the possibility open in order to have a maritime tax policy in Norway. It is absolutely necessary if we are to achieve objectives in different areas. I have perhaps been most amazed at the centre parties in this matter, when they have so clearly chosen not to pay attention to it. I would like to remind you of another very important message that the central government provided, and which we are also going to deal with in ours, namely the Equalization message. If we're going to follow the logic of the Equalizer message, it says that we actually have to redistribute, from those who now earn a lot, to those who earn a little. What we know is that it's through business and trade you make a lot of money. If you put on the line that all this is not to be taxed more than one actually does in the United States, I'm afraid that we end up with a different society that looks like the United States, that doesn't look like Norway and what we want. So I actually have to ask that the centre parties now think a little bit about their argument about tax policy, and are there to keep the possibility of a national space of action. I expect that from the no-parties on Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e633	The big picture we have today is very important because it concerns the framework conditions for completely new business practices and for a number of new businesses. Although we are just at the beginning of what is called the new economy, it is clear that companies that invest in electronic commerce and business are facing unnecessary obstacles in the form of laws and regulations adapted to traditional business practices. Removing unnecessary obstacles and taking the right steps to maintain strong growth in the new Norwegian economy is therefore essential for achieving the goal of Norway being among the world's leading electronic commerce. The fact that e-commerce is driven out of the market does not mean that politicians should stay away. However, Norway cannot be assumed to be in the lead. We need to create that position, and we can only do that by giving the market, or more precisely the combination of creative heads and competent capital, framework conditions at the level of the best in the world. This is a big problem. And it's not easy either. It is not just a matter of technical tasks such as removing obstacles to, for example: use of digital signatures in the law. It is equally about massive investment in knowledge-based innovation through research and development, and it is about implementing fairly expensive tax changes. Above all, we as countries must also take greater risks in industrial policy. We must dare to spend more money on the new and unknown, and less on protecting the secure and existing. The cancellation message was submitted nine months ago. It is quite a long time in e-commerce and Internet contexts. Since June 1999, e-commerce has also received a completely different attention. Nevertheless, the policy recommendations of the EEAS are still very good. Then, too, the message is unique in the international context. With the Storting's support for everything essential in the Communication, it will be standing as an example of the central government, and I must be allowed to say the Left in particular, both foresight and innovation in business policy. I would also like to take the opportunity to give the President-in-Office, Ivar Kristiansen, the honor of his management of the Committee's position. The new recordings that the committee makes are interesting and good. This is not least the issue of tax incentives for firms investing in research and development. I finally want to comment on some of the most important points in the setting. First, it is necessary for the Government to make proposals during the year for the removal of or a significant reduction in the taxes on wealth. New promising companies are priced in the market on the basis of expectations about what they will be able to deliver once in the future. But expectations cannot be used to pay taxes. Better tax rules here are also essential to get more Norwegian investors to invest in the new Internet and e-commerce businesses. Secondly, the Left would stress that the public now needs to make full use of the procurement power plans to promote electronic commerce and interaction. This is also important in order for us to be able to spend as much of the community's money as possible on the core tasks of the public, such as school and health. There are no good reasons why billions should be wasted on heavy-duty invoice management and low-rational purchases. Many municipalities hesitate with this, perhaps because they are concerned about how to deal with local business. They shouldn't hesitate to do this any more, because the conversion comes anyway. The work on IT, e-commerce and the information society in the EU has regained momentum through Prodi’s initiative ‘eEurope – an information society for all’. If we compare the concrete points of the initiative with what is happening or planned in Norway, we will get out of it quite well. Norway is at the front of some points; the EU has come further on others. The key issue here, however, is that it must be clear to everyone that we in Norway want to bet at least as extensively as the EU is now proposing. We must avoid Norway getting a vague position in relation to the EU initiative because we are not in the Union. Therefore, it is now necessary to clarify and reinforce Norwegian efforts in this area. And that is why there is also a proposal that shows the way in that context in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e654	The new Internet economy now affects social development more than anything else, as the case-law rapporteur, Kristiansen, presented in a very good way. Who would have thought ten years ago that everyone would be available anywhere with a small cell phone in their pocket, or that we could sit by the PC and order almost what we wanted from goods and services over the Internet? Broadcasting, telephony and the media are now melting. This development affects all parts of society, and it happens quickly — yes, it's already here. The Labour Party Government will facilitate a policy that equips Norway to meet these challenges of the future. Electronic commerce represents an international challenge for Norway. The new economy is knowledge-driven and innovation-driven, and fewer and fewer of our local businesses can operate in a protected domestic market. We cannot be passive about this. On the other hand, we must have a sparkling offensive and forward-looking policy. The investment in IT and electronic commerce is very high in many countries, and exciting efforts are being made in a number of areas in the EU. The EU eEurope initiative is an offensive effort to bring Europe to the level of the US in the new information economy and also on the research front. It identifies ten key areas for the development of Europe’s information society, including: an accelerated development of electronic commerce, a heavy commitment to IT in school and education and a reinforcement of the regulatory framework conditions for electronic commerce. I see it as the most offensive IT document presented in the EU since the Bangemann report in 1994, but the document has been known for a long time. These are not just words and wishful thinking on the part of the European Union. The EU extraordinary Council meeting in Lisbon last week shows that work is now accelerating. During 2000, the remaining legal framework for electronic commerce shall be adopted, inter alia. as regards copyright and electronic money. Member States shall ensure that all schools have access to the Internet and multimedia-based educational materials by the end of 2001. The social dimension is also underlined. All shall be guaranteed opportunities to participate in the new information economy. We also need to get that kind of pressure from our country. Here I would like to refer to Minister for Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland's meeting in Brussels on Tuesday when he said: ‘We need to raise awareness of what is happening in Europe and to pursue a more conscious European policy. It is inter alia linked to several policy areas of cooperation, such as telecommunications, research and development, in line with the signals of the EU Lisbon Summit.» In addition, Sweden and the United Kingdom have agreed to cooperate bilaterally on just e-commerce, on entrepreneurship and to counter new class divisions in the knowledge economy. So education has to be an essential part of this. I would like to address this issue when I meet my Swedish colleague Rosengren on 12 April to check the possibilities for Norway to connect to this cooperation that is now taking place between Sweden and the United Kingdom. The cancellation message was submitted by the previous government last June. The message is a good piece of work, and we join the main lines, which the committee has also done in its position. The objectives of the Labour Party Government are clear, as is also stated in our Declaration of Accession: Norway should be ahead of the development of electronic commerce. We will build on Norway's competitive advantage and develop new businesses. Norway, as several have mentioned, is one of the world’s leaders in the use of the Internet and mobile telephony. We must also exploit this for industrial development in Norway. An area which this government will prioritise is international cooperation. The globalised economy causes an increasing number of enterprises to operate in a competitive international market. We have to look beyond the borders of the country. Norway participates and shall participate even more actively in the work in progress in the WTO and in EEA cooperation. It is important that small countries are guaranteed the same rights and conditions as the major countries in international trade. The government's vision is to create an IT and knowledge society for everyone. An important part of this vision is to provide a well-developed digital network infrastructure in all parts of the country. The working party has previously established that the whole country is to be guaranteed the possibility of connecting to a telecommunications network with sufficient capacity to make use of the new possibilities for electronic communications. We will consider how the development of broadband in Norway can be carried out. It is true, as also mentioned by Apelthun Seele, that an inter-ministerial working group in a short time will present a report with assessments of what is needed and how market offers are expected to develop. The Group will make recommendations to the Government on action for a bet to develop broadband networks and services. We should not delay this. Access to electronic commerce for most people is also about expanding the distribution network. We are already seeing new offers being developed in this area. However, I have noticed that the Committee attaches particular importance to the role of the Post in making e-commerce available in all parts of the country. A recent issue that has attracted attention is the obligation to charge small packages from abroad. Many people believe that this area may have unfortunate consequences for e-commerce, and I will therefore look into this particular matter. In the regulatory field, we must keep the same momentum as the EU has set itself as a target. We must avoid being hung over in this respect, and where we can, we must be in front of the EU in this area too, and that is possible. An area in which we must have an ambition to be ahead of the EU is the removal of legal and practical barriers to electronic communications and trade. The monitoring and follow-up work undertaken by the Government in this area will be continued. I'll try to make this project an example that many other countries can follow. I will also place great emphasis on dialogue with the business community about the information society and electronic commerce. The authorities may not do this on their own. The previous government established the Joint Electronic Commerce and Business Forum. This Joint Forum will continue with special attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important that business meets a tax policy that stimulates innovation and development. Good option schemes are important for the IT industry, and the Government will first put forward proposals for tax relief. The current domain name policy has also been an appeal point for many in the IT industry. Many have rightly felt that this has been too restrictive. I have noticed here the desire of the majority of the committee that liberalisation should go beyond the changes that have now been put to the hearing. If Norway is to be technologically at the forefront in the field of IT, we also need locomotives. Experience with Nokia in Finland and Ericsson in Sweden shows this. In this area, Telenor plays an important role in Norway. Telenor is now facing major challenges in a global and competitive market. To meet these challenges, new capital and new impulses are needed. Therefore, the Government has announced that we will propose that Telenor become a listed company. Knowledge and ideas will actually become our most important capital in the future. Therefore, education and research are so important to link to industrial policy. This is some of the reasons for the new structure of the Ministry of Industry. In this context, I have noticed that the Committee calls for further measures to improve access to IT-trained labour in the short and long term. Here we need to strengthen cooperation between research environments, the education sector and industry. You also have to be able to train some people directly while they're at work. Here I will also refer to the importance of IT in school, as the committee itself stresses in the setting. But here, on the basis of what former Minister of Research Lilletun has said, Stortinget has now provided for that upgrading. Norway is the society of opportunity. We are well advanced in a number of important areas. Internet use and mobile communications are just a few examples. I would like to underline the pace in this area. Finally, it was said by Apelthun Säle in the past that Norway is on the outskirts. I think it's okay to include in this debate that when, for example. In satellite communications, because of our geographical location, we're actually at the heart of the world, and that really means that some ingrained perceptions also about geographical location need to be changed in some and each.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e712	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e715	Our new IT minister was gripping something initially: who would have thought ten years ago that the mobile phone would be all-round? What is actually the famous thing is that it was a Northman, Willy Simonsen, who developed the precursor to the mobile phone, but he couldn't realize his ideas and knowledge in Norway. Think if it had been done! Today, we might have had a Norwegian Nokia, the largest company in the Nordic region, which in value represents the double of all listed companies at Oslo Børs. It's some of the dimensions of this. It underlines the importance of perhaps having to take a different and new approach to the new knowledge economy than to the traditional economy and industry. I'll do some examples of that. Opticom was mentioned by the case rapporteur earlier today. The owners and leaders have moved out of the country because they do not have the power to pay the property tax. This does not apply only to Opticom. There may be an indicator for a number of similar companies in Norway who have major problems because we do not follow up in the name of globalisation with framework conditions that have already been agreed upon by almost all the other countries involved in the new economy. And equally important: I know that our new IT minister is interested in Telenor, that we are going to have a new, unique business cluster on the Fornebu. Then we have to give these new foreign companies that want to move research units etc. to Norway, sufficiently good framework conditions. As far as option taxation is concerned, we have received a number of signals that the Workers' Party will return to the Stortinget in a suitable form, but the wealth tax is equally important. Other countries do not have taxes on wealth or are at a much higher level of wealth and at lower rates. So my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State actively work within the Government to also harmonise the wealth tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e725	It was positive that the representative Hedstrom also mentioned Telenor, because there are some of our companies that have been working systematically on development and research over the years, it is the old Telecom and what is now Telenor. They're actually making it possible to go and make a living outside, and they're an interesting actor for others to cooperate with. That was exactly the round we were going through here in Stortinget when we among other things. discussed IT-Fornebu, which I would like to eventually perhaps get the name Mobile-Fornebu. The new grips may be much greater – as you see it in the United States, which is otherwise seen as the country where only the market is located – that state and private are on the team, just to inspire foreign investors to come in. Norway is not a bad country to invest in for foreigners. And then it's not just about taxes, even if taxes are important, but it's also about some areas that are about our quality of life, about being able to use a lot of offers for parents, where we both have kindergartens and all those things. But, of course, we must also look at the tax systems. It has probably also been mentioned earlier by our party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, that we must also look at the tax on wealth here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e732	The previous government had an offensive and good grip on the topic of IT. Much has been done in a good and forward-looking way, and this responsibility lies with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Council of State. In the media it is recorded as something new that IT is to be added to the Ministry of Industry. After the experience I and the Committee have gained, IT and responsibility for this area have been in the Ministry of Industry for the past few years. I am aware that the administration of ownership and shares in Telenor is now going to switch from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but there must also be other things one here is thinking about. So my question to the Council of State is, what's new? What are the new areas, responsibilities and tasks of the Ministry of Industry in the IT sector compared to the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e737	It is true that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has had a coordinating responsibility for IT from the former government, and a good job has been done, and I also said in my post that the areas underpinned by the Storing Communication that are being discussed today will be continued. The biggest change is likely to be in the field of offensive international engagement, because Norway is not the only one here, but it is playing on its own and it has an offensive both in the EU area and in the WTO. Because that also means a lot to the IT bet. This is why the new department has also been set up to deal more with EEA and WTO legislation, which is, of course, part of the whole of ICT development when it comes to agreements on both intangible and financial services. In addition, this department will have a much larger part on the research side. It is crucial for Norway to be able to build clusters, not least of which many have been involved, in order to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises also become development enterprises. Because we have to have a much larger content in our products that goes on the knowledge-based. It's all part of the ICT-dominated area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e746	First, I would like to take advantage of the need to speak with the new Minister of Economic Affairs that Norway is in the heart of the world in many ways. But geographically, we are far from the big markets, and e-commerce is reducing just such a distance disadvantage, and that was also the point of my post. The Minister of Economic Affairs has been concerned about research and development in his former life, and I am therefore surprised that the Labour Party is out of a multi-stakeholder note where the majority just points to the UK government's tax incentives for companies that enter into long-term contracts with smaller enterprises for R & D work of which both parties benefit. Is there a dissatisfaction between the Minister of Industry and the Committee fraction, and will the Minister of Industry nevertheless take into account the sentiments of the majority of the population and facilitate the participation of small businesses, which may need the most, in R & D activities in this area, as the British Government has consistently suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e753	What I meant by the last comment in my main post is that this whole new industry is nullifying the significance of geography. That was the purpose. And it's making some of us have to transform their perceptions of distance. As far as R & D activities are concerned, Apelthun Seele is probably also aware that the Stortinget has taken a decision here, including in Roman numerals, on a lifting. At the same time, there is a sample, the Hervik committee, which has just given up its position, which we hope to provide for the treatment of, which goes a lot on how to get the nutrition research up. Most of our businesses are actually under ten employees, so you can't expect them to do this on their own. But still just talking about tax deductions and changes on that side, I fully agree with Karin Andersen in in part can become a siding, because it's part of that whole thing that we've been able to use our taxes and our fee level to increase our quality of life. Here's part of the areas that we need to include in a whole, and per. Today, fiscal policy is not part of the EEA Agreement either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e760	I think the new IT minister had a positive view of the follow-up in several important areas that are explicitly highlighted in the position of the Business Committee. But then she says that the goal of the Workers' Party is clear. And that's exactly what it's not. It is my concern that the fine words in the government statement must not be given the mark of being a honorary word. It says that ‘Norway shall be in the forefront of the use of electronic commerce’. I see that in an interview with Norway's largest newspaper, the IT Minister says: ‘Even small enterprises in district Norway shall be able to compete internationally.’ And she goes on to say, ‘Knowledge-based business shall be increased from 30 to 50 pst, so that Norway comes to European level.’ This is because it remains unclear when the Workers’ Party will not participate in the comments of the majority that Norway has a framework similar to that of foreign competitors in the field of ICT and e-commerce. Then my question is: is the Government's ambition now reduced with the Workers' Party's position in the Business Committee? And how are you going to get up to the percentages that both the government statement and the government council themselves advise, when you have a fraction in the nutrition committee from your own party that is so dubiously opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e775	The goal of the Labour Party is clear – and then it becomes very important what we do in concrete terms, that's what we're going to be measured at all. I have spent the last few days in Brussels having conversations with people both in the IT field and in the research area. We will also be asking for participation in the IT programme that is now coming up and standing in the EU, and the same thing on the offensive that is now being carried out in the research front. For all of this, there will be a greater degree of market change, including opportunities and framework conditions. So ask Kristiansen, how can we help the small businesses to participate? There's going to be a little bit of the same answer I gave to Apelthun's seal: it can't be that the Storting just sees that it's about taxes. It is clear that very many of the smallest enterprises also need competence — this is precisely that they need to get a greater level of knowledge about their products. To a large extent, Norway is currently competing in volume terms. There is some reason why I have said that it is absolutely necessary that we manage to get on an average of what other competing countries have in terms of knowledge content. And as for the framework conditions, we've made it clear that we're coming back very quickly on the option page.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e782	I thought it was a point of perspective that the new IT minister had on today's topic. I am also pleased that the IT minister has followed up the initiative of the previous government in relation to Brussels when it comes to research and IT, and the approach that had been put forward. I took a line now to perhaps save a three-minute post so that we can finish a little before, to make a suggestion – and ask for a comment from the minister on it: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate form with proposals for action for an information society for all, including the Norwegian follow-up to the EU’s eEurope initiative.’ The reason for the proposal is that this initiative has been well reported in the configuration. At the same time, one in Lisbon has subsequently taken the decisions that will take place, and despite close cooperation, it is clear that Norway has its own policies and policies on its own. Therefore, it is important that one has a self-reliant policy, while trying to integrate. The center part here is asking the government to come back to the Storting with a whole block around that dimension. We support the initiatives taken by the IT Minister, but at the same time the Stortinget wants to be involved in this process. I would therefore ask that the Council of State Grete Knudsen comment on the proposal and in what way the Government intends to follow up on what is the reality of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e794	The President shall record that, sir. Lilletun has taken up the proposal in a line, and not as a line. Can the President then also ask Lilletun if he, with this, was also on the list of speakers for three-minute posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e800	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e807	Then it's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e811	The government will follow up on the IT strategy put in place by the previous government, and also follow up on the commitment that the former government had in Brussels – even a little more active, possibly, but we will follow it up. With regard to the proposal itself, I feel that it is difficult to say something about how to deal with it, in addition to the fact that all the points that the Lisbon Summit concluded have been known for a long time. The EU document has also been known for a long time, which is probably some of the reasons why the entire committee has included it in its position. But when it comes to putting the offensive on the government's side, the committee has also asked for an IT statement to be made, so I would see it as natural to come back through such an opportunity, and I hope that it is possible to get it back to us now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e818	The cord shift is over. Can the President interpret the unrest that prevailed upon him? Lilletun's place so that he has now also considered drawing himself again to a three-minute post?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e823	The representative Lilletun will come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e830	I want to grasp some of what the Council of State was about. She said it's not just tax that counts. No, we all agree on that. However, if we are to be able to establish international companies in the high-tech areas of Norway and make it attractive to them, there are three main factors that must be present: firstly, that we have harmonised tax conditions. Here, property taxes and option taxes are important. Secondly, we in Norway are attractive as customers. We are two years ahead of the rest of Europe as advanced users of the Internet and communication technology. This makes us demanding customers. And third, there has to be an environment. When Telenor establishes itself on the Fornebu site, an environment will be created, and we will be able to develop a unique business cluster in those areas if the overall framework conditions are present. So today's discussion is not just about e-commerce. It is really about how Norwegian political authorities are going to deal with the technological revolution that is changing society as a whole. The Committee has pointed out that the changes take place largely outside the political space. This means that Norwegian authorities are increasingly able to influence the decisions governing the development of Norwegian society. This changes the rules of the economy, creates new conditions for industrial development and thus the basis of industrial policy. While it is worthwhile for the Storting to receive a communication that puts ICT on the agenda, it is necessary to see the whole of technological development to a far greater extent than in this Communication. E-commerce is just one of many applications resulting from the new technologies. This is the background for the Committee asking the Government to come back with a broader orientation. First of all, a review of the societal changes created by the new technology should be carried out. The most obvious thing is that it leads to the emergence of completely new industries. In 2002, the Internet industry in the United States will be larger than the care sector. In Norway, the Central Statistical Office reports that the IT industry is now trading more than the oil industry. These companies are managed by completely different managers. Ten to fifteen years ago, Fortune's list of the most important leaders in the United States was dominated by the car industry and the oil industry. Today, these are replaced by Bill Gates and other leaders of ICT companies. Norges Bank's dinners are still dominated by the leaders of the old industry, but in a few years it will not be Norwegian Hydro and Orkla that are Norway's main businesses, but the future Opticom and StepStone companies. In isolation, experience shows that the new economy creates greater differences in society. Those who succeed can achieve enormous returns. The large shortage of relevant competences makes owners willing to give very good conditions to get the best people. The traditional policy solution is to use fiscal policy to ensure a fairer distribution. But the traditional solutions don't work anymore. The reason is the globalisation of the economy, which means that resources go where the conditions are best. Traditional distribution policy instruments may prove to be a barrier to new value creation. An example is the property tax. I want to repeat that the case of Opticom is generally valid for knowledge companies. Opticom had a turnover of about 14 million last year. kr, but had at the turn of the year a stock exchange value in the billion class. The owners and managers of the company have had to move out of the country because, with their modest earnings, they have no opportunity to pay the property tax. Fair taxation in the new economy must find other forms. It's a must. As mentioned above, this development has occurred entirely outside the political space. It doesn't have to be a problem in itself. However, what is a problem is that political decisions are increasingly perceived as irrelevant by more and more people in our country. This means that authorities need to explore and analyse and discuss the political and societal implications of the IT revolution. Authorities must describe what can be done and propose what they want to do. The best successful countries in the new economy will be the best ones to answer these questions. It should be a main theme of the statement to be made by the Government to the Grand Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e853	In the Workers' Party, we are concerned that Norway should be a leading country in the use of information and knowledge technologies. This is the broad political consensus on it. Electronic commerce is an area in which we will experience a great and tearful development in the future. This brings with it major challenges that we need to address and exploit for our common good. As with all innovations, we see both the disadvantages and the benefits of the rapid development that is now taking place. The Prime Minister said in his declaration of accession that Norway is the society of opportunities, and at my discretion, electronic commerce and business operations open up new opportunities. Firstly, the Labour Party wants new technology to benefit all citizens. Enterprises and the population in all parts of the country need access to broadband and the new communication channels. There are new exciting opportunities for the districts that need to be actively exploited in rural policy. Public and private forces need to be mobilised in order to realise them together. Secondly, information technology provides new opportunities for the development of the district industry. It reduces the importance of distances, eliminates the importance of the geographical location of suppliers and changes the constraints in time. Electronic commerce means that goods and services previously only offered locally or nationally can now be traded in a global market. Studies show that an ever-increasing number of northern runners – to keep me at home – buy goods and services over the PC network from suppliers who are all just a keypress away, no matter where they actually keep the house. Thirdly, low costs of setting up and operating electronic commerce can facilitate Norwegian SMEs to market their products and compete on both local and global markets. We also find examples of smaller women's businesses both at home and elsewhere in the world, which through the use of the Internet have access to investors and markets they had not previously had. In order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the new technologies, regional colleges and local businesses need to be able to become power centres for research and development. Very large parts of the new exports made through electronic commerce are also located in District Norway. Therefore, we need to look ahead and facilitate the situation in order to exploit the possibilities. That's good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e874	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e877	I don't think I need 3 minutes, I just want to clarify in relation to proposal No. 1, which I have seen on behalf of the Christian People's Party Center Party and the Left. After the state councillor Grete Knudsen in his reply to me clarified how she would report back to Stortinget, I am prepared to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal. I then assume that the Council of State will come back to it both with the follow-up to the EU’s eEurope initiative and the second part of the proposal, how the Norwegian society will become an information society for all – that is, all elements of this proposal will also be part of the distribution with which the Council of State comes to the Council of the European Union. On that basis, I propose a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e884	The President has noticed that, and it will be taken into account when we come to voting. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2628]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e894	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e1016	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-30.ana.ud2244e1144	During the debate, Mr Lilletun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. At the request of the proposer, the proposal is transformed into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to the Stortinget in an appropriate form with proposals for action for an information society for all, including Norwegian follow-up to the EU eEurope initiative.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
