ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e38	Honourable co-representatives! Grandfather Jan Johnsen is dead – only 58 years old. He drowned on 8 April during the visit of the Committee on Energy and the Environment to Costa Rica. What was supposed to be a refreshing break in a tight work and travel programme for the Committee ended up in a tragedy. It's hit us all. The greatest of all is the loss of his immediate family, who saw too early the loss of a son, a spouse, and a dear family father. But Jan meant a lot to many others too, inside and outside the politics. He had his own ability to get in touch and to show that he cared about others. Jan Johnsen was born in Stavanger in 1941. He trained in the hotel industry and became a prominent figure in the hotel and travel industries. He was very committed to providing the industry with time learning opportunities, both as a lecturer and an inspector at the Hotel School and in the work of establishing Norwegian Hotel School. He also strongly engaged in travel industry organisations and had central trust in the NHO in Rogaland. Since 1983, Jan Johnsen has been elected to Stavanger City Council, and in 1997 he became a prime minister and a member of the Energy and Environment Committee. He was all shot with characteristic energy. He was passionate about what he did for his brands – and they were many: Hospital issues, the committee's field of action, the interests of the home state and the well-being of the community – everything he found time and space for. He stood up and was present both for things and for people. His period in the Storting was not long, only two and a half years, but during this time he had become a good colleague and friend. He never let political disagreement get in the way of friendship. Jan took his job as the Ombudsman very seriously. With great glow he threw himself into the debates in the Great Britain. Typically, in the period since 1997, no right-wing representative has spoken in Stortinget as often as Jan Johnsen. Nor was there any doubt as to what Jan Johnsen meant. He always presented his views in plain text and with the full weight of his conviction. All the while, he was a hot spokesman for his hometown and his hometown. But at the same time the smile was never far away. By nature, Jan was a true mood and joyist. He'll be missed in Stortinget. With Jan Johnsen, a voice of fellow human beings with strong social involvement and high level of activity has gone away. We are many who admired Jan for his expedient commitment and his concern for the people he met on his way. On behalf of all of us, I would like to express my gratitude for a good colleague and respect for his long and solid efforts in society and politics. I'm at peace with Jan Johnsen's memory. The stuttering representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e66	A number of permit applications are available: from the Appointed Grand Delegation to Japan, signed by the Head of the Delegation, President of the Grand Duchy of Kirsti Kolle Grondahl. The application concerns the period from 9 May to 11 May to 11 May to the President of the Grand Duchy of Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and the representatives of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Trond Helleland, Anne Enger Lahnstein, Harald T. Nesvik and Ola Røtvej of the Workers' Party Group on the welfare permit for representatives of Anders Hornslien from 4 May to 11 May to 11 May from the representative of Ingvalld Gotal on leave on days 9 and 10 May to take part in a meeting of the Defence Committee of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Paris from the representatives Sverre Myrli and Are Næsss on leave from 9 May to 11 May to take part in a Wilton Park conference in Kranj, Slovenia On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For East-Agder County: Alf-Eivind LjøstadFor Akershus County: Rikke Lind and Tron Erik HovindFor Buskerud County: Gerd Johnsen and Hallgrim BergFor Hordaland County: Kurt-Arne LangelandFor Møre and Romesdal County: Gerd FlatsetFor Oslo: Kai EkangerFor Telemark County: Gunn Marit HelgesenFor South-Tronde County: No Balstad3. Gerd Johnsen and Inga Balstad are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and the representative Ola Røtvej
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e170	Kai Ekanger is present and will take the seat. The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e175	On behalf of Terje Knudsen and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for the sale of the state's holdings in AS Olivin. In addition, I would like to put forward proposals on behalf of John I. Alvheim, Harald T. Nesvik and myself on a social security funding scheme for patients suffering from rapidly progressing or serious periodontitis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e182	The representative Odd Einar Dørum will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e185	On behalf of May Britt Vihovde and myself, I would like to propose immediate measures for the construction of cheap housing for young people in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e190	These proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e200	"Better burden you ask in the ground than mannvit much" we are told in Håvalål. All societies, all cultures, at all times, have built on knowledge. Knowledge acquired through generations has been essential for controlling the environment, crucial for the existence of society and individuals. It's said that we're on our way into the knowledge society – and that's right. But the new thing is not that knowledge is necessary for our economy. The new thing is not that knowledge is important for the lives of individuals. The new thing is that in the new knowledge society, knowledge is increasingly somewhat constant. What is relevant knowledge is changing more and more rapidly. The requirement is that we constantly have to acquire new knowledge, new knowledge. Much of what we learned and could have learned ten years ago is no longer interesting. And in ten years' time, we must have knowledge in areas that we have not heard of today. Rapid changes make knowledge increasingly critical: New scientific discoveries challenge us and help us. Technological innovation makes it impossible. Genetic and medical research reveals the innermost secrets of life. Global money movements and Internet commerce change our economy fundamentally. However, in the future of change, something is certain – our fundamental values, and most importantly: everyone should have the right to participate in the new society, everyone should have the opportunity to realise their potential and develop their knowledge. The overall objective of equal rights to education shall be our guiding principle. That's at the heart of our welfare community. A fair education policy is the key to a fair society. Education shall help us to further develop the welfare state. Better skilled labour gives us more well-being. Knowledge of better organisation gives us more of the money we use. New treatment methods, research and education enable us to help more people. But education must also provide the knowledge we need to solve important societal problems. New technology can give us cleaner energy and less pollution. Knowledge of climate change can help us make the right choices. Knowledge transfer and education can lift the poorest countries out of poverty. Education should also provide us with skilled labour for industries in growth. Marine biologists and computer engineers are involved in industries with rich development potential. New technology gives us new jobs. The relationship between research and industrial development is growing. Education should also help us to function together as a society. A common school teaches us to have respect for each other, to work together. Norwegian training allows new Nordics to participate in democracy and society. Knowledge of social conditions and living conditions enables us to give more people a safe growth. And most importantly, education should give us the opportunity to develop as human beings – to make use of ourselves. Good basic education is the entrance to full participation in potential society. Lifelong learning provides the basis for a lifelong life in productive activity. Education provides room for personal growth and development – to trigger and develop the creative and creative abilities that exist in each of us. We have come a long way in creating an educational society in Norway. Visions and political courage have given us great progress. But we're not going to settle down for what we've achieved. New developments face new requirements: Globalisation and internationalisation give us new challenges. Knowledge and education are increasingly being internationalised. An increasing number of Norwegian students are taking higher education abroad. We also need to get more foreign students to Norway. Norwegian educational institutions will have stronger competition from abroad. Our educational institutions must be competitive and have a thoughtful strategy to meet a more international world. Rapid technological developments also make new demands on us. We need more education in information and communication technologies. We need broad user skills in ICT also in other disciplines. We need to be able to use ICT as a tool in education itself. We also need other technological skills, where the search is too small today. The pressure of centralisation also challenges our education system. The regional perspective must be at the heart of education policy. Universities provide young people with training close to their home and give them competence in the community environment. Decentralised education can meet local needs for important labour. The changing demand for labour and the need for lifelong learning also make new demands on the education sector. Lowering youth coal is to be combined with increased education in subjects such as health and technology. The institutions have to prepare for the possibility that the number of students could vary both up and down. Educational institutions need to adapt the study offer even more to both organisation and content to suit adult workers. All these changes require us to constantly renew and develop our education. Education levels in Norway are very high and increasing, especially for younger age groups. The emphasis on education in the last 20 years is unparalleled in history. We have behind us for a decade when the Workers' Party brought forward new major reforms throughout the education system. We use a larger share of GDP for educational purposes than most other countries. More than ever now have secondary or higher education. Basic education is the very core wall, the foundation of lifelong learning. Throughout the 1990s, a great deal of effort has been put into ensuring a good public common school. The use of resources in Norwegian primary schools has increased considerably since 1980. The number of pupils has been reduced by 110 000 between 1980 and 1995, while the number of teachers has increased. The bet per bet. Students have increased by 40 pst. during the period. Compared to other OECD countries, Norway is high in resource use per capita. Students in primary school, even when we adjust for the cost of a scattered residence. At the same time, however, according to the OECD, Norway is among those with the lowest education time for young people. Teachers’ educational obligations are lower in Norway than in most other countries, only Sweden and Hungary have lower reading obligations in primary schools than Norway. Through Reform 97, we would give all children an expanded and better starter training. The entry of six-year-olds into school has resulted in a strong upgrading of school buildings. At the same time, the school leisure system, SFO, has been heavily developed. Nearly half of the students in the 1-4th grade are in the school leisure system. The reform has also been a family reform that has eased the pressure on kindergartens. Reform 94 has created a secondary education that can meet the needs of the future. When the reform came, there was no lack of gloomy predictions, especially from the right parties. Six years later we see that never have so many 16-19-year-olds taken secondary education. Almost the whole year coal is currently part of secondary education. The reform has ensured a whole generation of better education opportunities. We have improved throughput, especially in vocational training. The number of re-elections has been greatly reduced. Less people stop the training. Now we're also starting to work on getting free textbooks. The first steps are taken. An OECD expert group has produced a separate report on Norway. They say, among other things: reform 94 has made the transition from education to work more effective. They consider the reform to be an example for other countries in terms of consensus and interaction between different actors in the education system and in the labour market. The reform was successful. A majority of teachers and students believe that the new curricula have contributed to good learning. The professional level appears to be at least the same level as before the reform. Several are given the opportunity to move on to higher education. During the 1990s, the Workers' Party gave its strength to increase the number of places of study. The fact that more people received education was an important effort for full employment. The number of students increased from about 130 000 in 1990 to about 175 000 today. From 1994 to 1999, the number of qualified applicants who are not offered a place of study at the offers they have applied for has been reduced from 25 000 to about 2000. A growing number of students are offered a place of study according to their primary wish. At the same time, Norway has a study funding aimed at eliminating inequalities, promoting gender equality and helping to capture rapidly changes in demand for labour and education. Health, technology and teacher training capacities are dimensioned according to the needs of the labour market. In recent years there has been a growth in educational capacity. However, even with some very large capacity increases in these courses, there is still a shortage of qualified personnel. And some education, such as an engineer and a preschool teacher, has problems getting enough qualified applicants. Some of our higher education courses are relatively long compared to other countries. In particular, this applies to the humanities and social sciences at the main subject level. Many students spend longer than foreseen. It's expensive both for individuals and for society. The major competence reform was addressed by the Stortinget in January 1999. These measures include, inter alia: better opportunities for adults to enter the education system, including, inter alia: the right to education leave and the organisation of study funding. The right-wing parties have been somewhat sceptical about the reform. The same has been true of employers, in particular with regard to leave options and who is liable to pay. For me, it's a paradox that the forces that speak the most about the individual's freedom of choice in other contexts are those who are at least willing to let people take responsibility for what continuing education they are going to take. Our goal is to develop offers based on the individual’s real competence and to provide flexible offers adapted to the adult’s life situation. This means, among other things: the ability to combine work and education. The establishment of a national system for the documentation and valuation of the real competences of adults is being pursued, with legitimacy both in the workplace and in the education system. An important challenge will be the development of good documentation systems. The Berg Committee has assessed training that does not fall under the training laws. The investigation is now being consulted. In the work on a national initiative for continuing education and training, the Workers' Party will place great emphasis on close cooperation with the social partners. They're the ones who know where the needs are. They are the ones that must be the key to the governance of the competence reform. In Norway, we have achieved great things in education. But if we look beyond our own borders, the picture is different. ‘The majority in Norway live in well-being and security — it does not do so by the majority in the world. Today, half the earth’s population lives in poverty. It is a shame," said the Prime Minister in the Government's Declaration of Accession. Few places are the distinctions as brutal as access to education. UN figures show that more than 110 million children, the majority of them girls, and countless adults do not complete or have access to any basic education at least 880 million adults, two-thirds of whom are women, are illiterate more than one third of the world's adults, have no access to printed knowledge, new skills or access to the technology that could improve their quality of life and help them shape and adapt to social and cultural changes, and changes in the environment and nature Therefore, the Workers' Party will focus on international cooperation and assistance in education. Education is an important key to change and development, probably the most important. The Ministry of Church, Education and Research has a lot of experience from reform implementations and, in cooperation with Norwegian aid authorities, will contribute to increased quality in Norwegian education assistance. This year, we have entered into close cooperation with the Student Organisation in Norway, the teacher organisations and NORAD to draw attention to Operation Dagsverk to put the North-South issue more strongly on the agenda of Norwegian education. The new government will speed up the work of renewing and upgrading education. It's not time to rest on old laurels and successful reforms. Our demands for future education, our choices for the course into a new era are clear. We're going to go to a better school - a FRISKSchool. We want to remove the disease signs in some parts of the schoolwork – we want a FRISKSchool. We want a bold attitude towards the future – we want a FRISK school. The development of the future shall be based on the following main objectives: flexibility fairness intensity creativity quality We're going to create a FRISK profile on the education system. I can't promise that we're going to do it all at once, but we're going to get on with it, as we've built the education system year after year, rock on rock. We're going to have a flexible education. We have to have the ability to see what's coming, and capture what can improve education. The ideals and broad spaces of action of the curricula must be able to be put into practice. Especially in high school, it is necessary to think differently. Developing skills must enable teachers to carry out their tasks. Training must be flexible, so that all students are given an opportunity to adapt to their abilities and assumptions. Some suggest that the single school for which the Workers' Party has fought is based on ensuring equal opportunities for all students through equal training. That's wrong. On the contrary, one of our most important principles is to provide pupils with customized training. If all students are to receive equivalent education, they must meet differently. Only in this way can everyone have the opportunity for learning and personal development. Equal opportunities and equivalence between different people do not require non-discrimination but discrimination. Some people need more help than others. Some people need a different kind of help than others. Everyone has different needs. One of my most important messages to all the skilled teachers in Norwegian schools is that we need to be even more good at using the opportunities that lie there to facilitate training for the individual. Schools need to be more flexible. When we open up the education system to new groups, we also need to offer greater diversity. People are going in and out of education their whole lives, not just as young students and students. For the Workers' Party, it is important that different training venues are used. Among other things, the competence development programme shall stimulate more training at the workplace and in work situations. There are major demands for rapid conversion, flexibility and reinvigoration. One of the objectives of the competence development programme is to enable private and public enterprises to identify, express and meet their skills needs, so that we can work together between the labour market and those responsible for the provision of training. It must be the educational institutions that adapt to people's needs, not the other way around. We want a fair education. Everyone shall be guaranteed an equal right to education. There shall be no social background, gender, ethnicity or financial capacity to determine whether education is available, the ability to participate in the knowledge society. The Workers' Party will fight against an educational system that is commercialised and shared. In particular, I'm concerned about a development where we're getting more and more private primary schools. Sometimes it's said when we're against private schools, that we're against diversity, that our unit school is a uniform school. Nothing could be more wrong, for what is equalization? Enlightenment is when we get one school for Christian children, one school for Muslim children, one school for Jewish children, one school for humane children, one school for Buddhist children, one school for rich children, one school for poor children. It's equalization. It's sort. It's when the kids go together in the same school, that we get diversity. I want to introduce a new term instead of the single school. I'll call it the 'common school' – the common school where the director's daughter goes with the carpenter's son, where Muslims go with Christians, where the theoretical good goes with them not quite so good. It's perhaps the most important pillar in our society, that we go to the same school, have the same teachers, read the same books, have gymnastics, travel on excursions together, learn to live together, respect each other, learn to cooperate. The government is willing to take the fight for that community, for the high school. A common school for everyone requires good social conditions at school. We will continue our efforts against bullying, gang crime and social insecurity in school. Justice is also about giving those who never had the opportunity to take education a new chance. We are now presenting a legislative proposal with an individual right for adults to primary and secondary education. We're taking a new step towards the vision of everyone's right to education. We want a fair education. Justice is also equality between women and men. The reform of skills provides a new opportunity for women who never received education. There is a majority of women in higher education today, but still only one third of the doctoral students are women. Norway also has one of the most gender-based labour markets in the western world. So if we look at what education you choose, we see why. We want to work to balance the gender distribution of the different studies. Our goal is to promote equal social recruitment to higher education. A good primary school and the right to secondary education contribute to this. Study funding is also important in order to receive fair education. The Aamodt Committee has looked at the training support schemes under the State Lending Fund for Education. The government will follow up on the work of the Aamodt Committee and take a closer look at the measures to be proposed. Studies show that higher education in Norway is not a urban phenomenon. We have succeeded in making higher education a real alternative to youth, regardless of geographical affiliation. That commitment shall continue. Decentralised provision and provision of distance learning are important in order to provide a flexible provision of higher education. A strong expansion of the study provision in the districts has ensured a steady recruitment to higher education throughout the country. Justice includes solidarity, both nationally and globally. Therefore, the Ministry will engage in assistance cooperation to help develop good education systems in countries that are still struggling to provide basic training to all children. We have therefore concluded an agreement with NORAD on cooperation. We want an intensive education. In all activities, the demand for more intensity and efficiency is met. The education sector also needs to make better use of resources, become more efficient without compromising quality. A greater intensity of education can both release resources, increase throughflow and make education more instructive and rewarding for students and students. An important objective is to increase the rate of progress in higher education. Today, the pressure is to get progress in the studies of the individual student. Bad progress is being made by the student in the form of sanctions from the Loan Fund and from the educational institution. The Workers' Party would also like the educational institution to take greater responsibility for the progress of the students. It needs to be more important, also financially, that the students you get get get get through the study, and come out again with the knowledge and skills that are expected and needed. The study progress is too poor. Much is due to poor follow-up. It's e.g. a paradox that universities have closer follow-up of students the longer they have studied. An increased flow requires full-time students. That's my starting point when we're looking at the Aamodt selection setting. The aim is to have a survey report on study funding completed in spring 2001, where the studies from the Aamodt Committee, the Mjøs Committee and the Berg Committee are seen in the context. There are clear links between the sample sizes and the objective is a comprehensive look at Norwegian education after 2000. If you are to have an intensive and effective education system, you must also have good planning tools. If higher education is to fulfil its tasks, it requires, inter alia: a good governance with dimensioning of higher education. We need good analyses and projections of which groups we need to educate more of in the future. Intensity is also about the learning environment. A school in which the students themselves participate must take responsibility for their own learning, plan and contribute to their own evaluation, create a more interesting, more engaging school. We want a creative education. We want a diverse school. If the school is to evolve, we're dependent on someone going ahead and showing the way. Creativity and creativity are important at all levels and in all areas. Being a creator is about being able to meet the unpredictable. One of the major challenges of education is to develop creative and creative skills as a basis for personal and societal innovation. Greater diversity requires greater freedom, more local adaptation to local conditions, social factors and the needs of the labour market. It means more responsibility for each municipality, yes for each school. At the same time, we have to make sure to gather the experiences that give us all the different trials. The new learning centre will be at the heart of that work. The Centre, in close cooperation with municipalities and county councils, shall contribute to the quality development of school and training and stimulate active development. The organisation shall be user-friendly and provide simplifications both for the municipal sector, the schools and the ministry. We want a education where quality is an overall goal. We've done a lot to get the most into education. Now the time has come to put the same amount of emphasis on quality. The quality requirement shall govern our education policy. We spend $15 billion on higher education. We have to ask, are we going to get enough for all the money we spend? We have 21,000 employees in the sector. We have to ask, do we get the maximum out of all the knowledge they have? Is the research good enough? Are we recruiting the best teachers? Are students and students encouraged to do their very best, to extend their achievements to the utmost, to break their own boundaries? It's a demanding job to create quality throughout our education system, but we need quality. Our students and students are entitled to quality. Employers waiting for competent people are entitled to quality. The community that finances the training is subject to quality requirements. A high quality of public education is also the best way to ensure a level playing field in education. A good public school is the safest bob work against privatisation. We need to get real tools to investigate the quality at all levels. We need to acquire and get knowledge of the qualitative aspects of education. Everyone here has to think about being evaluated. Quality development shall contribute to the further development and strengthening of all training. Training quality needs to be assessed against a broad background of values and objectives. Traditional tests and tests can give us some indicators, but are not enough to measure the quality of learning in a broad sense. Nevertheless, we need to work towards finding indicators that give us a common reference framework when discussing quality, both locally and nationally. We must build on the experience of others internationally and adapt them to Norwegian circumstances. At the same time, we need to enable students, parents and teachers to participate in the work on the assessment and quality development of school and education. Therefore, school and enterprise-based assessment should remain at the heart of the national strategy for quality development. Assessment must be of benefit both at national and local level so that training can be optimised for individual students and students. In higher education institutions are responsible for quality assurance for both education and research. It is a management responsibility that needs to be given much greater focus in the future. The Norwegian Network Council has as one of its main tasks the provision of quality assurance assistance to higher education institutions. The quality of the teacher is the key to quality in the school. Therefore, it is important that we continue to work to strengthen the recruitment of the teaching profession. The size has just addressed a recruitment message with a number of measures to get more and more skilled teachers. The government will actively pursue the objective of better teacher recruitment. We also want to look at the whole learning and working environment. It has been debated over several years. I think it must be time to conclude here and now. It is not natural that the distinction should be there. In a future where people go into and out of an educational situation, they can't go into and out of a protected work environment. My goal is to get to port with that work. We need to find a solution to give students and students rights in their daily activities that others take for granted. Last week I visited the Svensendamm school in Drammen. There the teachers and the students had organized the school day in a different way. The students themselves had to plan their work over the week. It was a FRISK school in practice. More flexible organisation gave teachers more time with the students. More adapted education gave a fairer school for each student. Greater responsibility for own learning gave more intensive education. The school used its creativity to go new ways and develop education. And most importantly, the result was better quality of education, both teachers and students had a better school. The government's goal is an education that makes us work together as a society. We want a public common school that is socially inclusive. We want an equivalent training offer with a diversity that meets everyone's needs. We will further develop public education so that quality and trust are maintained. We go into a time when we have a ten-year primary school, a secondary education for everyone and a record high number of students in higher education. That's a good basis to build on. That's a good basis to go into a new time on. But we are not going to settle down on the progress of the last century. We have a new century to shape. We have our own future to create. Our goal is not achieved until all children and young people are secure education and a good schooling – in our own country, but also elsewhere in the world. The right to education is the right to a future. The possibility of knowledge is the possibility of a rich life, perhaps the possibility of life itself. And better should we not carry in the ground than to give it the opportunity to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e455	The presentation is proposed for consideration at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e465	Governments have high but realistic ambitions for district and regional policy. The goal of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern is established. But trying to lock the population of the individual municipality stands for me as unrealistic and directly artificial. With the age structure that many municipalities have, it would require that the move flow be turned upside down. We can't decide where to live. Nor is it a goal that district youth should not leave the home. On the contrary, it's positive that people move on. However, an important challenge is to facilitate re-entry and re-entry. There is a gender and age imbalance in many municipalities. In particular, young people and women must be given the opportunity to use their competences in the districts as well. The districts need to become more attractive as housing and workplaces for both men and women. The government is proposing to pursue an active district policy. Increased emphasis on innovation in business at both national and regional levels will create the prerequisites for a new giver. This requires, among other things: the renewal of the public sector also in the districts. Both public and private forces must be mobilized. New and exciting opportunities exist in the development of new technologies and communication channels. The technology of today is something our political ancestors could only dream of. Let's apply these possibilities. In this presentation, I will present the Government's regional policy ambitions within the framework of the following three key themes: Developing robust regions — where interaction between cities and countries is central. Developing a competitive business – focusing on innovation and skills development. Renewal of the public sector — where a comprehensive and coordinated public policy will be at the forefront. The next major communication on regional and regional policy, to be presented next spring, provides for a broader and more thorough review of the regional and regional policy areas of the Government. There are few problems with living conditions in some smaller western municipalities and in the high-level areas of cities. Similarly, we find the worst living conditions in some municipalities in Finnmark as well as in the center core of larger cities. It is, in other words, the district of the winner of Oslo west or, for example, the city of Oslo west. Luster in Sogn and Fjordane, which have the best living conditions in this country, while some Finnish municipalities and towns like Sagene-Torshov in Oslo have the worst living conditions. Therefore, it is misleading to paint a black and white picture in terms of regional and regional policy challenges in Norway. We still have a job to do with ensuring equal living conditions and equal opportunities, no matter where they choose to live. The country in which we live is diverse and varied, and depending on where we live, the challenges appear different. Transport challenges are different in the outlying municipalities than in the major cities. In large cities, a well-developed public transport network is possible because of the population base and is necessary for environmental and transport problems. In outlying municipalities with scattered settlements and large distances, the challenges will be to provide more access to transport infrastructure to meet the needs of accessibility, safety and predictability for the population and business. Better road standards are particularly important in order to enhance the competitiveness of business in these areas. The government will come back to this in the main message on the national transport plan. Deportation has marked many outlying municipalities throughout the last century, despite political consensus on an active policy to counteract it. The emigration devastates the many small communities for people. This means that they lose labour, the customer base of shops and post offices and students in schools. The close networks are diluted. District municipalities are much more economically vulnerable than cities. Many of those who move, move to the cities. There is often a greater need for space, a greater lack of housing, higher living costs, but also more education, job and leisure services. The cities have some cultural offerings that we can't find in Building Norway. In addition, many people experience that one can live freer in the city than in a small community of a few hundred or a thousand people. It is not a coincidence that, for example: many gay people apply to cities. It might be worth thinking about why it's like this. I don't think economic incentives would hold them back in small district municipalities. At the same time, freedom and individualism, with which the big city in particular attracts, can be dangerous. Drug abuse, crime, loneliness and poverty are found more often in urban Norway than in district Norway. It's this kind of social problem that creates the big inequalities especially in Oslo. As Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, I feel a responsibility with the Government to help solve these major issues. The interdependence between cities and countries has increased. The districts and cities have different functions for both business and population. Districts have proximity to important natural resources, which is the basis for a significant part of the value creation taking place in the country. At the same time, they represent a regional diversity of lifestyles and cultural expression of great value to the country as a whole. Cities for their part serve as important hubs for enterprises that rely on physical proximity to other enterprises, customers and subcontractors. They are also social and professional learning venues for young people with a high level of education. District-Norway policy cannot be implemented without taking into account what is happening in urban areas. The government therefore wants to see regional policy efforts closely linked to both active urban policies and other regional policies. Regional and regional policies of the future should become much more policy for the development of regions than at present. The government will give high priority to developing robust service, housing and labour market regions in all parts of the country. This will be positive both for the districts and for the cities. Strong regions will act as engines in the development of District Norway and will counteract unilateral migration to the largest urban regions from the districts. This is a trend we see across Europe, which has been going on for nearly ten years in most EU countries. Strong regions are counter-centralisation. Strong regions mean more local self-government. Strong regions are an effective tool in rural policy. The objective of this objective is to contribute to the creation of coherent and more varied labour market, housing and service regions. Transport and communications, including information and communication technologies, should contribute to the real accessibility of workplaces, education, housing, services and well-being for residents who also live outside these centres. Here is a lot of good work going on that we want to continue, and that we want to strengthen. We need to make more effective use of our instruments. The resources need to be adapted to the situation in each country to a much greater extent. This is why, among other things: launch of a pilot project in Hedmark and Uppland where the states themselves decide more on how to use the resources. In the project called the 'Morgen Land', the core is a broad focus on the conversion and development of the two counties. It takes place in close interaction with business, organisational life and public institutions. The aim is to reduce the level of detail management and give the state, no matter how it might be in the future, increased freedom of action and thus increased opportunities. Projects shall also assess how the division of tasks can be organised in order to best address regional challenges across the sectors. Many municipalities continue to experience some severe decline in the population. The Igland government took the initiative to set its own course for those municipalities with the greatest decline in the population. Many exciting projects are under way in the fields of culture, housing, leisure, school, business and youth. The results show that the overall thinking represented by the outlining is a correct and important step in the area of regional policy. There will still be a need for special efforts towards this type of municipality. How to set up the effort is a question we will come back to in a big message next spring. One key element will, of course, be the relationship with fisheries and agricultural policy, as these industries have a major impact on some of these municipalities. Changing gender roles and changing economic conditions in primary industries mean that many more women choose to move to more central strata. We will therefore consider developing a specific edge strategy aimed specifically at women. This should include, inter alia: include rural development funds, start-up aid, start-up aid, decentralised education and greater opportunities for both initial and continuing training through distance learning. The North Norway bet will still have a high priority. The Government has decided to set up its own State Secretary's Committee on Regional Policy for this part of the country. This selection will include, for example: pay particular attention to the development of industry in North Norway. Agricultural actors in cooperation with a number of institutions in the region will prepare a proposal for the establishment and organisation of a centre of excellence for agriculture. Barents work on many different projects within a number of areas. Norway is also engaged in North-West Russia through both SIVA and INTERREG. North-West Russia has considerable resources, especially in the field of oil and gas, which, in the future, it is natural to transport the sea route to the European markets. North Norway has competence in transport and logistics from which North-West Russia will benefit. For the Church and other ports, this will provide opportunities for increased activity. In other areas too, there are good opportunities to develop business cooperation between our northernmost countries and North-West Russia. Continued Norwegian involvement in a positive development in North-West Russia is therefore important from a regional policy perspective. In regional policy, cooperation between cross-border regions has gained increased importance and attention, both in terms of industrial development and at inter-national level. The EU is driving such cooperation by both financing and taking initiatives for regionally anchored cooperation programmes. Border regional cooperation is also important for security policy. I am pleased that international cooperation with foreign municipalities and regions is becoming an integral part of the development work in Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities. Norway has been invited to participate in the new EU cross-border cooperation programme INTERREG III. The government is concerned that business is actively involved in border regional cooperation in order to maximise the impact of this work. There is no doubt that the INTERREG initiative offers many fringes in both Sweden and Norway unique opportunities to participate in exciting projects to which they would not otherwise have had occasion. Business must continuously work to increase the level of knowledge in order to maintain and develop competitiveness. A competitive business is essential for rural settlements and to ensure the basis of our welfare society. The oil industry, for example, has was of great importance to the settlement of the West. The same can be said of the importance of fisheries to coastal Norway. To a far greater extent than in the past, those parts of the country that have a forward-looking and dynamic business life will also appear to be attractive places to live. The need for entrepreneurs who can create new businesses is great. However, I am convinced that a significant part of the innovation in Norwegian business will be based on existing business, but probably in technology and product areas we hardly know per. today. A key role for the public is to contribute to innovation. With the rapid and rapid changes we are seeing today, both technologically and in terms of knowledge and in the field of foreign competition, a stronger and more holistic approach is needed to achieve more regional innovation. Much is uncertain, but knowledge and competence will in any case be our main production factor in the future. That is why education and research are so crucial. We must work offensively to ensure that the districts are not lagging behind in the development of new knowledge-based enterprises. The government will also consider developing more decentralised higher education colleges in all parts of the country. Many, perhaps especially women, will benefit from these offers. It is also necessary to facilitate continuing training for those already in the labour market. In order to facilitate more knowledge-intensive industries in the districts, we will continue to invest in business environments. From this year, SND is also required to perform 30 pst. of the regional development grant shall be used for activities that enhance the competence of the enterprises. In order to enable enterprises to build up the necessary skills, it is an objective that all expenditure on training and training for employees should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. The amendment of the regulation on tax exemptions for free training in employment was recently adopted and includes expenditure on continuing education and training. Recruitment of skilled labour can also be ensured by enterprises themselves by cooperating through training offices and training rings, and thus also by obtaining more apprenticeship contracts. When it comes to it, innovation and establishment are primarily dependent on cultural and social conditions and the knowledge and competence of individuals. Gender also plays a role here. Unfortunately, women may not be as likely to become their own employers as men to become pre-school teachers. Therefore, awareness-raising and motivational work will be central to the organisation of more entrepreneurs, especially women entrepreneurs. We want to increase efforts in this area by stepping up the education system and stimulating increased cooperation between educational institutions and the business community. We also want to improve the adaptation and differentiation of the instruments in relation to the needs of both young people and women and to different life stages. Traditional resource-based district industries will remain very important. The aim should be to maximise the processing of raw materials in the districts. Norway has the right to exploit some of the world’s most productive fjords, coasts and seas. This provides unique opportunities for future value creation based on marine production resources. Throughout the century we are behind, fishing industries have shown the ability to adapt, not least to innovation. Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industries have experience and competence to generate increased value creation. These advantages form the basis for sustainable growth. It is therefore a political will to put an extra effort into the marine sector. We are in favour of establishing a new state-private investment company and a separate technology fund, such as shall contribute to measures to increase further processing in all parts of the fishing industry, shall be further investigated. There are great opportunities to develop new products and to win new markets through raw materials from fisheries and aquaculture. We want to capture new opportunities within this industry, but then we also need to increase research efforts in this field. In a short time St.meld. No 19, the agricultural notification is processed. The agricultural industry has an important role to play in rural policy. International developments mean that we are facing exciting challenges. Soil, forest, land, fresh water and competence shall, through primary production and further processing, satisfy the different wishes of consumers and the requirements of the big society for common good. Forestry plays a major role in rural areas, both in the form of jobs, housing and the maintenance of a strange cultural landscape. There are great opportunities for reprocessing and increased value creation locally in this industry. A good rural policy is also a good common policy. We must continue to work on the renewal and conversion of business in the Sami areas too, both in order to promote the development of Sami communities and Sami languages and culture and on the basis of ecological considerations. Particular attention will be paid to developing combinations of industries in the pact with Sami traditions and as part of a sustainable use of resources. Dwelling in districts also requires an efficient and good public sector that can produce good welfare and service provision. Well-developed infrastructure and welfare services are fundamental prerequisites for growth, job creation and industrial development in all regions of the country. The role of the regional level in the provision of these services will be optimised, inter alia, by: be evaluated by the Task Distribution Committee, which is due to be held in July of this year. The government will come back to this question in a separate case to Stortinget next spring. This will also have an impact on regional and regional policy in the future. Living patterns and businesses in different parts of the country are influenced by the sum of business, infrastructure, education and culture policies and welfare, services and location policies. I want to focus on two key themes that go across almost all sectors: access to well-being and services and government localisation policies. Equivalent access to well-being goods, necessary infrastructure and public services are fundamental prerequisites for the settlement and development of all parts of our country. The objective of an equivalent service provision is strong in Norway. It's supposed to be there. The starting point must be a natural requirement for public goods to be expanded and represent a fairly equivalent offer to all citizens of the country, irrespective of their place of residence and income. The Equalisation message shows that there has been a significant cross-urban and cross-country balancing. However, there are still major problems in many places, such as: due to long distances and poor medical and teacher coverage. The availability of public welfare and infrastructure services must also be ensured for people outside the centre. We will work to develop a creative and innovative service sector where there is also room for large voluntary efforts. The municipal income system must help to create security for municipalities in order to enable them to provide equivalent services. The revenues of municipalities shall be increased. But money for important purposes can not only pass through increased appropriations. We want to demand both the organisation and the use of money. At the same time, local political authorities must have the freedom to prioritise between sectors and in the choice of solutions. We have to think again and see if we can use the resources in a better way. In this context, as is known, a testing scheme is established with consultations between the Government and the Municipal Councils of Central America. I have great expectations of that. I think that through it we should be able to contribute to a common understanding of reality, come further, and that in that way we should also be able to contribute to less state governance and less earmarked means, and thus strengthen local democracy. The government has launched a programme for the establishment of public service agencies as part of the out-of-court approach. 70 municipalities with negative population development were invited to participate, and so far 47 have reported their interest. I believe that that programme can help to ensure that the populations of smaller municipalities have good access to different types of services. Appropriate use of new technologies can make resource use more efficient and provide better services for the population with large travel distances to public agencies. The new information and communication technology is not just of interest in improving government service production. It will also be one of the main sources of innovation, value creation, efficiency improvement, increased competitiveness and restructuring in business and public activities. Therefore, it will also be very central in the further development of our services, and it may also affect the location of businesses and state activities. The government's goal is for the new technology to benefit everyone. It is important to launch a national initiative to ensure that broadband networks and services can be exploited by households, public enterprises and enterprises across the country. In the coming years, therefore, the population of Norway will be offered access to broadband networks and services and other channels of communication at reasonable prices. District and regional policies often focus on what we can call the ‘hard packages’, such as roads, construction, port facilities and industrial development. However, we need to guard against just giving priority to health, transport, industry, housing, construction and businesses, which in themselves are important. We also have to bear in mind that without a meaningful spare time, few people can live a full and complete life. The leisure time will fill us with forces, new ideas, thoughts and values. Leisure is about culture – in all its opinions of the concept. Few people want to live in areas where no culture is offered. I want to warn you that culture is being put in the back row, like the sector you're giving money to if there's anything left over. I think that those municipalities that don't have a rich cultural life will lose residents for the benefit of those who are betting on culture. Therefore, culture is also important in a regional policy context. Through culture, we become aware of who we are, why we are like that, and where we belong. The government has renewed the public sector as one of its main objectives. The aim is that welfare services and services should be improved. One of our main challenges is to avoid this work coming into conflict with regional policy objectives. Renewal shall not mean the centralisation of services and jobs in such a way that districts become losers. On the contrary, the ambition is to improve overall benefits in all parts of the country. We need to look at how we can redeploy tasks and exploit skilled labour through active use of, among others. electronic communications. In the necessary renewal, conversion and efficiency, the regional distribution of services and jobs must be an important framework condition. The changes that take place, including: in the Post, may be an example of how coordination between different processes of change can provide new opportunities. In many cases, through post offices, postal services and, in particular, public service agencies, the service provision can be changed and, in fact, improved. Conversion in the Post may also be an example of the technological possibilities that can open up. The entry represents a very well-developed infrastructure in the form of an IT network that interconnects to all parts of the country, and personnel resources competent to handle transactions in large volumes. This transformation must be seen in the context of ongoing changes in other state activities. I am concerned that we have to try to turn the situation into something positive and exploit the resources that are already lying there, but in new ways. This is a question we will follow up in the future. Finally, I would like to say: we want to add up to an open process around the work of the paper on regional and regional policy, which is coming next spring. Therefore, in the coming months, we will organise open message meetings with different themes, and discussion notes will be published, among others. on the Internet, where we want to record this important process. The most well-known slogans of the working party are: ‘By and land, hand in hand’. For me, it expresses the slogan equality, tolerance and solidarity with each other no matter where we live in this country. We need the cities, and we need the towns. It is in the light of what this statement needs to be understood. The government has visions of acting as a government working for equal living conditions for everyone – no matter where in the country you live.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e574	The President will propose that the presentation of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs be submitted to a subsequent meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e588	This interpellation has been addressed to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs because there are several signals that changes have been made in the income system for municipalities in recent years, in sum, have given us a system that we believe has several weaknesses. Firstly, the income system for poor incentives facilitates industrial development. Secondly, changes have weakened rather than strengthen district municipalities that have developed a strong business life, thus helping to weaken the districts. Thirdly, in common labour markets, the balance between municipalities of residence and municipalities of employment has been seriously distorted. From the Right, we believe that the income system for the municipal sector must be based on some main considerations: firstly, that municipalities must be treated in a non-discriminatory way in terms of transfers in relation to objective criteria; secondly, that the income system must be based on positive incentives for their own economic development; and thirdly, that the income system must be built up under a municipal autonomy. When the income system was adjusted in 1996 following the so-called Rattsø I investigation, it was underlined by most parties that the income system should contain better incentives for municipalities to increase their own income base and that the municipalities should be left with more of the last taxpayers than before. The problem with that change was that it had two effects. One was what you wanted, the focus: to keep the minimum income municipalities a little bit more of the tax dollars. It was a change that also the Right Warmly supported. The other side, the negative side, of this change, was the simultaneous increase in the number of minimum income municipalities from above 300 to today closer to 397. This meant that a number of municipalities got less incentives than they had before, because of this change. So now 10 ounces of the last tax penny are going to be theirs. Then the number of tax bills for municipalities is also important. Here, almost every year since 1993, the bulk of the population has contributed to the reduction of tax credits by reducing the share of tax revenue as part of municipal income by reducing the municipality's share of the taxpayer. On top of this, the municipalities' share of corporate tax has been transferred to the country. These three elements help to weaken the impulses for economic development and the incentives for a municipality to increase its own tax base and leave it governing, for example: for land policy. A clear sign of this has been that during the autumn of this year’s budgetary procedure, a number of municipalities have asked questions about their own costs to the Kemnerkontor. This is documented from a number of municipalities, for example: Kristiansand and Moss, where this debate has been great. When additional calls for taxes do not provide the municipalities with a return to cover the payroll costs of staffing in order to achieve this, any councillor or municipal politician who is aware of the costs will be in doubt as to whether it is where the municipality will spend its money. Other signals also show up. Entrepreneurs who want to expand their business areas meet local authority attitudes that suggest that objectives other than business development are given priority in spatial planning now, clearly justified by the fact that the municipality does not receive any direct return for increased income to the enterprises and increased profitability in them. In district municipalities that have developed a good business life, and such as based on commuting in order to obtain sufficient labour, the tax revenues of companies have contributed to the establishment of municipalities as attractive residential municipalities. And some municipalities have commuting not only from neighbouring municipalities, but also from our neighbouring countries. In rural policy, this has been important in order to create stable labour force in high-growth regions. In this way, the changes in the income system have indirectly supported the most viable district municipalities and made buffers against other more centralising forces that we have. It's now changed. For the majority, it is not natural that municipalities in areas that contribute strongly to the value creation of the entire country are actually left with some more of the income than other municipalities do. For us it would be natural. It would also create an underlying force in industrial development, because everyone would take a positive view of plotting the land. Furthermore, it is striking that different industrial activities are to be treated as differently as they are today, in relation to the local community's return on these activities. First of all, once the corporation tax has moved, only the underwriting activity has become state-owned. This means that the form of companies, the way they are organised in the business sector, is decisive for whether or not industrial activities generate tax revenue to the municipality. A number of coastal municipalities are now experiencing this because restructuring in the fisheries and aquaculture sector is ranging from participating-like companies to limited-liability companies. In the Austevoll municipality, such a change results in a loss of tax revenue in the multi-millionaire class. Even more striking is the discrimination made by the majority of large-scale municipalities and municipalities with other industrial activities — many who also benefit from a common resource base in the same way as the power municipalities. While the Storting has almost all considered that the power stations must have a stable and large source of income for the exploitation of natural resources and industrial activities associated with it, the same ideas relating to other industries and natural resource use are gone altogether. And the parallel of corporation tax is perfectly clear in this relationship, for the so-called natural resource tax is billed for crowns against the state corporation tax on power companies. The right considers that the power stations will receive the income on which tax reconciliation was based in 1996, but we believe that the idea that the power stations should have a special right to a part of the income should also apply to other municipalities with a different industrial structure, and should also be more prominent in the discussion of an income system. It has surprised me that this has not been necessary in part of the centre parties, because they have been very concerned with the incomes of the power stations. That the party of state councils, the Workers' Party, does not think so, may not be so strange in view of the ideological tradition of both planting, centralization and redistribution that the party has had. The party has also had no tradition of taking municipal autonomy seriously, nor of stimulating it. The central parties probably have more to answer to in this context, since they were involved in the conversion of corporate tax, especially the Centre Party. In some growth municipalities, business start-ups are today refused because start-ups generate large, both direct and indirect, costs that the municipalities feel cannot be defended in relation to other urgent tasks, especially when it is not to be matched by later income from the same enterprises. Now many people could say that it's okay enough, and then they settle in less-pressed areas elsewhere in Norway. Unfortunately, it's not always a fact when we're now in a much more globalized economy. The alternative is not necessarily a place in Norway. The location of establishment may be justified by the proximity of special training provision, the proximity of a local cluster, the proximity of skilled labour because other enterprises have similar activities. The alternative is already today — and will be stronger in the future — the establishment in other countries of a number of enterprises, not elsewhere in Norway. When growing areas then reject business start-ups, such as: some municipalities in Vestfold have had to do so also has an impact on the competitiveness of Norway. We may talk too little about distribution policy when we discuss the income system of municipalities. If we do that, we risk ignoring the fact that this must also be an element in how to achieve a future-oriented and competitive Norway. In our view, it is therefore important to continue to work on how the income system should be organised in order to also take account of industrial developments. When this interpellation was first cancelled, it was for the previous government. Now, this debate comes close to the presentation of the Community economicproposition and the assessment of the follow-up to the Council Sea. I don't think I'm going to give any final new income system for the municipalities, it'll probably be a change of this all the time. But the question is which way the future changes are going to go. Does the Council of State think that these issues that are addressed in the interpellation are at all issues that she wants to continue working on? And does she think that more of local value creation should remain in the municipalities, and that the income system also needs to be assessed in the future in the light of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e628	In the interpellation, the representative Solberg raises the question of whether more of the local value creation should remain in the municipalities. My answer to this is: Yes, the government has the ambition that municipalities will retain more of their own tax revenue. The consideration of local self-government suggests that the financing of the municipal sector should have a strong local anchoring. The government considers it important to give the local government a more autonomous financial position by reducing dependence on state transfers. Local tax revenue should constitute a significant part of the income of the local government sector. This proportion is currently above 44 pst. Therefore, the government intends to escalate the share of the tax in the income of the municipal sector, in line with the previous treatment of this issue in the Stortinget. However, this is not due to the principle that we need a redistribution between municipalities in order to ensure an equivalent service provision. The municipal sector is an important tool to ensure the cohesion and distribution of welfare goods. Therefore, it is also important to ensure that municipalities have equal opportunities to perform their welfare tasks. The economic income system is essential to ensure this. No municipalities are alike, neither in terms of population, geographical or other areas. The income system shall pursue the overall objective of balancing such differences, so that the financial assumptions of municipalities for the provision of welfare services are balanced. The main reason for the differences in service provision between municipalities is that they have different income bases. In the income system, therefore, there is an income-balancing grant. The purpose of this grant is to balance the large differences in tax revenue between municipalities. As of this year, the revenue balance between municipalities is known to continue throughout the year. It means a rapid compensation for municipalities that experience a failure in tax revenue. In examining the second sub-examination of the Income System Committee, Stortinget decided to transfer the company tax from the municipalities to the State from 1999. The company tax was very unevenly distributed between the municipalities. State corporation tax makes less difference in tax revenue and thus more equivalent service provision between municipalities. I would also like to remind you that many of the large businesses in this country have their headquarters in Oslo, despite the fact that large parts of the business take place around the whole country. With municipal corporation tax, Oslo as the head office municipality came out of this well. At the same time, large parts of the jobs and the costs of establishing jobs around many districts were involved. The conversion made with increased personal taxes instead of corporate taxes has resulted in a greater share of the value creation remaining in the municipalities where it actually happens. In the interpellation, the representative of Solberg claims that the income system for municipalities has small incentives for business development to become a priority task in municipalities. I am aware that there may be a link between income balancing and the industrial policy efforts of local authorities. However, studies carried out indicate that increased municipal income is not the only motivation to facilitate economic development. Municipalities will have a clear interest in helping to facilitate jobs for their citizens. A 1994 research report asked local politicians whether municipalities should engage in the development of the nutrient base in the municipality. Here, interestingly enough, the politicians in the minimum income municipalities were actually more positive about this than the politicians in the other municipalities. This suggests that there is not necessarily a correlation between income balancing and the local government’s commitment to industrial development. Nevertheless, I see that the municipalities should have something economic left to pursue an active industrial policy. This is also one of the reasons why income balancing is designed as it is, with partial rather than full balancing. In the examination of the first sub-examination of the Income System Committee, the Stortinge decided to step down the level of income balancing. In the past, a minimum income municipality that received an additional tax credit did not put back any extra – everything went to the community. The reduction in the level of compensation in the income equalisation from 100 p.m. up to 90 pst is an instrument to stimulate municipalities to strengthen their local tax base, including the local tax base. by focusing on the organisation of business development. However, the industrial policy of municipalities is more than just business-oriented measures, business-friendly regulatory plans and infrastructure development. A good municipal service provision is a prerequisite for industrial development in municipalities. Services provided by municipalities, e.g.: in schools, kindergartens and recreation, access to skilled labour will also be affected and thus affect the establishment of enterprises. The income system balances differences in order to allow municipalities to provide their inhabitants with as much equivalent services as possible. In addition, the income system shall pursue policy objectives for a viable district policy. Thus, district municipalities can offer a better service than they could otherwise have done, thus also becoming a more attractive location for business. In this way, the income system can both take account of an equivalent service provision and provide a basis for economic development in the municipalities most in need of such development. Good distribution policies can also be good business policies! In the interpellation, Solberg’s representative challenges the Government to change the municipal income system. I am here pointing out that the Stortinget has asked for a review of the income system in the municipal economic proposition. It's coming as we know it on May 19th. In that review, the Government will take a closer look at the impact of Rattsø I and II. I have noticed, of course, that in its budget position for 2000, the Municipal Committee points out that the aim of this review must be to achieve a somewhat more even distribution of the total income of the local government sector. Of course, we are facing a conflict of objectives here. Less income balancing may stimulate business development, but there may also be greater differences in the provision of services between municipalities. I assume that the objective of a fair distribution of revenue must be given great weight. An ambitious balancing of income is necessary to provide the basis for an equivalent service offer in municipalities. At the same time, the balancing of income should be designed in such a way that an active industrial policy affects the income levels of municipalities. Municipalities should also receive a greater share of their income as tax revenue than is the case today, so that more of the local value creation remains in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e662	I am pleased that the Council of State in its statement underlined that in the future it will ensure that the municipalities get back more of their own tax revenues. It relates to one of the three signs of change that have been made, which I believe have contributed to a negative development in relation to the fact that municipalities are more able to live on their own tax revenues. I also hope that it is actually implemented. I remember that this has been a goal since, among other things, removed the company tax, but that the majority each harvest has gone the other way and actually balanced and reduced the taxpayer in relation to it. The 50 p.m. target. Thus, in tax revenue, which was a goal for the majority - we wanted a higher rate - there has been a wrong path in relation to it. You've gone from 47 pst. to 44 pst. and set the objective. In terms of income balancing, I agree that a basis is needed in all municipalities in order to provide some equivalent services. But you can imagine designing income equalization in completely different ways. You can, among other things: imagine that an income equation becomes more asymmetrically upward – i.e. it is not symmetrical in relation to the upward and downward cut. You can imagine that you're pulling more municipalities into the income balance, but you're also leaving more municipalities behind. I think one should think a little bit creative, because as evolution is now, there's quite a lot of evidence to suggest that municipalities are increasingly, of course, in a depressed economy, also down-prioritising economic development. Then there is another question that has also emerged in the wake of the change in corporate tax, which I so far affected in the interpellation, namely the fact that there have been changes in the corporate structure, also affecting changes in the municipalities that have in some way lost in the reform of corporate tax. I have a follow-up question to the Council of State: Do you now want to review and ensure an evaluation of both the compensation schemes being made and the effect of removing company taxes outside the municipalities – i.e. how important it has been to different municipalities? As former Chairman of the Municipal Committee, the Council of State has been aware, once we have traveled to different counties, that at least half of the municipalities have thought that they have lost more than they have recovered from the reform. In addition to the more ideological resistance that has existed, it is believed that one has lost, despite the fact that when the previous government presented the consequences, it was Oslo, Bærum and Asker who were to lose, plus ten district councils that had a special business activity. As for the relationship with the head office issue, I think the majority of the Stortinget has exaggerated the significance of it. The Ministry of Finance, before the change in corporation tax, had changes in the group tax that would make it possible to redistribute the income between the head office and the out-of-office offices. This is complicated and difficult. This was put on ice. But it should not be overlooked that there are other changes to make and get the distribution differently, and rather maintain the positive incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e680	I refer to what I said in my first answer that we are concerned that the municipalities will retain a larger share of their tax revenue than the case is today, and we will return to that within not many days. When it comes to the issue of corporate tax evaluation, there is a clear majority – as the representative Solberg and I know very well – in this Stortinget who have gone into the process of reforming it. But of course, we consider all aspects of the changes made to the income system, including corporate tax, when we are now reviewing it. We will come back with concrete proposals for Stortinget on 19 May, and I ask for understanding that I cannot be more detailed than that per year. today. But as far as we can tell, we will of course come back with a review of the income system, and especially with regard to what the Stortinget has asked for in relation to Rattsø. We're trying to evaluate as many sides as possible, and we're going to come back on 19 May with something more specific than what I've just said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e687	The Labour Party thought it was right to convert the company tax, and still believes it, because it gives a better distribution between municipalities. I also believe that the corporate tax has revealed what the income system for municipalities really is, that things have come out here that you really weren't aware of. That's why there's reason to look at today's system. After all, the Stortinget has asked for this, and I expect the Council of State to come back to it in the municipal economic proposition, which will come soon. In addition, we have introduced current income trends from the new year. That is what the Workers' Party believes is right. But there's a reason to see if the system is good enough, so that the municipalities get enough incentive to continue to collect almost 100 pst. of the tax charged and to verify the correctness of the basis. I am afraid that it might be tempting to reduce the tax rates in the municipalities when the local government economy is desperate and the effects on the municipalities of getting more money so to speak are gone. 99 pst. tax equalisation is paid, and that is good. But the last percent actually represents between 2 and 3 billion dollars, a very high amount. Demanding the last percent also requires extra effort. Therefore, it is reasonable that the municipalities are also left with a larger share. I have an example from the municipality of Moss that shows the problem in this municipality. In order for the municipality of Moss to increase its income by NOK 400000, the municipality must collect nearly SEK 14 million. kr in total taxes. In order to achieve this increase, there will be three annual works, which costs the municipality approx. One million. kr per. years. So that's going to give the municipality less total money. It also shows that it is the state that is the second largest loser in this collection. I raised this question with the previous municipal minister last autumn, but although he was open to the issue, nothing has happened. That's why I put my trust in the new municipal minister, who is now also signaling that she will look at the problems, take hold of them and do something with them. It should be possible to find a system that gives the nearly 400 minimum income municipalities a better carrot or a premium to bet on the control and collection of taxes, even if the corporation tax has become State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e700	Today, Norway has a municipal sector characterised by rigid municipal monopolies, where competition and privatisation are almost entirely absent. In Norway, all significant municipal service production has been protected from any competition. This has contributed strongly to creating a virtually hopelessly inefficient municipal sector. For many years, municipalities have been able to compensate for this significant lack of efficiency by increasing taxes and charges, i.e. increasing the income of municipalities in the least creative way. Within this municipal monopoly system, a strong culture has been developed to work towards central politicians, thus generating the largest and most passive transfers from the state. So, until now, the municipalities have had to look at how the municipalities themselves can save money, or actively have to work to influence their own incomes in a positive way. When the majority of the population unbelievably deducted corporate tax from the municipalities in 1999, one of the most recent municipalities fell into a position of autonomy to influence their own incomes in a positive and socially appropriate way. When the municipalities were excluded from the tax income of the enterprises, the interests of the municipalities also fell in order to actively facilitate business start-ups. Some municipalities are now saying incredibly no to business start-ups, because they see very small economic benefits by facilitating business activities after the loss of company tax. This is an unfortunate development, and the Progress Party also proposes to reintroduce the corporate tax for the municipalities. Thus, today’s income system has become less motivating for local authorities’ desire to facilitate business start-ups, and the whole framework funding system also acts as a catalyst for local policy involvement. In addition, the income system is also partially flawed in relation to the embedded redistribution ideology of the income system. Today's income system is designed in view of an economic and offered millimetre equity in all municipalities. But in this way you haven't done very well. Revenue continues to vary enormously, and the standard of service provision varies accordingly. The income system of municipalities is also strongly influenced by ambitious regional policy priorities. The strong emphasis on district policy can also be said to have helped to establish what some would call an inappropriate municipal structure. It can also be argued that the balancing ideology of today's income system for municipalities punishes the enterprising municipalities and rewards the depraved municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e711	Interpellant Erna Solberg asks several important questions, and ends with whether value creation should not be more likely to remain in the municipalities. On that question, the Council of State answered yes, clearly and clearly. I'm glad. I have just visited the municipality of Kvänangen, a small municipality in District Norway where they produce and export between 150 000 and 200000 kroner per person. head — every old and every young person included. Obviously, they should have been allowed to keep more of the value creation in District Norway. Rattsø had the task of proposing a simpler and fairer income system. The size has essentially given its support to the many proposals made by the Council. One of the proposals from Rattsø was to make the corporate tax state, so that it would work more fairly. So that's what the population has said yes to: greater justice. It has already been pointed out in the debate that values created one place in the country, perhaps were taxed elsewhere. The company tax as it operates now respects the principle of a more equitable income system. The State recovers the corporate tax to the municipal sector in a more equitable way. If we are to live throughout the country, there must be work for people who are going to live in the countryside and in every municipality. I do not recognize the description that there is no business development in Kommune-Norway. The municipalities are not asking primarily for any company tax to be refunded. Municipalities are asking for active tools in the form of municipal industrial funds, the development of commercial gardens, a more risky SND, which wants to support more establishment and not just become a large bank. The interpellant has pointed to an important tax collection problem. I hope that we will come back to this, but I hope that the attitude in Kommune-Norway is the way it was in our own state, where we started an action against undeclared work and got huge tax revenues because of this. In this country, if we are to do our tasks, we must not just look at what serves the individual, but what serves the community. I am pleased that the issue of increased tax rates has been raised and supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e728	It's a very important thing that's being addressed here, and we're in the middle of what's needed to develop all over Norway, that's stimulation and motivation more than direct control. The Minister of Local Affairs pointed out in his statement on district and regional policy that it is no disadvantage for young people to move from much of the country. But it's a problem that so far too few move back again. Now, of course, you can discuss in the infinitesimal sense of what's going on to make people move back, but we can't help but say that jobs are completely central. So stimulating the creation of new businesses, and the development of existing ones, is a main task for the public at all levels. And of course, you can ask the question, "Yes, but what is the role of the municipalities in this system?" Nutritional status is important in the municipalities, but spokesperson, adviser and technical authority have much more important functions than the pure nutritional status. I do not recognise what the representative of Østberg just said, that there are nutrition funds and other measures the municipalities are asking for. In this case, Østberg is talking to completely different municipalities from what I have done, because just having to keep a greater share of the income and get back the company tax will be highlighted as perhaps the most important thing in both the central area and the remote edges. It's about infrastructure, it's about planning, especially land disposal, but it's also about a lot of small things when building, it's about time perspective, process time, it's about the priority of means, but it's also about the priority of focus and priority of what to invest in. Local authorities have an important role to play in this, and incentives are needed here. The Councils of State also highlighted the motivations and attitudes and attitudes towards individuals in their distribution earlier today. But I think we also have to extend this to the municipalities. We need a renewal of the public sector, said the Council of State. This renewal should move towards a more positive attitude and more positive actions towards the existing and unborn business. It is true, as has been said, that this motivation does not come just from tax revenue. There are also many other things here. But it is quite clear that the income system, the loss of corporate tax, for many municipalities, is at least felt so that this leads to very great disadvantages and less motivation, and it felt discomfort in itself is an obstacle to development. So I also want to challenge the Council of State: should more be done to stimulate the municipalities into the development of the economy? And what does the Council of State really want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e746	The centre party will secure all municipalities an economy that matches the one they want to solve and the funds that are at their disposal. We have, in and out of government, seven years ago for more funds for the municipal sector. We also have a basis for a common understanding of tasks and resources through the establishment of consultation arrangements with KS, which today's government now has the possibility to follow up. It is the framework within which local authorities can take care of their elderly and disabled people, provide a good school and a safe growth environment, and stimulate economic activity and culture. The interpellant's starting point, leaving more of the revenue in place locally, is of course interesting. It specifically mentions corporate tax. At present, municipalities have different representations and very different possibilities for own income and also for corporate tax. That's why there's a mix-up between municipalities so high on the agenda. It is to give all municipalities the opportunity to stimulate increased activity and to ensure equivalent living conditions. It was uncertain in the Central Party about the conversion of corporate tax. We look with interest forward to the alert review of the sequences notified to the Financial Committee, which comes in the revised budget. But let me stress: most of the inhabitants of this country have a desire to work where they live, and it's not that the municipalities have no other ringing effects on business than corporate taxes. On the contrary, there are other revenues and exposures on leisure and otherwise that have much to say. What are the Right's answers to those municipalities most in need of local incentives, i.e. the outlying municipalities, which do not have the possibility either of county and state jobs or of large locomotives at the centre? Yes, it has so far been our reduction in the framework, no to municipal food funds and even the tangle of coercion if one does not drive effectively enough. Let me also mention the assignment of a central party council that had a strong commitment to give all the municipalities equal opportunities. Now the municipal economic proposition is the first test piece. Let's encourage each other to look at the frames and primarily the free revenues, and increase them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e757	Interpellant Erna Solberg argues for and wants to change the income system of the municipalities. She wants municipalities to retain a greater proportion of the corporate tax so that municipalities are given a special incentive to facilitate business development. I suppose she wants a system that gives all the municipalities this opportunity. The representative of Solberg knows, of course, that changing the profile of corporate taxation requires a new review of the whole of the municipal income system. SV will be involved in and evaluate these systems, but we would remind you that the income system for municipalities based on Rattsø I and II is currently suspended through seemingly permanent transitional arrangements. So far it is only possible to see fragmented on this. The tax system is and shall be a sharing instrument. Our task is to ensure proper and fair distribution. SV does not disagree that the tax system should also be used as an instrument to achieve desired development and to provide useful incentives. For example, we do not ignore the fact that the municipalities, by keeping more of the personal tax, provide an incentive to better facilitate the provision of housing at affordable prices. In the case of SV, it is particularly important that municipalities are ensured a predictable and adequate economy in order to carry out the tasks assigned to the municipality or committed to it. It's not like that today. And I would like to remind you that precisely the predictability considerations have been central to the conversion of corporate taxation. This is strongly cyclical and, as an essential element to cover the operating costs of municipalities, it is not appropriate. SV requires the transmission system that users of local government services do not change their expectations year after year based on short-term business fluctuations. SV will always listen to the messages coming from the municipalities. In this case, several municipalities have asked the question, and I have to say it surprises me a little. It is not new that the municipal authorities require taxes and taxes from the municipality do not benefit immediately. Social security contributions and employers' contributions are examples of this. In addition, the premise that, as was said, it should not pay off to collect the marginal tax breaks is that everyone else actually does. This is what the municipalities know. And it's not particularly new and unknown to the municipalities that they actually work in a solidarity collective system. The most amazing thing, however, is that municipalities have to present it to do something that does not pay off financially, as particularly challenging. It is the rule rather than the exception that municipal activity has a higher expenditure side than the income side. I am also surprised that someone seems to believe that the main element of the municipality's business work is getting the more immediate access to some marginal tax dollars. There are other effects that are greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e773	I felt the need to take the floor and make a little comment to the representative Erna Solberg when she now asks that we look at the income system so that we can arrange for economic development to become a priority task in the municipalities. Then it's a little fun to remember the political memory. In this respect, I addressed the budget position for this year and the Right Budget, and the Right proposed reducing the appropriations to local and regional economic development. I think that's a little strange, and an example of a little bit of bad political memory. Otherwise, I'm happy with what the council said, that she'll wait until May 19th, where we get a broad review of the income system. I hope it's satisfactory. I also hope that the municipal economic proposition will signal that in the future we will approach what Rattsø I and II have pointed out. We know what Rattsø I and II say, and in fact, the majority of the Biggest have agreed that we should try to implement. I hope that now we can man ourselves up, at least once in the future, and get to what Rattsø pointed to. I also fully agree with the Council of State in what she says about corporate tax, because it was clear that income from corporate tax went mainly to Oslo. And the companies that provided these revenues were not in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e782	I also don't think Leif Lund is right when he says that the revenue went mainly to Oslo. One thing to realize is the dimension of this, the number of small municipalities that depended on the small tax income that the small enterprise really left behind in a municipality of 1 100, 1 200, 1 300, 1 400 or 1 500 inhabitants. That's what's important, and that's what's now missing from local politicians, spokesmen and advisers, that they no longer have the income they had before. Nor is it exactly as the representative Ivar Østberg says, that this is being compensated. It won't. Now I have traveled in many municipalities in More and Romesdal. Not a municipality can provide an estimate that they have been compensated for the loss of income they have received by making the corporation tax state-owned. All the spokesmen I've met, with the exception of one, because they don't have company taxes, have said, regardless of batch color, that this was wrong. The worst part was that I even experienced a company owner who noticed that the municipality stopped taking an interest in business development, because there was no incentive to do a job. They note that the municipal interest in maintaining the municipal services of the community in the municipality was the last on the priority list, because it does not generate income in the municipal register. Then there's something that's not the way it should be. I don't get to vote when the council says that more of the tax revenue will be left in the municipalities, and then it's no more than a year since she sat here and was a representative and voted for a proposal that went to take this away, taking income from the municipalities that they had. This I'm not going to link. We have an expression of this, but I suppose it's not parliamentary language, so I shouldn't say it. But the point must be: if it is to be such that the municipalities that are trying to take an initiative are to be punished, as the system works today, while the municipalities that say ok, it doesn't matter what we do, because the income-sampling system arranges for us, where is the incentive to do an effort itself? When this is the case with group taxation, it is not a bigger problem than it had to be able to solve separately, regardless of the other corporation tax. I also have to say that I am looking forward to the distribution that comes Friday in 14 days, and then we will see what measures we can jointly come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e793	At the beginning of January, I attended a popular meeting at Austevoll where all the political parties on the Stortinget were represented, and where all the parties, with the exception of the Workers' Party, promised that more of the value creation would remain in the municipalities. The employee party representative was honest enough to say that there was a problem with value creation and distribution between municipalities. Here it is primarily about value creation, but it is also about tax income from business, and not just from those who live in the municipality. I've discovered with some amazement, because everyone promised to continue working on this, that none of the big-time representatives who were present at that meeting have participated in this debate, or have chosen to go on with what they thought, and that representatives of the same parties may have meant something else here. But that's the question of what we did in the state budget. In fact, we believe that the part of the economic development that lies in the state budget does not work very well at the points we have gone against, and we have argued for it in the state budget. What we're concerned about is that in spatial planning and in all other priorities in municipalities, this has a greater impact than the economic development and subsidies such as: the local business funds have. In addition, the instruments contained in the State budget are limited to a limited number of municipalities in the country, and many of the municipalities have, because they are underprivileged municipalities, initially their own interest in obtaining jobs for their employees and stopping their relocation. It is all the other municipalities that today do not experience this as such an acute problem, or as for example. is in a common labour market where a municipality is the municipality of employment of neighbouring municipalities, which in a way milks the system by being resident municipalities and does not take the additional costs that the councils also pointed out that the establishment of industrial activities actually triggers through, for example: requirements for higher road standards, traffic problems, land seizures, the influence of recreational and leisure opportunities in many places, which may result in a down-priority. I am, as I said, glad that the Council of State said you should keep more of the tax revenue in the municipalities, but I still think there is a need to look at a reversal of parts of the corporate tax, because I think we will see great negative effects in the long term of what we have done. I also think it's important to look at how income balancing is designed, so that you can be left with a larger share of the last tax dollars you get. It's a paradox that what really pays for a municipality today is to make Smoke live there. That's why there's going to be a discussion between Oslo and Molde if Smoke comes back, while it no longer gives any direct tax revenue that you have Aker's businesses located in the municipality. After all, it must be a paradox that the direct effects of the settlement of Smoke are much greater for the local economy than for the commercial activities actually carried out by the Aker Group. I think more people should take inwards that this should be more equal, because the Aker group creates more bonding of land and greater problems perhaps for the settlement than the Smoke settlement, no matter how large a dwelling he had to choose to build.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e804	First, a comment on the question from the representative Eye, who asked if the municipalities have good enough incentives to collect the tax. We'll see about that. In any case, the municipalities should collect the tax, but we should look at the question that the representative Eye addresses. When it comes to the issue of corporate tax, on which almost everyone has been involved, I would warn you a little bit against staring at the fact that it is the issue of corporate tax that is one of determining whether it is incentives or not for municipalities to drive business development. I believe that there is much more to it than questions about what is actually crucial to whether that is possible. In addition, as many have said, the fact that company taxes were made state-owned led to more justice and greater opportunities to offer more equivalent services throughout the country. I think that's also important to bring with me. Then I have to say that both the Right Party and the Advance Party may be the two parties that have been strongly in favour of implementing what is in the position of the Rattsø Committee. Then why aren't the same parties also because it's going to mean all of the Ratsø elements, or at least many of them? But we can perhaps come back to that in the debate later, in a month or two. I think it's more than local incentives that are important. There are a lot of things that are crucial for whether a person chooses to establish businesses in the districts. One of the things that I've been signalling is that municipalities are going to keep a larger share of their tax revenues. Then I would also say to the representative Solholm that I thought that the Progress Party was also concerned about it. Then I don't understand why the representative Solholm is so very indignant that as a representative of this government I now say that we actually intend to do so. I thought it was the goal that here was the most important. In the case of the rest of the income system, it is not the case that it is revised, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa said, but it comes on 19 May in the municipal economic proposition. It is clear that the framework for the entire municipal sector, how we distribute those frameworks, is very important, even when we are talking about economic development and the different opportunities for action we have within that system. So we're going to have a review of that, and I can't comment on it any more today. Then I fully agree with the representative, Bjørnsen, that it is very important that the municipalities are guaranteed the most predictable municipal economy possible, so that they know what they have to do with. I think that's also important when we're talking about jobs. There is an important question raised by the representative of Solberg. I've given some positive signals, so we'll see what's going on with the review of the income system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e821	The debate on case No. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-04.ana.ud1121e830	There is no record.
