ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e31	From the Eichres Groningensgruppe there is a notice that the application for a permit granted by the representative of the Ingvald Godal for the period from 5 June to 8 June is hereby amended to cover the period from 5 June to 7 June only. – This message is taken into account. The representative of Lars Rise is applying for leave on 8 and 9 June to attend the Council of Europe Environment Committee in Malta. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Ann Kathrine S. Tornås, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Ann Kathrine S. Tornås is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative Lars Rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e57	The representative of Vidar Kleppe will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e60	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Øyvind Waksdal, Øyvind Korsberg, Terje Knudsen, Øystein Hedstrøm, Per Ove Width and myself, I am delighted to propose to extend the deadline for the closure of the National Aid Fund for War victims' curator offices in Fredrikstad, Tønsberg, Arendal, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim, Bodø and Tromsø from 31 December 2001 until 31 December 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e65	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e77	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: the working party 15 minutes, the other parties 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e84	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee considers that both the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have not fulfilled their responsibility to follow up the New Rikshospital project. National Audit Service Study - Document No. 3:11 and Document No 3:7 - shows that the management and follow-up of the New Rikshospital project has not been adequately implemented in relation to the size and complexity of the project. The various actors have not had a good enough overview of the progress and costs of the project. Control mechanisms to ensure the timely detection of these serious weaknesses in the financial management have been lacking. There are also major questions about whether the Stortinget and the Stortinge Committees have been adequately informed about the problems of the implementation phase with regard to the plans, budgets and progress of the project. Since the Stortinget decided in 1988 to locate a new rickshospital in Gaustad, the project has undergone several extensions along the way. The original project was 109 000 m2. But both in 1994 and 1995 we have had extensions, and not least in 1996 we got an extension of 11,200 m2. The expansion of the original project has also resulted in an increase in processing capacity. However, as the Riksrevision stresses and demonstrates, the enlargement that took place in 1996 is very crucial for the problems that the project has raised further. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision's view that 1996, when the land frameworks were to be extended, was a very important time for decision-making. This extension was implemented without the existence of a building programme or sketch project as the basis for the cost calculation, which was never informed by the Stortinge and the Stortinge Committees. On the contrary, the Stortinget and the Committees of the European Parliament were informed that the work would be carried out in accordance with plans and budgets. It came, for example. in St. Prp. No 1 for 1997-98 by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The Committee would also point out that the Riksrevision in Document No. 3:10 from 1996 to 1997 raised questions concerning the responsibilities and powers of the project adopted by the Stortinget. One was told that there were no exceptions in relation to the responsibilities common to state projects in which State Building is a builder. This implies that the Ministry of Labour and Administration has the constitutional responsibility for the mistakes made by State Building in the planning and execution of the construction work from the start to the completion of the project. The national audit also showed in the document that the model chosen gave the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health less governance than the majority of the social committee originally envisaged, cf. Inner. S. No 215 for 1991-92. It was then pointed out by the National Audit Office that ambiguities related to the responsibilities and authority of the New Rikshospital project could contribute to weak political governance and poor efficiency. From the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, it was given assurances that in this context there were no problems with the organisation they had, that it worked, and that, in the event of irregular development of the project, the ministry had sufficient governance options, including: through work in the Quality Council. It must therefore be noted that it is difficult to find evidence that the sample has initiated improved measures at an early stage. The Committee has also had open consultations. On the way, we noticed that former Minister of Health Gudmund Hernes on Monday 3 April said the following: ‘The calculations were not finally carried out in the spring of 1997. What happened instead was that discussions with the Ministry of Finance tried to create a realistic cost framework.’ The Stortingen did not get any information about this. The Committee would point out that the Ministry of Finance should have informed the Storting about the discussions and balances that took place between State Building and the various departments involved that it does not propose a building programme or sketch project as the basis for the cost calculation, as the Ministry of Finance in a letter dated 25 April 1997 requests that State Building return with a building programme or sketch project as soon as it is available. Here the Stortinget should have been informed, cf. what appears in Document No. 7 for 1972-73 on page 16, in respect of the constitutional liability of the Councils for decisions taken by others. It is said that a State Council may be primarily responsible for the decisions it makes as a member of the Government or as a Head of Department. But he can also be responsible for decisions, etc. which has been taken by others. In addition to that, I would also like to refer to letters from the Prime Minister's office of 25 May 1981 which confirm the same and which also say that the Government's obligation to provide information to the Storting must be followed up. Paragraph 3 also shows the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. If that is not enough, I will also refer to Professor Dr. Juris Eivind Smith, who, in the context of a problem surrounding the constitutional responsibility of the Councils, says: ‘First, the Councils are obliged to provide information which they themselves hold and to provide the Storting with a comprehensive picture of the current knowledge base. [[or the Ministry]] However, they must also have an autonomous duty to ensure that the information provided by other bodies or persons to the Storting under the responsibility of the state councils meets the requirements of being true and comprehensive. The general rule must therefore be that, in relation to the Storting, the Council of State cannot take account of the fact that errors have been committed by subordinate bodies and officials.’ This shows that at that time, in 1996, when this case was up, this was very crucial. It is critical, which is also the subject of an overall committee, although the Workers' Party, together with SV in a special remark, is trying to write itself out of it, that the Storting did not get this information. And when you look at the discussion that was when it was about the merger between Telenor and Telia, and the statements that the Workers' Party came into that case, it's a cross of thought that in the Workers' Party there is such a big difference in the reality and the view of information to the Storting when one compares these issues, even though the issues are not the same. It shows that the Workers' Party is deliberately trying to cover up the fact that current Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who was Minister of Finance at the time, has not properly informed the Stortinget. I'm sorry about that. But I see the common comments we have, and what we agree on, namely that the Storting should have been informed in a much better way. The Committee also notes that the Hernes feel that the uncertainty in the project was clarified and concluded in connection with the work of the Ministry of Finance with Stadsbyggen in the spring of 1997. However, the uncertainty about costs led the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health not to submit a draft budget to the Stortinget in the autumn of 1996 but to postpone it to the revised national budget in spring 1997. During the hearing on 3 April this year, the Head of Mission Vidar Oma Steine said: ‘To me, there are a few points that are central. One is very rare in that in this Appendix No. 3 for the 1997 draft budget was authorised to submit a draft budget which did not also include a cost calculation.’ It shows that people who have worked in the department for a long time seem to have been a very special way of dealing with such a project – even if they do not want to make concrete progress. State Council Tore Tønne says during the hearings: ‘For me, this must necessarily be an ex post evaluation. It is much easier to make such assessments in retrospect than it is at the time, so it is relatively easy for me to say that as this case is now being dealt with, it would be good if there had been any more information about this.’ And then he again stresses, ‘It’s an ex post assessment.’ This clearly shows that the Stortinget should have been informed in a completely different way, and that the construction of a new national hospital, as one of the largest construction projects in Norway, should have resulted in a completely different flow of information to the Stortinget and the Stortinget's different committees than the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e141	The National Audit Board’s review of the management and follow-up of the New Rikshospital project and the consultations carried out under the auspices of the Control and Constitutional Committee, revealed, as the Advocate General said in his statement, that the planning and management of the project has not been sufficiently proportionate to the size and complexity of the project. At this point I fully support the case rapporteur in his description. The various actors did not have a sufficient overview of the progress and costs of the project. Control mechanisms to ensure the timely detection of serious weaknesses in financial management have been lacking. In short, no one has had the necessary overview or has properly respected the responsibility for follow-up. A number of extensions to the construction project have been carried out during the project period. New needs have been presented, new technologies, increased land needs etc. has made a significant contribution to breaking down the cost framework. There can hardly be any doubt that the areas of the new national hospital were initially too small and that the costs of the extensions have therefore been significantly higher than if the hospital had been planned from the start with a higher volume and capacity. The National Hospital shall, as is known in addition to being a regional hospital for health region 2, with nearly 1.5 million people, also cover local hospital functions, national functions, medical dining skills and university tasks such as teaching and research in cooperation with the University of Oslo. This is a selection of functions that sometimes represent different interests. The working party considers for its part reason to stress that all extensions have taken place after ordinary treatment in Stortinget. The size has also, in some cases, directly intervened in the process of concrete proposals. One example is the proposal for 45 places for rheumatology. An important prerequisite for planning the new rickshaw hospital was for hospitals in health region 2 to increase their capacity and take over patients and tasks from the old rickshaw hospital. This did not happen, and a unanimous committee believes that at a significant earlier stage in the construction process than in the spring of 1996, the Ministry should have made itself aware of the plans of the county councils. Conclusions of the National Audit Office in Document No 3:11 for 1997-98 that the procedures for communicating with county authorities in health region 2 in the planning and construction of a new national hospital have not been good enough, there is no need to ask questions. – I would like to have the Minister of Administration listen to what I have just said, but he is sitting in a co-op with the SV parliamentary leader. I find reason to note that. Another factor that has clearly contributed to the complexity of the construction process is the choice of the implementation model for the project, with strong fragmentation in the contract price. By entering into contracts for more than 170 different works prices, by purchasing different parts, for example. for technical installations in different locations, a significant risk and a formidable coordination responsibility were taken on. The results have also shown that this model was not successful. The Labour Party has therefore noted with satisfaction that, during the hearing in the Committee, the Managing Director of Stadsbyggen, Halvor Stormoen, stressed that responsibility for the future should lie at one level. The construction of hospitals differs from other projects by the need to make a number of adaptations between construction and medical-technical equipment. In this case, the responsibility for coordination was not properly respected and the responsibility was not clearly placed in the project organisation either. As I said, the design and construction of a new rickshospital has taken place over a long period of time, and a number of changes have been made to the original project that have triggered significant additional costs. During the Committee’s consultation, the issue of the extension of treatment capacity to 33 000 submissions per year has been raised. years, etc. and the costs involved were very central. According to Stadsbåg, which was responsible for the expansion, the costs were estimated at 337 million. kr, based on sketchwork carried out and experience figures. This amount was, after some discussion between Statsbyggen and the Ministry of Finance, proposed in the revised national budget in June 1997. The Labour Party – and I believe that SV will also clarify this later in the debate – is therefore very surprised by the strong criticism that the bourgeois parties are making against the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance in this regard. This criticism was also now made by the case-rapporteur, Mr Kleppe. The fact that an internal discussion about the sizes of numbers that results in the evaluation of the professional body's own cost estimate should have been forwarded to the Stortinget should, in my opinion, fall on its own unfairness. An information obligation that would include preliminary discussions between different departments and/or departments would be completely impossible to practice, and would contribute to the greatest degree to confuse decision-makers in Stortinget. There is also reason to recall, then, that the Riksrevision in its two reports has not criticised the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance at all. And I think the bourgeois parties, also represented in the committee, should notice that. The largest increase in the cost framework occurred between 15 October 1998 and July 1999. During this period, costs increased over 20 p.m., from 4,476 billion kroner to 5,713 billion kroner. Furthermore, during the same period, the date of transfer was postponed several times. The former Council of State, Dagfinn Højbrätten, during the hearing in the Committee, stressed that a very thorough work had been done, not only by the use of State Building's recommendations on a cost framework; as he said, an external quality assurance was also carried out by the departments before the final proposal for a new cost framework was submitted to the Stortinget. But neither did the changed frame hold. So the costs you have not had a full overview of are still incurred. This shows the complex and inconspicuous construction project involved. That it would be easier for Jens Stoltenberg than Gudmund Restad to get a full overview of the costs of the project, it is really difficult to see the logic in. The former Council of State High Council confirmed that all reports up to August/September 1998, when the cost gap and postponement became known, so that everything was on track and that it was possible to move in at the intended time. The working party seems to have no reason to doubt the correctness of this. The important thing about this review of the project is what we can learn for future projects. It is therefore necessary that we now have a review of all aspects of the construction of a new national hospital, and that the Government submits this evaluation to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e177	Two years have passed since the Riksrevision sent one of the two reports on which this setting is based to Stortinget. However, treatment was postponed pending new reports on New Rikshospital. In order to further clarify the matter, the Committee held open hearings. The Committee has also been on the lookout for the new national hospital and has found that we have received a magnificent building with an excellent location. And probably it also turns out to be functional and appropriate now that it's been used. The construction of a new national hospital has been a large and complex construction project with extensive health and economic repercussions, despite the fact that the new hospital was originally planned with less capacity than the old one – the condition was that county municipalities in health region 2 should expand their capacity accordingly, yes expected operational savings were actually a significant factor in the Stortingen’s decision to build a new national hospital. However, developments have gone hand in hand, both in terms of health policy and in terms of medical care, as well as the need for changes and enlargements in the construction project. Throughout the decision-making process, there has been a significant political struggle about the size of the new national hospital. Therefore, the size itself has a significant responsibility for the fact that the last enlargement was not decided before the autumn of 1996. While the 1994 and 1995 enlargements of the United Kingdom could be carried out with small redesigns and smaller amounts of conversion, the 1996 enlargements triggered significant overruns both cost-effectively and in view of completion and re-entry, consequences that have been seriously underestimated in retrospect. The modifications/extensions became a major additional burden for an already heavily pressed project organisation. The conversions also included heavy and centrally located functions in the original project that were under construction or almost completed. This led to areas being reprogrammed and reprojected. It was necessary to put a temporary stop to some construction work while this was taking place, and the construction site became rational. Following the 1994 and 1995 enlargements, State Building indicated that further hospital expansions could lead to large and unforeseen cost increases. However, the 1996 enlargement decision was taken without the simultaneous adoption of a cost framework and without the existence of a building programme. The size was not informed that there was also no construction programme or sketch project when the financial framework for the 1996 enlargement was established by the Ministry of Finance to be sufficient. The information received from the Government on enlargement in 1996 and up to 1998 has been that the work is carried out in accordance with plans and budgets. At the open hearings, the current Council of State confirmed that all reports until August/September 1998 had been kept on track and that it was possible to move on to the planned date of entry into force in the autumn of 1998. The Committee is therefore critical that State-building did not seem to have a sufficient overview of the progress of the project and thus could not keep the overall authority sufficiently informed. The overall project responsibility for New Rikshospital has been shared between the Ministry of Social and Health as the contracting department, and the Ministry of Labour and Administration, which is responsible for State Building. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is responsible for prioritising the construction project, its size and qualitative design and aspects relating to the ministry’s handling of the construction business. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has the constitutional responsibility for mistakes made by State buildings in planning and carrying out the construction work. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has an independent responsibility for the financial frameworks provided. A unanimous committee is of the opinion that neither the Ministry of Labour nor the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has adequately fulfilled its responsibility to follow up the New Rikshospital project and, like the Rikshospital, notes that the various actors have not been sufficiently well aware of the progress and costs of the project. Control mechanisms that would ensure the timely detection of the serious weaknesses of the financial management have been lacking. In view of future large-scale construction projects, it is important to review the different aspects of the construction of a new national hospital in order to take advantage of the animal-acquired experience in this case — among others. that functional responsibilities should be purchased collectively and that external quality assurance is required prior to grossing-up. I also refer to the review of the rapporteur and recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e200	I refer you to the rapporteur's statement on the Committee's position. Given that the right has not found it necessary to have its own specific comments, I also have a correspondingly smaller need to repeat it both to the case rapporteur and others have said about the facts of the case. In addition, joint comments and the Committee's overall comments are also part of the view of the Right on this famous case. By the way, let me give the Riksrevision a positive feedback for its work in this matter, as well as in other matters where the Riksrevision is reviewing and reporting to Stortinget. It is, perhaps especially in this matter, necessary with quality and credibility, and that is what characterises the report and work of the National Audit Office. The independence and integrity of the National Audit Office is a guarantee of professional standards, and in such a comprehensive and complex case as New Rikshospital, the review of the Rikshospital is essential for the Storting to be given a full overview and to draw the necessary conclusions. The main question in this case is how could it happen that the land frame of the New Rikshospital project increased by 25 pst during the construction period and that the cost framework increased by 89 pst. How could it happen that we used almost a decade to build a hospital that was twice as expensive as we thought and that in the area increased from 109 000 m2 to 135 690 m2? The Committee and the Riksrevision fully agree on the answer. Neither the Ministry of Labour nor the Ministry of Administration nor the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has adequately fulfilled their responsibilities. The size has not been sufficiently informed about the problems of plans and budgets, and the various actors with State-owned buildings at the head have not had a sufficient overview of the progress and costs of the project, and the control systems have been neglected. It couldn't be much worse. Even worse, by the way, because this is a game of taxpayers' money that doesn't make the most of trust in people, and many believe that while New Rikshospital could almost roll over in money, without worrying too much about what the Storting had put out of the budget framework, other hospitals have to tighten the savings box every day. In this way, the national hospital case actually challenges the entire political system and decision-making procedures, as well as the confidence in politicians' ability and willingness to keep their own budgets and to have cost management with government projects. It can be concluded quickly that in this case everything that could go wrong went wrong. In return, those responsible receive strong criticism and are left with little honor for their contributions. Fortunately, there is a long time between each time the Storting and the Control Committee deal with matters of this nature, major projects where most things go wrong that can go wrong. Now, of course, you can say that this spring can be seen as evidence of the opposite, since we have also treated the Gardermoban and Fatima. However, I choose to insist that it is more of a coincidence that these matters have been dealt with in the Storting approximately at the same time. On the other hand, the lack of competence and governance that has become more prosperous without the timely intervention of the responsible state councils becomes more focused. It must not develop into an unculture of state-owned construction projects. The lesson is hopefully that government councils and other responsible actors and authorities are more aware of their responsibilities than did in these three major cases, where the billions have been irresponsibly solved. Fortunately, it is still the case that the vast majority of public projects are carried out satisfactorily. It is my hope that the work of the control committee, both through the open hearings and through the critical comments made in the vote, will have such a stimulating effect that, in the future, there will be more between each time we have to deal with matters of the same nature as the New Rikshospital project. Hopefully, the new guidelines for large, state-scale construction projects with increased external quality assurance requirements will work in the same direction. The Committee agrees with all the critical comments made by the Riksrevision in the two reports currently under consideration. This means that both the departments concerned and the state councils, and not least the state buildings, must tolerate and take the consequences of their appointed part of the criticism. I am pleased that, despite some specific comments, the Committee fully agrees on the sustainability of the criticism put forward by the Riksrevision. It is probably not to avoid that the Workers' Party's fraction in particular has felt a certain need to dampen the impression of criticism and to believe that the basis for criticism is not real. However, it does not weaken the impression of large and cross-political consensus on the critical assessments of the National Audit Office. An overall committee is behind the initial comments in the committee setting, and it is a reasonably clear and unambiguous description of the reality. In this context, I refer to column 1 on page 13 of the setting. There is also reason to stress the Committee's clear emphasis on the fact that the Storting itself has a significant part of the responsibility through the changes and extensions undertaken along the way in the construction project. Fortunately, it is not daily that the Storting adopts changes to an already started project, without an overview of the cost of the changes. Unfortunately, that happened in this case. So this house also learns from it. I also notice in retrospect that the changes that Stortinget made were necessary. In this way, there might have been even greater reason for criticism of Stortinget, on another basis, if you hadn't made the changes in time. However, it does not exempt those responsible for neglecting the costs when the Storting decided on the extension of 11 200 m2 in the autumn of 1996. A joint committee stated that the Stortinget was not informed that the 11200 m2 extension was not based on such a sketch project. On the right, it is very critical that the Stortinget was not informed in any way that the State Building did not have a construction programme or sketch project for the cost calculations for the extension adopted in the autumn of 1996. The fact that we have now received a functional and timely national hospital in June 2000 is well and good – although we should perhaps make reservations about it until it is put into use. Trusting State Building in this matter has proved to be reasonably risky! As a summary of the opinion of the Right in this matter, in addition to what has been set out in the joint comments of the Committee, I have to agree with the then chairman of the control committee, Jørgen Kosmo, who said in the day's business on 9 December last that New Rikshospital is a «construction scandal and a health policy scandal». Then there is a cross of thought, but perhaps also a guarantee, that the former committee leader Jørgen Kosmo is now the State Council in the department that he mentioned in the same interview as: ‘When you are left with the impression that the Ministry of Administration has acted as a mailbox, it illustrates how serious this is.’ I have great confidence, and the Right has great confidence, that the Council of State will ensure that the critical remarks of the Control Committee are implemented and learned from both the Ministry and State Building, so that the Ministry can carry out the tasks they are assigned to do on behalf of the Storting. I have full confidence that the Council of State will do that. So when the Labour Party – and Committee Leader – asked for attention from the Kosmo Council of State, I can assure you that the Right and the other bourgeois parties feel that we have the ear of the Council of State. So he sits safely in his department and can implement what the committee has drawn up in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e245	The Central Party does not have a representative on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, but I would like to make some comments on these two issues in connection with the work that has now been done in the Committee and what the Riksrevision has presented. It is true that there are majority decisions behind what has been the basis for the construction and expansion of the Rikshospitale. But there is reason to remember that some of us – and the Center Party in particular – have warned against some of what has happened here. The National Audit Office makes a pretty strong point that the extension of the Rikshospitale was to be seen in connection with the expansion of capacity and the use of the capacity that was in the then health region 2, because the number of beds at the Rikshospitale actually declined in the construction of a new rickshospital, cf. the first extension programme. There is an important point in this study which has not been followed up in the opinion of the National Audit Office and to which the Committee also has some comments. I think it's an accident on the part of the department when you say you didn't have laws and regulations that were about the state going in and checking what happened in the health regions back then. It is probably true that such legislation came during the extension period, in the context of the health plan and in connection with the Special Health Service Act, but then it is ignored that the Rikshospitalet was a regional health hospital for health region 2 and that the Rikshospitalet’s owner and operator is the State of the Ministry of Social and Health. Thus, the department that owns and operates should have had a significant responsibility and an interest in seeing how interaction and development were in health region 2. Then there is also reason to note today that the Center Party said the Rikshospital should not be too large. It should also be seen in the health plans for the Kingdom that there should be a certain level of competence at all regional hospitals and university hospitals in this country, so that one got a distribution and a decentralisation of it. At the time this was stated in the Committee, we from the Central Party felt that there was too much centralisation in the development of the Rikshospitale. We believed that this could go beyond the other regional hospitals, and also that the Rikshospital could have a too large a framework in relation to the mandate it should have, especially in relation to the physical framework that the development had initially taken place. It turned out to be turning on. It's expanded many times by thousands of square meters, and we were right. Another argument put forward by the Central Party in the development of the Rikshospitale and the start of this process was that there should have been closer cooperation between the Rikshospitale and Ullevål on food collection at that level in this region. We thought that the use of the resources would have been better, for example. with medical cooperation. We also pointed out that it should have been this way because of the discussion that we had, and we have had, about babysitting functions at this level. We also believe that the user involvement through the process has been too poor, and refer in particular to the group of rheumatic disorders, which appear to have had a poor influence on the development that has taken place in that field. I'm excited about how it's solved when the new rickshaw hospital comes into operation. It's made a significant point that the Storting didn't have enough information, and we agree with that. I think it is a little sought after when the representative Gunnar Schaug from the Workers' Party compares Stoltenberg and Restad in this process in terms of accountability. What is a reality is that the last major enlargement came in connection with the treatment of the state budget in the autumn of 1996 and was recommended and accepted by a majority on the Stortinget against the votes of the Centerpartie. At the time, we thought that the Rikshospital was large enough, as it was then adopted, with, among other things. medical hotel and with new additions. Among other things, there were various extensions covering a total of more than 15 000 m2 compared to the original project. It went to the intervention centre with increased treatment capacity, it went to offices, it went on expanding the university area and various other extensions. We then said that the Rikshospitalet was large enough, and that it was approx. 125 m2 available for each hospital, and there was far more than any other hospital in this country had. That is why we said we did not agree to this extension, which was then proposed on just over 11,000 m2. What also turned out was that there were not enough cost calculations. It's pointed out by the National Audit Office, and it also ends up with an overall committee. The person with some of the main responsibility for what came of the figures in the spring of 1997 was then Minister of Finance Stoltenberg. I can quote what Gudmund Hernes said at the hearing on April 3rd this year, about what was the basis of the figure: ‘The calculation was not finally carried out in the spring of 1997. What happened instead was that discussions with the Ministry of Finance tried to create a realistic cost framework.’ That is what is at the root of this, and then the Ministry of Finance of the Minister of Finance has to assume a substantial responsibility for the cost framework and the figure that emerged when the Stortinget granted the real amount in the context of the revised national budget in spring 1997. There is also reason to point out that the Ministry and those who have been responsible for the execution have not followed instructions and advice from Stortinget, among others. when the majority of the Social Committee pointed out that there should be a general extension board for the construction project to follow it and which might have led to a certain level of quality assurance and monitoring of the implementation process than we now see it to have been. So it's said by the committee, and I want to comment on it a little bit at the tamp: ‘The Committee considers that if the Storting had not adopted changes and extensions along the way in the construction project, the finished hospital would be of little functionality before it was opened.’ All right. In humility, I admit that there is a lot going on in the medical world and in medical technology and development now, so that we have to change a lot. But at the same time, I have to say that what a collective committee really says here is that it was too bad at first. Because there were some extensions, which, after all, gave room for new technology and recognition that a national hospital should contain functions that it was necessary to include during the March. But if it's right what it says here, that the completed hospital would be "small functional" before it opened – to the degrees that it's down here from an overall committee – I have to say that then also the design and processing of the start-up project was too bad. We must also take that into account in this case. I do not think there is any reason to hound over this matter, but there is reason to remember that it was those who warned during the process and the case, from the first decisions and until we saw the misery, that suddenly it became apparent that there was no control even in the autumn of 1998, when the Rikshospital was only to open a few months later. At least what we have to learn is that we have to have a proper quality assurance prior to landfill treatment, and that there might be external expertise in the process, so that we have a better project at the start and not get all of the recordings we've had here. We have to take inwards that some things have to hang out better than it's done here. Among other things, the Rikshospitalet would be a partner for health region 2 and for the whole of Health Norway in terms of operational functions, and not least perhaps in relation to Ullevål, which is another regional hospital within the same city and municipality. The Rikshospital has developed in the absence of governance and perhaps also in the absence of planning in a way that is unfortunate for public reputation, and also in relation to the development of Health Norway, because it has taken a huge amount of resources that we should not have wasted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e285	I am going to try not to repeat the previous speaker and the case rapporteur has said about the review of the Riksrevision report and the hearings that the Committee has conducted, but have some points for depression that may not have been so well explained. I think, unlike the previous speaker, that the big challenge for the future is not how to create a perfect project for example. a hospital extension, which shall be carried out precisely in that manner and shall be completed exactly in that manner eight years, ten years later. I think the challenge of this is to build, for example. a hospital will have such a development in the medical-technological aspect and in the case of patients' requirements for the functioning of a hospital, that the project needs to be altered in the course of its work. If not, it's not a time-real hospital you're done eight years later. Then is the big challenge: How in the world are you going to do this at the same time as you don't give a construction project a suction pipe into the state register? How can we manage a flexible project at the same time as there is no risk of exceedances in this order of magnitude? What has emerged very clearly during the hearings is that in the beginning, when the Rikshospital was to be built, one had a building project, a house, in the head – i.e. a physical building with beds and a little wires and different things like that – but in the course of the process it turned out that this was not a house or a building in that sense, but a process facility, and that it really did not go completely up for the people who were responsible for the implementation or who were to control it, before the whole thing was to be put together when it was harvested in 1998. Then it was discovered that all these processes did not work, when the scandal became a fact, when the move was still being postponed. And it's in these areas you have to learn to learn later. More hospitals are to be built in this country. The technology is going to be in a raging development, patients' demands, relatives' demands, employees' demands for how a functional hospital should be, are also going to be in the process of being developed. That's what this lesson needs to be put on. So when you're looking at the Rikshospital, it's not the striking luxury and gigantic place that's the most striking. If you, for example, Going into the children's ward, the most striking thing is that there's little space here. In this field, there has been tremendous technological progress, in this field there has been enormous progress in terms of parental demands and the right to be with seriously ill kids, and there would have been a much bigger scandal that it had not been taken into account than it has been done. Therefore, SV believes that this is where the major challenge lies. A central point with regard to the overshooting and modification of the project is that the Storting adopted an extension of the Rikshospitalet in the autumn of 1996. It was then the Danish Health Council that presented this to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget decided with open eyes an extension of the Rikshospital without adopting a cost calculation. It's Storting's responsibility. No one led the Storting behind the light in that context. What lay the council and the Storting on the heart then, was that you had come so far in the construction project that if you didn't put your foot down and decided to expand at that time, it would be more expensive and less expensive to do it later on. Then it's the question of who's responsible for what's gone wrong, and the relationship with the Storting in this project. I believe that the majority of the population and the rapporteur have fallen short of the temptation to significantly base the knowledge factor on when responsibility is to be placed. At an early stage, when the Committee decided who would be invited to the hearings in this case, former finance ministers were not even involved. It came to fruition. I think the majority of the Storting is in danger of making a principle error assessment in relation to responsibility in relation to this type of project. In my opinion, it is quite clear that for the development of the Rikshospitalet it is the former ministers of health and employment and administration who have the primary responsibility. The Ministry of Finance is well within all difficult – yes, both large and small – projects. If you create a constitutional regime that is such that the Ministry of Finance, when it comes to overshootings, gets the primary responsibility for the projects that are actually carried out by other departments, then you can come into a relationship with the Stortinget, which is to make the Ministry of Finance a super-departement and the Minister of Finance a supremely responsible state council. It will devalue the responsibility and power and authority of the other departments, and it will undermine both the authority and the responsibility of other ministers for the information obligation of Stortinget. That's why I'm very interested in knowing what the majority really means. Is it such that the Minister of Finance really has the overall constitutional responsibility for all matters that have been within the Ministry of Finance at some point? It is, in fact, quite essential both for the Storing and the Government to know what the majority of the committee really thinks about this. Is it also the case that the Committee considers seriously what is in a comment in the vote, namely that the coup d'état between State Building and the Ministry of Finance – here about how much money would be allocated to the extension of the Rikshospitale – will be presented to the Stortinget afterwards? That's when the Stortinge will have fun. My work situation is already such that it seems that someone has emptied a container of paper into my office every week, and we strive to get a nose over the edge and get into what is relevant. Is it the case that the majority of the Committee wants the Committee to be made aware of all the dragonfights between the Ministry of Finance and the underlying agencies? In this case, State Building has got exactly what they asked for. They finally received the amount they requested from the Ministry of Finance. And if I know the Ministry of Finance correctly – and I have a pretty good insight into it afterwards – the Ministry of Finance is always running this way. They're always trying to fart. They should have tried at the base in Marrakech or anywhere, they would have done it brilliantly. Of course – it's kind of a finance department's job. But I am not interested in getting dunked with documentation about these dragonfights, and especially not when the underlying department has received the amount they requested. What had been interesting at this point was that Stortinget was informed that there was no draft project when the grant was made. That's what SV thinks. But it is unreasonable to say that it would be decisive for the case, because the decisive moment of decision in the Storting was not in the context of the revision in 1997, it was in the autumn of 1996, and so the Storting decided on an extension with open eyes that they did not know what the cost was. I would like to invite the majority of the committee to take some fundamental considerations on what the majority's comments can give in the future in relation to the relationship between ministries, in terms of what kind of comprehensive information the Storting will have and the reason why the majority in their remarks gives the Minister of Finance the primary responsibility, because that is what we need to read. The strongest use of language and the most extensive review is directed at the Ministry of Finance, while it would have been more reasonable for the former ministers of health and labour and administration to take responsibility for the scandal that the construction of the Rikshospitale has taken place. Now, however, I believe that we have come to the point that we should not allow the scandal to hang at the Rikshospital for the future. I think we've got a time-real government hospital. We know that the background for the many draw battles that have been on the Rikshospitale has been political disagreement, also internally in the parties in the Stortinget and between the centre and the periphery. One was afraid to get a national hospital that was too large, which was too big a magnet for specialists from all over the country. There is also a background to the difficulty of planning the Rikshospital in detail from the time the decision was taken until the final Rikshospital was there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e311	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e314	The whitewashing of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who was the Minister of Finance when the decisions were taken, which the Workers' Party and SV are trying to do, I do not think at all relevant. Based on the legislation we have to deal with, and based on the information that Stortinget has received on this major and important project, it is a fact after what has been obtained in the hearings we have had and through the information we have received, that after the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health had been responsible, after the Ministry of Labour and Administration had responsibility for the follow-up to Statsbyggen, it was the Ministry of Finance that overthrew these departments and made the final decision. I have never doubted that Stortinget has taken a decision on the extension of the New Rikshospital project along the way. The Stortinget has done it with open eyes. So that's not what's going on. But the responsibility must be placed where responsibility is to be placed, and then it is a fact that then Minister of Finance Jens Stoltenberg had a responsibility to inform the Stortinget and the various committees that there was no construction programme, and that there were no plans that made it possible to implement it in the way we have now seen in the past. The way in which Minister of Finance Restad and then Minister of Finance Jens Stoltenberg handled the matter is compared. Then it is in its place what the Riksrevision pointed out in its report, that the decisions taken in 1996 are one of the most important and decisive factors for this project to come out of the line we were supposed to have in the project, and the lack of overview. It's a fact, although the Workers' Party and SV don't like it. The conclusion is that everything that has gone wrong has gone wrong. Too little, too late and too expensive is the fasitism of the new rickshaw hospital. Then we're not going to get sung in the glory of the Progress Party that we initially said we would have a much bigger Reich Hospital than it was. The enlargements that the majority subsequently needed to adapt to other functions that the new National Hospital had to have if it were to become a future-oriented hospital, we agree. We were the leaders. We wanted to have it bigger initially. But it's a fact that the Rikshospital has not yet moved in today, and a fact that one has used too much money and resources. This can be proved graphically by, for example, These bear fig trees, one of which had to be bought from in the United States, were sent there by heavy delegations. At the same time, one has too small feeding rooms, and too small for children and parents to come together. This shows that it has not been controlled. In addition, when there have been more than 170 – 180 different company prices inside the picture, it is clear that this has been wrong. But anyone who has been involved must take responsibility. Even Jens Stoltenberg must do so as then Minister of Finance, even though he is Prime Minister today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e327	The new national hospital is now finally being used, and it seems to be a good hospital for patients and health professionals. But the construction process has taken too long, and the price has become too high in relation to the assumptions made by the Storting. In ten years the hospital was nearly 30,000 m2 larger and twice as expensive. That is the starting point for the debate we have today. The core questions are: what can we learn from this way the construction process has been carried out in order to avoid similar scandals in the future? How can we avoid future, major hospital projects coming out of control in this way? How can we ensure that the development of e.g. Is RIT 2000 the same as the Rikshospitale? This debate has to a large extent been about State Building and the responsibility of the departments involved to ensure that things worked out. The criticism that has been raised is well justified and absolute in its place. But it is also necessary to focus a critical searchlight on the role of Storting in this matter. The right has, from the start, criticised the majority for adopting a project that was clearly too small. The consequence of this was a number of extensions of the project in the course of the process. I am not in doubt that the expansion of the Storting along the way has made it more difficult to keep the framework in terms of time and not least costs. The current Minister of Administration, Jørgen Kosmo, pointed this out in the evening post last August 4th, where he says that: ‘Gallopping cost excesses could have been avoided if the Stortinget had already decided in 1992 to build a new national hospital that was large enough and adapted to the needs of the hospital’. I am not saying this to exempt neither State Building nor changing health and administration ministers who have been responsible for this project. But I take this up to stress the importance of the fact that there are well-worked and, not least, realistic plans that must underpin the decisions taken by the Stortinget in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e341	I have some comments on some articles that have been kept here. The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, said, among other things: that she did not want to ‘fix the finished project’ as I described it. I also do not want a project that is so rigid and sterile that there is no possibility of flexibility and in-flight assessments, but at least it must be such that, more than in the case of the Rikshospitalet, it is better to see the context, that one sees the interaction between this project and the outside world, that one also ensures that the functions are coordinated and coordinated along the way, and that it is an overall responsibility for implementation and delivery. It's of the things that I think it's important to take as lessons now, so that you have quality assured a part of what's going to happen during the project. Among other things, this construction project is characterised by the fact that the construction itself was not well coordinated and coordinated with installations of technical equipment and medical-technical equipment, and that we were involved in this. In terms of capacity and view of size, we have a slightly different view there, which I referred to in my main post. I am also pleased that we are getting a new national hospital, which is hopefully very well functional and has the qualities that a national hospital and a regional hospital should have, but we already see that there is too little consistency between the needs we have, and as it has become and as it has spent a lot of money on. E.g. the Children’s Department is already too small in the first place. So back to this with responsibility for economics. I am not looking for a knowledge factor when I focus on what happened in the Ministry of Finance in 1996-1997. When the Stortinget was invited to make the extension decision in autumn 1996, we had no cost calculations. It was postponed to the examination of the revised national budget in the spring of 1997. But even then it did not have a sketch program for the economy. That's what I think is reprehensible. When Minister of Health Gudmund Hernes says that it was after discussions with the Ministry of Finance that an attempt was made to create a realistic estimate of costs and a cost framework, it is clear that the Ministry of Finance and the then Minister of Finance Jens Stoltenberg have a special responsibility for the figures that emerged. And then it is more than sought to compare finance ministers in different phases and specifically mention the name Jens Stoltenberg versus Gudmund Restad in this context. It was Jens Stoltenberg who was responsible at the time when this was presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e350	The size now deals with the whole construction of a new rickshospital. There is no doubt that former Minister of Finance Jens Stoltenberg is responsible for what was presented to the Stortinget in connection with the revised national budget in 1997. There is no doubt that the entire Committee wanted a draft project to be presented in this context, or that it was at least informed that there was no draft project in place. But there will be a wrong dimensioning of the criticism when it comes to the temptation to lay the main responsibility for the development and the mistakes made during the development of a new national hospital, at the Ministry of Finance, because it was thus Minister of Health Hernes who presented the case in 1996 – who invited the Stortinget to take a decision without a cost estimate. So it's about the proportions in the criticism and the dimensioning of the criticism, and it's not just about the Rikshospitale, but it also has to do with what kind of leadership this gives for the future. And that's where I'm very concerned, because I think that if you base the majority of the committee's considerations here, you make a new -- what to say -- constitutional practice or assessment practice on the ministry that makes the Ministry of Finance a department. It will also have an impact on the status of the Storting and the status of the Storting Committees, because it would deprive the Storting Committee of its committees, which relate to other departments, responsibilities, power and authority. So we can stand by strengthening a process, which I have witnessed for many years in Stortinget, where the Ministry of Finance becomes a kind of department and the Finance Committee a kind of overcommittee in Stortinget. And that's going to be wrong, to my conviction. There will be errors in SV’s convictions, because it devalues the job done in other committees and other departments, and it squanders responsibility away from those who are also responsible for what is being presented to Stortinget. That's why this is a principle matter, and that's why I want to challenge the majority once again as to whether it's the kind of leadership they want to give in the past. I also want to get an answer to what I have asked about earlier: is it the case that the majority in Stortinget wants to be presented with all the drawdowns between the Ministry of Finance and the underlying agencies on decisions that we are going to make in Stortinget? Then I just think that we have to chop everything we can to get enough paper for what is to be presented, and we're going to try to avoid drowning as much as we can. This is not effective. It is equally difficult to control that the Storting should present what is relevant and that, in many contexts, the Storing is at risk of drowning.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e359	Yes, SV and Mrs. Halvorsen are coming back and are going to challenge the majority. But it is not the majority in this case that will change the legislation we have with regard to placing responsibility with the government and the various state councils. I just want to remind you of what is stated in the letter from the Prime Minister's office dated 25 May 1981, in paragraph 3: ‘The Minister of Finance has a constitutional responsibility for errors and omissions that can be returned to the Ministry of Finance’s own handling of the construction business.’ What has happened in this case? What has happened is that the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Planning when it was established and Rugaas came in and also got a responsibility when it came to the project New Rikshospital, could not agree with Stadsbyg because there were no draft projects and construction plans and the economy in this was not clear. Who then explained this? Yes, it was the Ministry of Finance with the Minister of Finance. And then the Minister of Finance has a constitutional responsibility for the decisions taken by the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. And that's what we're dealing with today. That's why the majority will not change practice, but it's Mrs. Halvorsen and SV who will. Then the challenge is rather: how will SV do this? They can't do that by going away from everything that we've agreed on before, that's built up over decades. I will, as I did in my main post, refer to Document No. 7 for 1972-73 point 4.2. Constitutional responsibility of the Councils for decisions taken by others — if there are now others who have taken these decisions — on page 16, where it states: ‘A State Council may be primarily responsible for the decisions it takes as a member of the Government or as a Head of Department. But he can also be responsible for decisions, etc. taken by others.’ The Ministry of Finance played a central role in the development and decisions taken in 1996. The hearings we have had, the various previous government councils have come up with, namely that it was the Ministry of Finance that took responsibility and dialogue with Statsbyggen, confirms that the then Minister of Finance Jens Stoltenberg was responsible. That's the way it has to be, we can't change it. It has nothing to do with the familiarity factor. But as I have mentioned before, it seems that the SV and the Workers' Party in this matter are doing what they can to whitewash the current Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who was Minister of Finance at the time. And that's what we think we're going to be too good to do, because here we have to look at the reality and the content of the matter – and that's what the majority of this case has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e376	The word was spoken twice and given the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e379	The representative, Halvorsen, asked the other parties a question about who should be responsible, and if you wanted a Ministry of Finance. We certainly will not. I think I've been ready, even in my first post, that there are more people who are responsible here. It's the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, it's the Ministry of Labour and Administration, it's State Building, it's also partly the Stortinget, and it's the Ministry of Finance. My focus on this is, among other things, As a result of the last crack in the 1996 enlargement, where there was no cost calculation and where they did not even have a sketch and a real figure to provide in the course of the review in spring 1997. Then this was further focused on my part because the Workers' Party spokesman tried a diversion by comparing Stoltenberg with other finance ministers who have nothing to do with this. The coordinating responsibility lies with the Prime Minister's office, among others. in the case of legislation and regulations, and I absolutely do not want the Ministry of Finance to be the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e384	I now take the floor on the back of this debate, in particular from the speeches made by the last speaker, to refer to the two reports of the Riksrevision. What I would like to stress and also remind Ola D. Glötvold of is that in the two reports there is absolutely no criticism of the Ministry of Finance regarding the condition of the matter that has now been debated. I also think that there is reason to be aware of the civil parties, which have stressed the role of the Ministry of Finance. I have also registered that it is only Vidar Kleppe who has stressed this matter on behalf of this majority, which in my opinion has been most unnecessary in connection with an overall picture of what the Storting must decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e389	The committee setting is there. What the bourgeois parties have said in this matter remains with the bourgeois parties. There is also a criticism by the Minister of Finance of the lack of information for the Stortinget. It is clear that one of the open consultations has made it clear that it was the Ministry of Finance that, following a discussion with State Building, decided on the cost framework for enlargement in 1996. It is true that the Riksrevision report did not show up, but we did not realize that until we started at the hearings and the committee actually found out that there were also some letters that were outside the public – something that the committee was not familiar with and that made this case go further. And it's a goal with the hearings that we should get better information and get involved. So that's the basis for that. The description of the views of the Workers' Party on the case by the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Schaug, may be correct. But the Labour Party has had the same view on the matter all along, namely that the Minister of Finance has nothing to do with this, no matter what documentation and whatever has come out of the hearings. So there's nothing new for the majority. But when the majority gets information and new information, then it's an obligation for us as depositors to take it inwards and continue it in the work we're going to do in the light of the two reports of the National Audit Office. When you also look at what has been said and said during the hearings – including from people who have worked in the departments – that this was a very special procedure, it is clear that we need to follow this up. We have been informed in draft budget proposals and in draft budgets for various committees that the status of the construction project, in terms of design and construction, is in line with plans and budgets. In St. prp. No 1 for 1997-98, it is even said that they aim to make use of most of the hospital in the autumn of 1998. And when we got as far as 1998, everything was clapping and clearly one and a half months before moving in. Per. the current date, even if the main move has taken place, not everything is in place. So it shows that those who have to take responsibility, they will take responsibility, and that is our duty through our treatment to find out. I just hope that now it comes on the rails up there, before the fall and winter set in, and that they get up the temperature so no sick people freeze more than necessary, because it has actually been a problem that you have not got up the temperature in the new national hospital at a level that is professionally sound. I hope and expect the Minister of Health and the Government to get ahead of this before the cold sets in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e400	The representative Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e403	I am very pleased that the representative of Lutvold has at least understood the point in what I have tried to say here today, because it is about dimensioning the criticism and about where responsibility, the main responsibility and the partial responsibility should be laid. There is no doubt that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the Ministry of Finance in the context of the revised national budget in 1997, but there is no doubt that the Stortinget with open eyes and on the basis of a roll-out proposal from the then Danish Councillor Hernes adopted this extension, which later became animal. This is not about caring for Jens Stoltenberg – he can take care of himself, and I don't have much care for him. This is about the Size and the relation between the Magnificence and the Government of the post-war period. For those who are criticized in strict order in this position, therefore, is a former Minister of Finance. And it is said correctly that he has not fulfilled his responsibilities with regard to information that there was no building program available, etc. Those are strong words from Stortinget’s side – it’s almost a mistrust formulation. If there was something ‘good’ about the majority, they would have taken the consequences of such a strong criticism. You're on wild roads in the dimensioning of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e410	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3437]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e424	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 15 minutes, and the other groups 10 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replication of the individual posts, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is regarded as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e433	The issue we are dealing with today is another transport project that has become much, much more expensive than planned. Fatima, an abbreviation for the mainland link to Magerøya, includes both the honeycomb tunnel, Kobbholet or Veidnes bridge, the North Cape tunnel and current sections, a large project – one of the most extensive road project Vegvesenet has carried out under similar climatic conditions. The National Auditorate has also done a thorough job in this case in relation to this. It has become a great facility, but it has also cost money – a lot of money! The project was presented by former transport minister Kjell Opseth, and was estimated at 625 million. 1993-krona. The final sum was 1018 million. 1993-krona. The percentage exceedance is total 62.9 pst. What we should ask ourselves today is, why did the project become so much more expensive, and could this in any way have been avoided? In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it should be possible to avoid such exceedances. Very much indicates that the project was not well planned. The size must be able to rely on the projects submitted to it by the Ministry and the individual State Council. The Committee has carried out an in-depth examination of this matter. We believe that this was necessary on the basis of the nature of the matter. The Committee has been on both an inspection and an open hearing on the Fatima project. One can be certain that the majority of the Committee is not satisfied with the manner in which the matter has been dealt with by the Ministry. The project had exceedances of 62.9 pst. in addition to the cost framework underlying the treatment of the Storting, far beyond the main level of uncertainty, which has an uncertainty of plus/minus 25 pst, or at the level of detail with an uncertainty of plus/minus 10 pst. In fact, the majority of the Committee considers that the matter had not reached either the level of the master plan or the level of detail when the Stortinge case was brought before it. This means that the Stortinget did not think the matter was well prepared. The majority also believe that it may seem that the department has not provided the Stortinget with sufficient and good information on the matter. This may sound harmless, but is a strong criticism of the then Council of State. The Committee believes it would have been natural that the matter had been brought before the Stortinge in a different way than only in the budget proposals when the exceedances became so great, and that it would have been natural to take up the development of a separate case for the Stortinge. The Committee has examined the project in its comments and indicates that the maximum percentage exceedances are related to the honeycomb tunnel with a total of 98,1 pst., copper bridge with 128,9 pst. and road Kobolla – Great Bay of 80.9 pst. It's a lot of exceedances. This is what we're talking about. The total amount of the project was over NOK 1 billion. It is not unlikely that the project would not have been adopted if it had been submitted with the real cost framework when the Stortinget decided on this development. In fact, a smaller part of the toll project is being financed — but it is society’s means that it is at the end of the day. Majority policy-makers have a responsibility to manage society’s resources in the best possible way. We are not able to do that when the costs become so much higher than the calculations the Stortinge took into account when a decision was taken. It is a major problem for Stortinget that transport projects with large exceedances are still emerging. For example, the Monitoring Committee: treated North Hordlandsbrua, formerly Salhusbrua, Gardermobanen and now Fatima. This will be great if this is the last transport project with large exceedances – new exceedances are, unfortunately, to be expected. The Committee has no reason to assume that the Road Directorate deliberately calculated too small amounts for the adoption of the project, but no one can be surprised that such claims appear at regular intervals. If you have started a project first, it takes a lot more to stop it, especially where tunnels are being blasted out and bridges are being built. The Committee has underlined the importance of presenting the Stortinget with good and timely projects with realistic cost frameworks. The Ministry has launched measures to improve the quality of planning bases, cost estimates and financial management. Hopefully, this will help to ensure a realistic cost estimate so that we can avoid the large exceedances in future projects. The kind of planning we see in the Fatima project, we're not served. The Minister for Transport at that time should have carried out a better cost analysis of the plant. This is a criticism of the Committee. It is important to use reason when creating and carrying out road projects like this. A majority of the Committee questions the rationale and usefulness of building a one-way and cycle path, which is not separated from the road, in a tunnel of a length of a length of 4,4 km. I ask myself how many parents there really are who will send their children – walking or cycling – through a tunnel that is so long, and how much of the traffic consists of large tourist buses that thunder past. When we also know that there are almost no people living in the area, and where a smaller building area is planned at the height, the matter and priorities just get even more strange. There is a basis for asking whether this extension came into the project at random and on the basis of the principle: if it does, it will. That the Kobholet bridge from the start was not designed to withstand enough wave and wind load at the same time, nor can it be good craftsmanship. The feature of the line at Storbukt was changed because it was not proper to start up the work again in a scheduled clock, and because one could not put the line between any Esso tanks. It should have been possible to detect this from the beginning and to introduce these changes to the project before it was submitted to Stortinget. The Committee is also very critical that the construction plans are dated up to one year after the work on the various parcels started. Without a planning basis, the potential for defaults increases, in turn increasing the potential for higher costs. The Directorate of Roads has informed that the Ministry of Transport and the Minister were not aware of the uncertainty in the estimate for the project. At this point, however, there can be no confusion and uncertainty about the responsibilities between the department and the underlying offices. It is important to maintain that it is the Council of State that has the formal responsibility of the Stortinge to have full information on the projects submitted to the Stortinge. The Committee considers that the sample to review the control tasks of the size committee should address these issues. The Committee is not in doubt that the constitutional responsibility for the disclosure of information to the Stortinget in connection with St.prp. No 47 for 1992-93 has been observed, lies with the then state council Kjell Opseth. The Committee has strongly criticised the examination of the case by the Council of State, but the majority have not considered it appropriate to set up a Protocol Committee to prepare for a national court case, as proposed by the Progress Party. The Committee points out that it has previously dealt with other transport projects which have had so much exceedances, without the fact that national law has been an appropriate alternative. I have noted the introductory remarks of the Labour Party, where the members stress that ‘not all criticisms obtained are equally critical’. Finally, I must inform you that a cost estimate that we have been updated by the Ministry of Transport has unfortunately not been included in the printed version. In the end, I would recommend the Riksrevision's proposal for annotation «Can pass».
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e484	After several years of investigation and planning, the Fatima project was proposed in St.meld. No 32 for 1988-89, Norwegian road and road transport plan 1990-93. The size decided to extend the mainland link to Magerøy on 28 May 1993 in the light of St.prp. No 47 for 1992-93. The project was then adopted by 88 votes to 14. It is important to point out today that the arguments advanced against the project at the time concerned lack of profitability and not lack of information. It came in St. prp. No 47 also made it clear that the Fatima project had a low cost-benefit ratio compared to an improved ferry service. The purpose of the Committee is not to assess the appropriateness of the various decisions of the Grand Duchy nor, therefore, the rationale of the decision of the Grand Duchy on 28 May 1993. The Fatima project is a result of a political priority, with a crucial focus on the fact that Nordkap was designated as a national tourism area. The project was unanimously adopted by local government and county council. There was considerable pressure from local teams due to the resource crisis in fisheries and high unemployment. This also weighed heavily in the decision on the Fatima project. When the Supervisory and Constituent Committee decided to treat Fatima as its own case, this had its background in substantial changes in the project and in the economic estimates after the Storting had taken a decision in the case. It is critical when the estimate of costs broke by 62,9 p.m. This is an exceedance that goes far beyond the uncertainty of plus/minus 25 pst. which is likely to be linked to projects submitted at the level of the master. The fact that the Workers' Party does not support the observation that ‘main-level uncertainty shall be set at +/25 pst., while at the level of detail an uncertainty of +/ 10 pst.’ is due to the fact that there is no requirement for the uncertainty to be set at 25 pst. at the level of the master. In other words, we cannot refer to a rule that does not exist. For example, the uncertainty with regard to the Hardangerbrua and the Triangular Link Sveio-Stord-Bømlo projects was also on plus/minus 10 pst. The other members of the Committee have obviously not taken this fact into account. Having said that, I would say that the Workers' Party is of the opinion that the experience of a number of transport projects where the cost framework has exploded suggests that the uncertainty should be set at 25 pst. at the level of the master. Another element that should be considered for the future is when the Storting should take binding decisions in a project. Some experience from projects that have gone beyond the cost framework may indicate that the Storting should take binding decisions at a later stage in the design process. However, some aspects of the Fatima project were impossible to predict in the design. This is particularly true of the North Cape tunnel, where geological conditions were different from those shown in the pilot studies. According to the Ministry of Transport, it is very difficult to distinguish which extra costs are a direct consequence of geological conditions. To the extent that this can be estimated for the various parts of the project, the following results have been calculated by the Ministry of Transport in 1993-krone: the honey wave tunnel 76 million. SEK, North Cape Tunnel 157 million. SEK, Kåfjord-Westerpollen 20 million. kr, Veidnes-Alfbaklia 14 mill. NOK 15 million and share of total expenditure. SEK – a total of 282 million. kr. This is 72 pst. of the total cost excess of 393,3 million. 1993-krona. With regard to the final economic accounts of the project, this is not yet clear, as all costs are not settled. A final financial report for the project has not yet been prepared, and that report will show what the funds have been used for and what tasks have required large resources. It is important that the final financial report is presented to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. Another point that is given some attention in the Committee's comments is the extension of the honeycomb tunnel from 8 to 9 metres in order to make the route and cycle path. This was done after the Storting had taken a decision on the matter. I am pleased that the rapporteur presented the information that the excess costs resulting from the additional cost of that extension have actually emerged, even though the Committee's comments show that they have not been presented, which he deplored. So then I'm going to leave that case, and I guess we're going to change it. Several have subsequently made a critical economic approach to the adoption of mainland connections rather than enhanced ferry services. With the excesses we've seen in retrospect, it's easy to question the utility of the project in relation to the costs that society has incurred. The task of the Committee has been to monitor the implementation of the project itself and not the decision on the project itself. The Fatima case raises two fundamentally important questions. The first is when the Storting must be considered to have assumed responsibility for the actions in question. In this case, through the annual budget proposals, the Stortinget was kept continuously informed of the development of the construction project. In St. prp. No 1 for 1997-98, for example details of exceedances in the order of 43 pst. or 281 million. kr. No comments were made during the proceedings of the bodies of the Grand Duchy and the necessary decisions were taken. It was only when, in its comments on the national accounts for 1998, the Riksrevision concluded that the national law discussion was triggered. The second question concerns the disclosure obligation of a Council of State. This is a difficult topic in many ways. The obligation to provide information has been the dominant basis for parliamentary criticism. It is not serious in the actions that have been taken, but whether the Storting has been informed along the way, which becomes the main theme. The question of what information the Storting should have will be a discretionary theme. A danger by requiring detailed information is that the size is overread by documents of a more or less relevant nature. It is very easy in retrospect to find information that could have been claimed to have been promoted for Stortinget. It's easy to do in retrospect. It would be dangerous if, in every case, individual information were to be provided to the Storting and criticised by the Council of State for not being so. Maintaining the principle of disclosure and not complying with the obligation to provide information is a frantic balance. It is an important discussion theme for Stortinget. The way in which the Storting should handle the disclosure obligations of the Council of State in relation to the Storting should be discussed further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e528	I want to start with a statement. The claim is that if the Storting i St.prp. No 47 for 1992-93 had gained knowledge of the costs of the Fatima project in the context of the uncertainty that should have occurred, the Stortinget would not have agreed to the implementation and implementation. It is then claimed that the Stortinget had received correct information, we would have saved 1000 million. kr! When Stortinget i St.prp. No 47 did not receive sound evidence — and the criticism from the entire committee demonstrates that it is correct, there is a massive criticism of the project and the lack of information in St.prp. No 47 – is the question asked: is this supposed to have any consequences for those responsible? Or is it the case that regardless of whether you spend 1 billion kroner in public due to a lack of work, there should never be anyone who is held responsible, or who is judged to be responsible? I don't think it can be like this. We have in very many laws provisions for different occupational groups, which result in both criminal and possibly financial liability if there are errors of a certain category, and we have regular legal cases, often against – I would say – the small ones in society. Let me take a close example: we have criminal reactions to people who – negligently – are hurting to drive on others in car traffic. We also have examples that someone has run over to the red light, and yet this has led to reactions to the driver who was in good faith and drove on green. And that's in economic terms talking about much less than $1,000 million. kr resulting in reactions. That's an important point for us. In our legislation, we also have rules of liability that apply to state councils. Section 10 of the Liability Act states: «By fines or penalties of up to 2 years' duration, a member of the Government who causes or contributes to the misuse or misappropriation of the property or other resources of the State or who otherwise manifests negligence or negligence in his activities shall be punished.» A fundamental principle of our constitutional system is that governments and state councils have the duty to ensure that when they invite the Stortninget to make decisions, the Stortinget will be presented with a sound case-law, a proper review of both what speaks for the Council of State's proposals and what speaks against the Council of State's proposals. It's fundamental in our administration, that's why the Storting doesn't have a staff of a lot of hundreds of people to test and verify the truth and the soundness of the cause of the Storing that we get from the Government. In the present case, there has been a cost increase of about 60 pst. in relation to what was presented in St. Prp. No 47. The National Auditorate, who has gone through this carefully, has very critical comments and the strictest setting to desision. We in the Progress Party believe that this is not enough because, as far as all other laws and regulations are concerned, there may be situations where you give, let's say, warnings, but if there are several cases, you have to finally – and I admit it – make an example and say that this is not acceptable, that this cannot pass. As the rapporteur said, we have had a number of things from the Ministry of Transport that have led to very serious criticism, and so here we have come to the conclusion that we will go a little further. I want to include the suggestions in the setting. We want it to be for once that we should decide whether to assert constitutional responsibility to the former Council of State Kjell Opseth, who has the constitutional responsibility for the defective, faulty and misleading process in St. Prop. 47, where you actually said that the uncertainty is plus/minus 10 pst. The truth was that it in the document was actually plus/minus 25 pst., while in the real world it was a fraction of 60 pst. Paragraph 14(a) of the Rules of Procedure states that: ‘If it becomes necessary for the Odelstinget to decide whether constitutional liability should be invoked against any, the Odelstinget shall appoint a Protocol Committee from among its members, after being nominated by the Electoral Committee, to deal with the matter and to give a vote on the Odelstinget.’; We will propose that such a Protocol Committee be set up in the present case to decide and to refer to the Odel Sting whether or not a national appeal should be brought. I am aware that there are many who have some problems with the nuances, which are sometimes very important, also in the present case. This does not mean that the Progress Party has concluded that it is to be sued for national law. In another context, such a Protocol Committee is to be regarded as a notification to the Public Prosecutor to carry out the necessary investigation and assessment of the facts of the case in relation to the law. We assume that a protocol committee would acquire the necessary expertise – I am thinking of someone with experience or leave from a state attorney's office, some from investigation, from the police – just to get people who have experience and knowledge of bringing a case's facts to the table through investigation and interrogation, which is quite different from an open hearing. Interviews have other rights to do, to collect evidence, to clarify the facts, and then to assess whether this is the context of the legal provisions. That is the technical work for which we would like assistance in such a protocol committee. In a way, I understand others in the committee who share our criticism there that there is a lot of evidence that it is the Road Directorate and the Road Administration that have done inadequate work, and that there is some sort of excuse for the Council of State. That is when the entire constitutional system is put on the agenda, where the Council of State is also responsible for the mistakes made by the government and the underlying agencies. It is possible that we should have a debate on whether it is right for a Council of State to be held liable for criminal liability for errors committed by others. But then we have to do it in a constitutional context. And until you change it, it's that the Council of State, through negligence or inadequacy of work and demands for its subordinate and underlying agencies, has the constitutional responsibility. I therefore find it disappointing that when it is clear that it has been wasted 1 billion kroner, which would not have been used if the Stortinget had been presented with the sound basic document, it is only we who react that now it must be the end of the difference between Jørgen hatmaker and King Solomon, as it has been for too long. It is therefore disappointing that so far others have not given any signal to support our proposal for a protocol committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e568	Carl. I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e571	When a road and tunnel project looked at the degrees cracking that Fatima did, there is every reason to go both the project and those responsible, closer to the seams. The ruling of the Control Committee is unambiguous: this is not an objective. All parties, including the Workers' Party, are criticizing both the head of the road in Finnmark, the Road Directorate and the then Minister for Transport Kjell Opseth. The national audit has dismissed the case with ‘Can pass’. Stronger criticism does not disburse the Riksrevision, and the Right joins the Riksrevision's recommendation. In the vote, the Control Committee answers the main question, namely how Fatima, costing 625 million. 1993 bills, could end up with a final bill of 1,008 million. kr. How can geologists, engineers and other presumptuously qualified people in the Ministry of Transport, in the Directorate of Roads and at the head of the road in Finnmark then make mistakes? The answer is partly unpredictable geology, especially in the North Cape tunnel – and for that very reason we can give the Council of State absolution. However, very poor planning and implementation by the Road Directorate and the Road Office in Finnmark still have to bear the primary responsibility for Fatima becoming a scandalous project financially. Even I voted and spoke for Fatima in 1993, but I had not in my wildest imagination thought that the Stortinge treated such a badly prepared case. It is reasonably high cost that the Fatima plant was charged high extra costs because some oil tanks that had been standing for years, well visible to most people, were first discovered by the road manager when the plant was started. It is alarming that the honeycomb tunnel was expanded in width because no one had thought in advance that people in the residential area on the other side of the mountain would walk and cycle through the tunnel. It is nothing less than incomprehensible that the head of the road in Finnmark during the planning of the Kobholet bridge did not think that the combination of strong wind and large waves is a quite common touch on bridges on the Finnmark coast. It is by no means better that the three roadways were so poorly planned that they were from 37 pst. to 81 pst. more expensive than assumed, a total of 59 million. 1993-krone is more expensive than that presented to the Grand Duchy, and roads are the primary task of the Road Administration. The size was benevolent when it came to giving the people of Magerea fixed connections, but I'm afraid that the majority could have voted no if the Storting had assumed that the costs were going to break by 62,9 p.m., or 393,3 million. 1993-krona. In the right there were shared opinions about the project, which was also made clear when the Stortinget dealt with Fatima on 28 May 1993. What kind of saves the council and the directorate from being accused of deliberately misleading the Storting is that the Road Directorate in St.prp. 47 for 1992-93 called for a reinforced ferry service rather than a continental service. For the Right, we do not believe that it has been sufficiently demonstrated that the Council of State in this matter may have violated the Liability Act. We therefore do not support the proposal of the Progress Party to ask the Odelstinget to set up a Protocol Committee to prepare a possible national action against the former Opseth Government Council. I do not argue against the assessment of the Progress Party, but justify the Right conclusion, which has then become different. In the opinion of the Court, strategic budgeting cannot be demonstrated in order to obtain a specific decision in this case. However, this does not prevent the relatively broad pen to be established afterwards that the road authorities, and therefore the overall authority of the Ministry of Transport, bear the responsibility for a very poor, even almost scandalously poorly prepared and implemented project. However, poor case preparation and poor work do not in themselves trigger national law. National law is a court that has to deal with strict debt criteria, and we do not believe that this case qualifies for the preparation of national law. Of course, the right is determined by the principle that a Council of State has the constitutional responsibility for incorrect, deficient or misleading case submissions for the Storting, but in this case we have drawn the conclusion that preparation for national law is not the correct form of reaction from the Storting. That does not mean that we express confidence in the then state council in this matter, rather on the contrary. I am pleased that both the Riksrevision and a total increase are going to show that this is a development and a project that must not be a school for the future. I assume that the clear signals and the clear decisions that have come from Stortinget in several cases have made it possible for the ministry now to be fully reviewed in such a way as to avoid having to repeat such debates in the future. It's not sustainable, and I assume that the Council of State will take along, whether it's the head of the road in Finnmark or the head of road in other counties, to the Directorate of Road and to his own people in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e604	There is no doubt that this is a very serious matter. It is a matter that has received considerable criticism from the National Audit Office, and it is a matter where the majority of the population and, in part, the entire Committee support the criticism directed at the Ministry of Transport and the road authorities for the implementation of the project, and for the decision-making basis of the Stortinget. It is clear that the decision-making base of the Stortinget at the time the decision to extend the Fatima project in 1993 had come so short in preparation that it had not even reached a master plan level. When the exceedances become 63 p.m., it is not only something that the committee has suggested, that this was the case; it is also something that has emerged during the hearings and during the self-criticism of the road director during the rounds, that the project was presented at an early stage and was too poorly investigated. Before the committee went into the matter itself and was on an inspection, we had the same impression that applied to the public, that it was primarily the underwater tunnel – that is, the new one in the project, that there had never been built an underwater tunnel so far north before – which was the reason for the excess costs. But it turns out there have been significant exceedances on all parts of the project. Some of the exceedances are due to changes in the project along the way, and decisions are taken not by the Ministry of Transport but by the Directorate of Roads. Of course, you can wonder if this project would have been adopted if you had a cost estimate of NOK 3 billion. when Stortingen dealt with this matter. What has been SV's concern in this matter is that such a gigantic road project in one place in Finnmark had to go at the expense of other important road tasks in the same county. That was the discussion in 1993. It has also been confirmed in the hearings that not only the project itself and the cost estimate of 625 million. kr which was then adopted, but also the ex post exceedances have taken place at the expense of other necessary road projects in Finnmark. And Finnmark is a state with significant needs on the roadside. There are many winter roads that are not open, there are racial protection needs and many other road tasks that are significant. Nor is it to hide that there was a drag fight in the SV's own big group about this project. It could be that if it had been provided with a cost framework of 800 million. kr, as it appeared in the hearing that the price tag could have been if the project had been assessed at a more sound stage, it would have been what had tipped our decision, with concern for other road projects. Of course, we should have in mind the situation in Finnmark in the years before this project was adopted. There had been a crisis in the north, there was considerable interest and attention around it to have some major national bets in the county, and there were considerable symbols around it just to get something big and monumental going on. It doesn't look so monumental, but what's below the ground is monumental. It was also a signal to bet on Finnmark. This case raises quite a number of rather difficult constitutional questions. The thing is, of course, it's the Minister of Transport who has the constitutional responsibility for what's being presented to the Stortinge to decide. But it is also true that consultations have shown that it is the Directorate of Roads that has taken full responsibility for the cost estimate presented, and that it is not common, nor has it been possible for the Ministry of Transport to go through the cost estimates provided by the Directorate of Roads. The assessment of the place of responsibility for the exceedances is then based on what assessments the Storting must make in relation to the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Transport who has the constitutional responsibility. The size can be criticised by the Directorate of Roads, but you can, for example: Don't quit anyone from Stortinget's pulpit, it's the department's responsibility. And that makes the responsibility for a project with such significant exceedances unclear and uncertain for most people, including the Stortinget. In this case, the Road Directorate or the road authorities in Finnmark cannot be suspected of having deliberately tricked with numbers, i.e. deliberately disabled for known people, to get through a project. That kind of suspicion has the Stortinge had in other things, I'll come back to it a little bit. But it's known, and it was known through the collapse proposition, that the Road Directorate had recommended an improved ferry solution over a tunnel project. So it's not reasonable to suspect that the Directorate of Roads has deliberately submitted a poor decision-making basis to the Department, which was then submitted to the Stortinget. If you were to go in the direction of that kind of suspicion, it would probably be the opposite. At that time, the Directorate of Roads could have earned money setting up prices to get through the solution they thought was the best, namely an extended ferry service. During this ageing period, the size has had a similar case for treatment. It was the expansion of North Hordlandsbrua, which is a matter where the exceedances were greater than they have been in connection with Fatima. At the time, we were in the same dilemma: the Road Directorate took responsibility for what was presented to the Stortinget. But we also knew that, among other things, had a road manager in Hordaland who had considerable self-interest in getting this bridge built, and just before the case was brought before Stortinget, it was turned off significantly in the price. At the time, there were no parties in Stortinget that concluded that this was a matter that should end in examining the possibility of national law. It was the Progress Party and the SV that went the farthest. We strongly criticized the road authorities, and we immediately stated that we felt it was reasonable that some of the responsible persons in the road authorities took responsibility and assessed their position. That's what Stortinget thinks about, but you can't demand it or go to direct terminations. The Directorate of Roads is a Directorate established under the law of the Stortinget, and we are in the vicinity of difficult issues relating to the information obligation of the Council of State in relation to the Stortingen for decisions and information held in the Directorate of Roads or for example. in state-owned companies which do not come to the attention of the Ministry. The situation is that you cannot accuse the Minister of not providing information to the Stortinget that he himself knew about. The situation is that it is necessary to assess whether the Council of State has done enough to examine whether it has sufficient information on what is available in the underlying agencies. But this matter and the matter of the Gardermoban raise the difficult questions of principle about how to deal with the information obligation of the Ministry of Transport and the Stortingen of the underlying agencies. The Gardermoban is a state-owned limited liability company governed by the NSB, and there it becomes extra complicated. These were questions that were up at the seminar that the Presidentship of the Stortinge arranged for the Stortinge and that the Committee to set up the Presidency now has to go through. And the Committee also asks that their assessments be based on these issues. When I started in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee at Stortinget, I had considerable respect for the Advancement Party, and in particular Carl I. Hagen's, principal thinking. I must say that respect has faded significantly. The Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen held a heavy press conference on February 15th this year and demanded a national law investigation against former government councillor Kjell Opseth. It was at a time when I suspect the Progress Party had a need to put a little distance between Opseth and itself, because it was when the IT Fornebu case was on the hottest. It was before the Stortinget had started to deal with the Fatima case, it was before the committee and the Progress Party were aware that the Ministry of Transport did not know the information behind the cost estimate. I think it is strange, little constructive and little in principle that before one has started to deal with a matter, one concludes that this is a matter that deserves to be examined for national law, when two years earlier one has dealt with a more serious matter in the Stortinget, namely Nordhordlandsbrua, where one did not reach the same conclusion, but from the Party of Advancement and the SV, allowed to have opinions about who should take responsibility, and that it was not at department level, but at the level of the road authority. [[The President Clubs Again]] I think it bears witness to a little principled thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e634	Intst of the Control and Constitutional Committee. S. No 205 on the State accounts records of the National Audit Office for 1998 — the Fatima project is interesting, but not a very funny reading at all, at least not for a transport policy. More before me have been concerned with the critical aspects of the quality of the basic material on which the Stortinget's treatment of St.prp was based. No 47 for 1992-93. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it, but I would like to make some comments about the consequences of some transportation projects blowing up all possible cost frameworks, unfortunately there have been some of them. No one is surprised that there are long lists of road projects around Norway that people want to realise. The lists are incredibly long. And wishes far exceed our possibilities to generate the resources that are needed to realize these projects. This is precisely why there will be a very hard priority, both locally and not least centrally, between many good projects. It goes without saying that it's not very easy to reach that queue – some say it's almost impossible, even though they have good projects. When resources are smaller than what might be desirable, and that is how it will always be, it becomes important to give proper priority to society, so that it gets as much back for the resources we choose to invest in the transport sector. Of course, if these priorities are to be close to being correct, the quality of the cost calculation itself, that is, the basis for prioritisation, is incredibly important for each project. In fact, even the transport sector does not have a sarepticism on the investment side, which means that exceedances on one project provide less resources for other projects. And the result may actually be that better projects have to endure because of exceedances of ongoing projects. Let's stick to Finnmark and Fatima. It is hardly doubtful that the exceedances of Fatima have led, for example, to: The expansion of E6 in Finnmark, Rv 94 to Hammerfest and Rv 888 Nordkynwegen, to name a few, has actually had to suffer because the Fatima project became so incredibly much more expensive. A little proof of this is that on 15 June this house will deal with a case related to the shooting of just Rv 94 to Hammerfest, where Hammerfeste municipality must pre-shoot the expansion of the Stallogargo flag because society has no money. It wouldn't be the situation if the exceedances had been released on the Fatima project. And these are very good projects that these communities depend on. Now more people in the room have said that if you had known about the costs, you might not have built the Fatima project. I don't want to wonder about that, because I wasn't in the hall then and I don't know what the reason was in that way, but I noticed that they said it. At least there is no doubt that the cost excess represents a problem in the transport sector that we have to do something about. And I also think there's a broad political consensus that we have to do something about it. In addition to what I said in the case of Finnmark, unfortunately, the exceedances have also resulted in our experience – at least the head of the Committee on Transport has done so – that we have nailed tunnels on national roads in this country. We've stopped major, significant transportation projects right in the middle of the ice. It goes without saying that people then wonder what the traffic politicians are doing, what they're spending the money for. This reduces the respect for politicians in general – unfortunately, I think perhaps for transport politicians in particular – and it is therefore very important to me that we get cleaned up in this. I hope and believe that through the work that the Riksrevision has now done, what the Control and Constitutional Committee has done, what we have got through the Mydske report relating to the Gardermo project, and in addition to what is now in the Yellow Book for the current financial year, we can address this problem and get it solved. I don't have any sesame sesame solution, but it's obvious that planning needs to get better. It could mean that we have to spend some more resources at the planning phase itself, and that we also have to be able to get projects back to the Storting if it turns out that these projects are too expensive. If so, the large test will be carried out. When a project adopted in this house comes back with a message that it will be much more expensive than planned, will the Storting say no? I'm looking forward to that test. I think we'll get it, and then we'll all be put to a test if we're able to follow up on this that's just related to cost developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e653	During the debate on this road case, all parties' representatives have voiced a very strong criticism by the Ministry of Transport of the former Council of State Kjell Opseth, a criticism which I expect the Council of State to take seriously. Not least, I also assume that the Ministry of Transport takes this criticism with me in its further work and makes it the basis for improving the projects that are now to come. The processing was too poor for all the individual elements of the Fatima project when the decision was taken in Stortinget. I wonder if I understood the representative Gryten right when he suggested that the Workers' Party now wants to extend the uncertainty framework to plus/minus 10 pst. in future road projects. In my opinion, this will help to create a rather unsustainable situation. We will be able to experience that many projects that should be given priority are being set off on time. It was also said by Grötten that it is easy to criticise afterwards. I hope that's not what's going to be the review tone in the cases that the Control Committee is getting presented, but I believe that the issues we've been dealing with are constantly saying that there's a lack of information on the basis of which we've got the cases for the first time, and therefore do not have a full overview of the individual projects. Carl I. Hagen was concerned about this with the requirement of responsibility. Yes, the majority therefore believe that responsibility should lie with the Minister for Transport in this case. But we are not prepared to have the same kind of criticism as the Progress Party has stated in the case. What has emerged in the Fatima project is critical, and the criticism is very strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e665	With regard to the latter part of the rapporteur's statement, it would have been useful to know how much the amount of waste would have to be in order to ensure that a proper consistency has been reached on the part of the rapporteur-general. 1 000 million. So kr is not sufficient. And it's a good thing to get rid of the fact that in projects where work is not good enough, such funds can well be used for purposes for which they would not otherwise have been used, without having consequences for the Council of State. Is that $1,500 million limit? kr, or is it $2 billion? So to Kristin Halvorsen, who criticised the Progress Party. That's what I expected, and that's why I tried to answer some of the criticism in my first post. What I believe separates the North Hordland Bridge from the Fatima project is among other things. that I am absolutely convinced that correct information about Fatima had resulted in the project not being built. But I'm not so sure if it's right about the North Hordland Bridge. So that's the other thing I also said in my post, that as things get rolling, the need to take responsibility for the Council of State increases by setting an example. In the past, we have tried other ways of making the departments responsible, the Road Directorate and the Road Administration responsible. We didn't get there. In fact, I believe now is the time – if we are to have a proper upgrading of responsibility and respect for the Storting, it is the Council of State that has to be held responsible, and it is the Council of State that in this case is also constitutionally responsible. It also admits the others in the committee, but they choose to say that a 1 000 million disposal. kr, which could have been used for other and much better projects, which the chairman of the Committee on Transport also said, is not serious enough. I fully respect the fact that there is a discretionary assessment case here, but as the scandals have grown, in our opinion, the need for a greater sense of responsibility has also grown accordingly. It is possible that one should have reacted differently that time, but we can at least say that if in retrospect we believe that we were too kind in the case of the North Hordland Bridge, it is better to come to the sense now than to say that because we did not go to that step at the time, we are not going to be able to do anything because we did not do it the time it could also be in place. We believe that experience is that if we are now to have a much more responsible position in the offices – generally speaking – and in anyone who calculates the basis for proposals for the Stortingen on large billion projects, we must ensure that it is managed from the top. In fact, it must not be that the government councils are thinking: well, mistrust is not going to happen, because then there will be a government shift and all that mass, and there will probably not be any control activities until in very many years, and then I have probably stopped. We need to maintain respect for the criminal provisions applicable to state councils after they have left. We note that we have not come forward, but we look forward to several parties agreeing with us in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e678	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e681	The case rapporteur, Odd Holten, asked questions related to the article by the Labour Party Chief Spokesman on the issue of plus/minus 10 pst. and the comments made in connection with that very starting point of the Fatima project. I just want to repeat that the Labour Party, of course together with the other parties, believes that there is a basis for criticising when the cost estimate broke by nearly 63 p.m., and in this way this debate has been fully constructive in the sense that what was really the cause of the cost speech was demanded. However, when I want to take up this plus-minus question again, it's because I think it was clear from St.prp. No 47 for 1992-93, which formed the basis for the decision of the Stortinget in May 1993 on the implementation of the Fatima project – that the plan basis was then at the main level and that an uncertainty margin of plus/minus 10 pst was nevertheless chosen. I have not recorded that this has been met during the debate, and there is reason to believe that the Stortinget was familiar with these concepts at the time. That is why, in our comments in the committee setting, we refer to other comparable projects, such as: Hardangerbrua and the Triangle Connection Sveio – Stord – Bømlo, where the cost estimate also had an uncertainty of plus/minus 10 pst. I just feel the need to present this since the rapporteur asked questions relating to the Workers' Party's comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e692	It was the representative Hagen who made me ask for the floor. I presented in my main speech on the Right’s View of the Progress Party’s proposal that Odelsting should appoint a Protocol Committee to prepare a possible national case. I have full respect for the argument and conclusion of the Progress Party as they do, and I think the criticism that the representative of Halvorsen came along with is groundless. I have full respect for the proposal, but when Hagen almost makes it a question about the number of kroner that would trigger a preliminary national court case, I have to say that I am not able to quantify this in dollars, and I do not think it is relevant in this context either. But it's not going to be $1 billion. The exceedances are going to be $393 million. kr. I voted to build for 625 million. kr, and I'm standing by. But I agree with Hagen that the more things we get from the Ministry of Transport, the greater the need for us to put our feet down and set an example at some point. I believe that we would have done if the then State Council, Kjell Opseth, had still been State Council. As far as I can see the committee, the criticism that has arisen is of such a nature that it would have meant mistrust of the Council of State Opseth. Opseth would not, if he had been in the department today, have survived the criticism that has arisen here from all parties. And then you might draw the conclusion that when he is not the Council of State in the current government, the criticism and what have been revealed by the Riksrevision and the Committee has had its effect anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e701	I don't think it's "driving" or temperature over Carl I. Hagen here today. I think it is a rather half-hearted proposal the Progress Party has put forward to examine the possibility of national law. The Progress Party has had the effect that they would like to have on that proposal, on a press conference already on 15 February. That does not exactly increase my respect for the judgements of the Progress Party on constitutional issues. The problem we're dealing with here, I think we're going to be very clear. It should not be formulated in such a way as to dampen the criticism which the Committee actually raised in this matter. It is a very strong criticism of the Ministry of Transport, it is a very fundamental criticism, and it is also such that both the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads are extremely paralysed when the criticism is raised both from the Riksrevision and from the Stortinget. What does it spend on leadership on road projects and tunnels and bridge projects later? It has been tightened up after this matter, but it must be tightened further. What makes me dismayed in these questions is how easy it is to get projects that triple into hundreds of millions of dollars and sum up in billions as soon as it's about a bridge, a tunnel, or something else that guys seem to be great. But every time we're going to have a penny for school, care or something like that, we have to laugh for every penny we're going to get. I should have liked to see the reality turned my head around, that it was possible to invest in this kind of order of magnitude in the areas of society where the needs are even greater than in the road sector, and that the road sector – especially the major performance giant projects – had to put in the back of the queue and wait. It is also true that when responsibility cannot be clearly placed for exceedances of this magnitude, people's perception of justice is, of course, challenged. The Progress Party is quite right in that. That's why I think it's absolutely necessary for the Storting to be able to find ways of responding to people's responsibilities, and that's what we have to do as soon as possible. In recent times, the Storting itself has actually awakened away from the use of national law. It shows the history of national law in the last 10, 20 and 30 years. In this way, the Stortinget itself has killed the National Court Institute, but you can't be aware that you're left without any reaction forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e712	What has been said by Mr Ludvigsen and the representative of Mr Halvorsen is interesting: it is a very strong criticism in this position. The rapporteur has also confirmed this, and it has also confirmed representatives from the Workers' Party, through the chairman of the Committee, Gunnar Schaug and the representative, Gryten. It is then natural to follow-up questions on the basis of similar things we have had – even if they cannot be fully compared – namely the case of Nordhordlandsbrua. In the case of North Hordlandsbrua, there was also criticism of what happened there. SV and the Progress Party had a comment that was that we advised the Council of State to do something about the people involved who had been responsible for this project and who had not done their job satisfactorily. I have a specific and correct question to the Council of State: Will he consider reviewing the matter with a view to dealing with those who have been responsible for this project? Of course, the Council of State can't dismiss anyone via the Spokesman's Chair, and I didn't expect that either, but could he stay a little bit at the thought he's making as a new Council of State when it comes to putting people in charge of the different projects we've had? In concrete terms: will the Council consider a review to see whether the persons responsible for the project have allegedly not provided relevant information to the Minister for Transport Kjell Opseth at that time? Will he go in and consider doing something?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e719	Carl I. Hagen gets the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e722	I just want to replicate to Mrs. Halvorsen that I don't think it's always right to measure what we in the Progress Party mean, based on the volume of our voice usage, or ‘driving’ in intensity and manner of speaking, but rather focus more on what we say. I can meet her in one area, and it is that in terms of commitment and zeal in terms of health care and care, she can look forward to a much higher voice volume, commitment and ‘driving’ when we come to the treatment of the revised national budget and a few other matters later. I hope it's not going to be that way that you don't think I mean what I'm saying, even though I'm not always able to find that the time is in for the greatest volume of voice and the greatest commitment. There must be a little bit of variation. When the hall is relatively empty, and there is little interest among the press, I save the acting for a little later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e729	With such an assessment from the National Audit Office, and based on what has subsequently emerged both during the consultation of this matter and during the deliberations, it is quite natural for the Ministry and for me to consider possible consequences for the officials involved. It was just to be lacking that you should be completely at peace. On the other hand, with the demands that have to be made here that it is precisely the Council of State that is responsible, one must not get into the situation where the Council of State indirectly discharges its responsibility by kicking someone. So this must be a balanced assessment in relation to the job that has been done, and the situation in which you have been brought up. When I was also involved in this at the open hearing, I stated that what had been achieved up until then was not a basis for concrete reactions to individuals. I then took a reservation to wait for the further bulk treatment. Similarly, I do not see it as appropriate today on the basis of what emerges here, despite the seriousness that has been pointed out, with concrete actions against individuals. But I would like to emphasise again that this should not be seen as lasting peace. I would also like to say, when I have the floor, that through the 1990s, the Directorate of Roads has worked a lot on questions about securing a cost estimate, and during this year we will have a revised plan for that very purpose. In addition, the Government is also working on what the Government of Bondevik announced in the Yellow Book in relation to the State budget for 2000 in terms of securing a cost estimate for projects of more than 500 million. kr. It is important for the Government, naturally, to work on this, not only to be able to provide the most accurate information to the Storting, but also to have total control over the resources of society. We have a common interest in working on that in order to make the right priorities at the right times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e738	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e751	Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e771	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e779	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-07.ana.ud2490e807	There is no record.
