ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e51	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e62	The current setting is mainly a follow-up of Input. S. No 171 for 1997-98 based on Document No 8:51 for 1997-98, by Mr Gunhild Øyangen, and Document No. 8:65 for 1997-98, by Annelise Høegh, Inge Wohnning and Sonja Sjøli, on the amendment of the Law on the Medical Use of Biotechnology on Access to Outreach Genetic Activities/Guidelines. In addition, the wording specifies the scope of the law, that the provision of the law relates initially to research that has a diagnostic or therapeutic effect on the subject or to information on the individual that may be returned to him. In the case of outreach genetic activities, the legislative proposal and the present suspension are a follow-up to the majority decision I of the Innst. S. No 171 for 1997-98. The majority consisted at that time of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. It is clear from the bill that the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs Department believes that all research, including basic research, should be regulated by the law, while the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in the bill proposes that the law should not apply to research which does not have a diagnostic or therapeutic effect on the participant or where information on the individual can be returned to him. The Ministry, however, proposes in the third paragraph of Section 1-2 of the Act that the King may, however, decide in the regulation that the provisions of the Act shall apply in whole or in part also to research not covered by the Act. An overall committee opposes the third paragraph of Section 1-2 of the bill on regulatory regulation in relation to whether individual cases should be covered in whole or in part by the law. In this context, the Progress Party promotes its own legal text in Sections 1-2: ‘The law applies to the medical use of biotechnology in man. The law does not apply to research. Except for the provisions of Sections 3-1 and 3a-1.» Even I believe that the new legal text of the Progress Party is more clarifying and more concise and not subject to interpretations. However, the Progress Party will vote subsidiaryly to remove the third paragraph of Section 1-2, as is the case with the majority. In support of this, I would like to have said that the Progress Party believes that there should be a great deal of restraint in regulating medical research in general, and in this context demonstrates that we have established research ethics committees which should continue to be responsible for and overseeing medical research in the fields of genetic and biotechnology, and to involve policy in this field as much as possible. In the case of the second part of the present suspension, namely the follow-up to Decision I of the Innst. S. No 171 for 1997-98, I find that the legal text of Section 6a-1 as it is contained in the proposition, not at all, follows up the intentions of Decision I of the Innst. S. No 171, and the legal text as it now stands, may in worst cases create ambiguities and misunderstandings during the practice of genetic guidance activities. On this basis, the Progress Party in the present position has found it necessary to propose an entirely new legislative text to Section 6a-1, in order to safeguard the intentions and prerequisites of the party for outreach genetic activity, and to be in line with the Innst majority decision. S. No 171. I do not hide the fact that I am surprised to see that the Workers' Party, which stood as the proposer of Document No. 8:51 for 1997-98, which, together with the Progress Party, constituted the majority in Innst. S. No 171, now in the present setting appears to be less clear and thus creates uncertainty in relation to the responsibilities of doctors to provide themselves with the necessary outreach guidance where the patient himself does not want to contribute to this. I refer here to point 3 on the safe documented relationship between the heritable disease facility and the development of disease, and point 5 that the disease can be prevented or treated with good effect. The Labour Party and the majority are in favour of removing the word ‘safe’ in point 3, but retaining ‘documented context’. Personally, I see no difference between this with ‘safely documented’ and ‘documented’ context. I am referring here to the proposal in Document No. 8:51 had the following words at this point: ‘there is a reasonable degree of likelihood that the relative also has the genetic disposition’. With regard to point 5 of the premise, that the disease can be prevented or treated with good effect, this is one of the premises of the Innst minority. S. No 171 had at that time, and as was then rejected by the majority, so also the Workers' Party. As I see it, it is not possible in any context to guarantee that a treatment will have a good effect, and the legal text here should be sufficient by using the same legal text that was in the Innst. p. n.a. 171, that the disease can be prevented or treated. The greatest difference in principle between the majority and the Progress Party in the present situation is that the Progress Party believes that patients who may have a hereditary disease should have the right to know this, if they want it, and that the doctor not only can, but must undertake to inform the closest relatives when it is probable that there is a disposition for serious hereditary disease, and the patient himself will not or even cannot understand this information. Like me and the Progress Party perceived Document No. 8:51 for 1997-98 by the representative Gunnhild Eyeågen, was precisely the intention that the family should be assured of this information if they so wished. It is now clear that the Workers' Party has made a right on this point, uncertainly for what reason, and I would challenge the Workers' Party spokesman in the debate to clarify just this. The text of the law as it now appears to be, and for which the party of progress will vote subsidiaryly, is more in line with the proposal of the Right in Document No. 8:65 for 1997-98, as the right in its comments points out. There is still full agreement in the committee that it is the patient himself who should primarily provide information to his close family, but in this respect I would be particularly pleased to have a unanimous committee on my proposal that the doctor should be responsible for ensuring the quality of the information the patient himself wants to provide to his close family. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e98	The representative John I. Alvheim has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e101	Today, we are addressing changes in a law that should be amended as biotechnology and genetic engineering evolve. The legislation shall not impede the development of the positive opportunities but shall ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. Biotechnology offers opportunities. In the future, we may be able to take a blood test to identify what serious diseases we can get, or what diseases a small fetus has or can have. The legislation shall ensure that neither researchers, therapists nor we ourselves are involved in something that is not ethically sound. In professional environments, there have been differing views on whether the Biotechnology Act regulates research. When researchers and lawyers disagree, the best way to clarify the law is to clarify it. It is a very important principle that the law should cover research. In Norway, a national ban on human cloning was adopted in 1997. I think it's important not to be too credulous about a technology that opens up so many opportunities for good and bad, and that not least opens up great economic profit. As the Committee became aware when it was in the United States, in serious research environments, an international ban on human cloning is called for. I want Norway to become a spearhead in this work. Human cloning sounds like science fiction, but it may not. It is no longer inconceivable that one through, among other things. the cloning technique can develop a new ruling class of ‘over-humans’, in which ‘common people’ are reduced to a subordinate service. Strong economic interests can grasp the possibility of developing perfect human qualities if we do not have an internationally binding law. I would therefore strongly urge the Norwegian Government to take decisive initiatives to ban the reproductive cloning of human beings on the agenda, both politically and in the international research forums. The law shall regulate research where it has therapeutic implications for the participant or where information on the individual can be returned to him. Research doesn't always happen openly. The regional research committees are not administrative bodies and their decisions are not public. Nor is it illegal to launch a research project even if a research ethics committee advises against it. Decisions on the use of new methods affect life processes that make it necessary to ensure that everything takes place within the values and standards that society at all times defines as important. Choices must be made on the basis of extensive information and thorough public debate. Transparency and transparency of research are then a necessary control. Therefore, the Workers' Party wishes to regulate this part of the research, and that the Storting should decide whether the provisions of the Act apply to other types of research. We would like to have a broad focus on genetic research, and like to be with other countries, but then we need to know what's going on. The legal framework contributes to the security of those involved in the research projects. In fact, this can help to make research possible. What we are in favour of is, therefore, to ensure that ‘experimentals’, that the rules on consent, guidance and information apply to them. Today, gene therapy is at the research stage and will probably be for years to come. We want to be involved in development, but we also want to secure the individual. The Progress Party seems to have a very strong belief in researchers. The Labour Party's policy in this area is not a matter of free movement and no regulation. This is a research area that should be regulated. Research committees cannot take sole responsibility for development. The other area proposed is access to outreach genetic activities. When I go to the doctor, the main rule is that what she finds out about me is a joke that she can share with me. Only by consenting from me can she tell my relatives what she found. It shall remain that way – as a principle. But here today we are adopting an important exception. Dispensation may be granted under specific conditions and for disease categories approved in advance by the Ministry. We have discussed this in Stortinget before, and asked the then Minister of Health Højbräten to propose that access to outreach activities be granted to doctors under certain conditions. We have been doing this for years under the law on the protection of the general public with regard to infectious diseases, such as: tuberculosis and some sexually transmitted diseases. Time has now matured, and we will use the possibilities to prevent the development of serious disease transmitted by inheritance under certain legal conditions. Inherited hypercholesterol was an example that was used when Stortinget asked for a bill. We can also detect the availability of certain types of cancer, where early diagnosis and treatment can be crucial. It is proposed to allow doctors to seek out the relatives of patients unhindered by the obligation of professional secrecy in order to inform the relatives of a possible disposition for heritable disease. Only the Progress Party considers that outreach activities should be subject to obligation. I believe that we are in a too new area to go out so hard. Health professionals must always behave properly – I would like to stress this – and in this regulation they receive guidance on the exercise of discretion in respect of good conduct. Regardless of the lot boundaries, we all agree that there must be conditions for outreach activities. An overall committee agrees that the doctor can only act this way in the case of a disease with significant consequences for life and health. All members of the Committee also agree that there must be a reasonable degree of likelihood that the relatives have an heritable disease facility that could lead to a disease later in life. Furthermore, all members of the Committee agree that the disease at risk must be treatable or preventable. Finally, I believe it is important that the public participate in the development and decide not only the ethics, but also the speed at which we use new methods. In this context, an evaluation of the practice of the rules on outreach activities is broad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e137	The Biotechnology Act is under evaluation, but Odelstinget is today to take decisions within two key areas of the law, which have therefore been addressed before the law is evaluated as a whole. This is a clarification of the scope of the law and the legal rules governing access to outreach genetic activities. There have been differing views as to whether the legal provisions of the Biotechnology Act relate to research. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and State Health have interpreted the law to include only research with therapeutic consequences for individuals and/or where information is returned to them. However, the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice has concluded that the provisions of the law regulate all research projects that use the methods covered by the law. It is clear that such a different interpretation of the scope of the law is not a sustainable situation. The Christian People's Party agrees that the law does not need to apply to research that does not have a diagnostic or therapeutic impact on the participant or where information about the individual is not returned to him. Except for this, as in the past, the prohibition of research on fertilised eggs and cloning. We have noticed that the Data Protection Authority has been of the opinion that research should not fall outside the scope of the Biotechnology Act. However, I believe that when the law applies to research that has a diagnostic or therapeutic impact on the participant, or where information is returned to him, the main data protection considerations are respected. The proposal also proposed access to regulatory regulation as to whether the law should apply in full or in part to individual cases of research not covered by the Act under the provisions on the diagnostic or therapeutic consequences, or whether the information could be returned to him. An argument for regulatory regulation in this area is the current development of this field of research. By means of a regulatory provision, one of these could have rapidly regulated the activities which a person wished to pursue under the provisions of the law. However, this is a matter for which Stortinget has a strong interest in having an independent assessment. On this basis, the Christian People’s Party has concluded that a regulation in this field is not necessary. But precisely because research in this area is in such rapid development, it is important that the Government submit such matters to the Storting as quickly as possible if such relationships should arise. The main feature of the new legislative proposal is a new chapter on outreach genetic activity. The bill states that it is normal for a patient who has or has an inherited disease to decide whether to inform the relatives concerned. If the patient himself cannot or does not want to inform, the bill allows the doctor to inform relatives with or without the patient’s consent, but then under perfectly defined and defined conditions. The Christian People's Party also joins the majority of the Committee, which supports the bill in the proposition, with the slight change that one requires «a documented context» and not «a safe documented relationship» between the hereditary disease facility and the development of disease in the fourth paragraph of Section 6a-1 of the Act. 3rd@item: inlistbox I don't think this is a material change, because in my language it will be so that a context that is documented will also be safe. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the information given to relatives of patients with proven disposition or presence of hereditary disease is given according to the strict conditions set by the law. It is important that information be provided only in the case of a disease with a significant impact on the individual's life or health, where there is a reasonable degree of likelihood that relatives also have an heritable disease facility which may lead to a later life disease, where there is a documented link between the heritable disease facility and the development of disease, where the genetic studies used to determine the heritable disease facility are safe and where the disease can be prevented or treated with good effect. This is a difficult area, and here is the important consideration to take. It's here about both the right to know and the right to not know. These are knowledge that can have a very important impact on the individual’s life and health. Here are conflicting considerations to take. Therefore, it is important that legislation is aware of this. An overall committee expresses some of this and points out that laws in this area are attitude-creating. One must not make laws that make it difficult to act in the best interests of patients and families in many unpredictable situations. Nor has it been given that an overall control authority will make decisions that are ethically more correct and better for patients and families than can be done by close family health workers in a given situation. At the same time, it's important to remember that the opposite is not necessarily obvious either. It is not certain that the closest person in a situation is the one with the necessary overview. In such cases, it may be a strength for him to have laws and guidelines governing these matters. In this respect, I think it is remarkable that the Progress Party in this area does not want the physician to assess whether there is a documented link between disease facilities and disease development and whether the studies used are safe. These are requirements that doctors will impose in any other disease situation, but the Progress Party proposes these conditions removed from this legal text. Medical research, diagnostics and treatment legislation may be difficult, not least because of ethical issues. I have sometimes come to the conclusion that these areas are too difficult for politicians and should therefore be left to the experts, namely the researchers themselves. But this can't be right. A matter area is not excluded from the responsibility of politicians because it is difficult. Albert Einstein must have said that the most difficult thing in the world to understand is the income tax. It does not prevent large political activity and legislation in the field of income tax. But then it is not that great scientific and scientific competence guarantees an equivalent degree of ethical evaluability. I have personally experienced one of the really great scientists of science history in the area we are now discussing, revealing myself as something close to an illiterate in the field of ethics. Therefore, it is and will be the responsibility of politicians on behalf of the ethical awareness of the people we represent to draw up general guidelines for research activities in the form of law. It is a responsibility that can be unpleasant and difficult, but it is our right and our duty, and I believe that we have done well in the matter that we are now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e169	The matter we are discussing today has, as mentioned earlier, the background in two Document No. 8th proposal of 1998, from the Gunhild eye on the one hand and Inge Wohnning, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself on the other. That time it was pretty hard fronts. However, when the previous position of the Social Committee on this matter was debated in May 1998, a certain approach had already taken place. Then it turned out that it was not only the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV who believed that the main rule had to be that the patient himself should be informed in the event of any identified risk of heritable suffering – possibly with the patient's consent – but also the Workers' Party and the Progress Party already joined it. So the debate at the time was largely based on the criteria and premises underlying an exception that doctors could also inform the patient's relatives under certain strict criteria, even if the patient had opposed it. What went on in particular at the time was the same as today’s disagreement – but today the majority is much larger – namely whether the disease can be prevented or treated with good effect and whether treatment should be granted if a heritable, serious disorder is detected. Now, since then, we have adopted a patient rights law that gives the right to treatment, and to the right, this is a very important premise to go in for the bill we are now making, even though the wording of the patient rights law as the majority, of which we were not a part, did not adopt as clear a consensus as we would have liked. But looking up genetic activity is now an opportunity, but I think it's important to realize that it's not the outseeing genetic establishment that saves lives, it's just treatment that can do. Therefore, it is important that we be able to extend the treatment provision in the healthcare system, that it is getting better and better, and that the individual be helped as quickly as possible when suffering from a disease or illness. As the then Minister of Health, Højbrätten, presented the proposal that forms the basis of today's debate, we quickly saw that this was natural for us to join because it was, in effect, identical to the proposals that we had presented two years earlier, namely that the genetic outreach activity should be carried out, it must be the case of «a disease with a significant impact on the individual's life or health», as stated in the bill, it must be a reasonable degree of probability that the relatives also have an heritable disease facility that can lead to later in life, there must be a documented link between the disease facility and the development of the disease, the genetic tests used must be safe, and the disease must be preventable or treated with good effect. This is the background for the right-wing approach to the present proposal, with a minimal change. I therefore think it might also be in place to take a little objection to a statement that was in the newspaper a few days ago. It said that now the Right and Middle Parties had joined the majority, i.e. in this context the Labour Party and the Advance Party, and that is not right for any of the parties. We feel that we have agreed on everything essential in the proposal we made, and I think it is very gratifying that we now have a majority in this Chamber – everyone except the Progress Party. It is gratifying that the Labour Party has come to the same conclusion since we dealt with this last, and I believe, as I said, that the provisions of the Patient Rights Act are quite important in this context. The right has agreed to one change in relation to what we based, and that is also Are Næss. With regard to the criterion that there is a documented link between the heritable disease facility and the development of disease, we have agreed to take out the word ‘safe’. I think of it more like philology than a real change, because something is documented, you also have to assume that it's safe. There is one fundamental and very important difference between the majority proposal that everyone, except the Progress Party, is behind, and the proposals of the Progress Party – and that difference is made up of the words «can», «shall», respectively. Here we are moving in a very uncertain room, and it surprises me that the Progress Party is going in so that the doctor will have the right to do so, for example. informing relatives, despite the fact that the message you are about to receive is not certain. This is special. That would make Norway unique, I think, in the world, if we decided that the doctor should be obliged to inform despite the patient having opposed it. It is important to consider that what is proposed should have a good effect. If not, then there is a cross-reference between what is quite common medical criteria for all treatment, whether it is outreach genetic activity or all other prevention and treatment. It is also important — and I believe that this is the basis for and is well reflected in the majority position of the Committee — that there is competence and the possibility of providing prevention or treatment with good effect, ‘should-seeking genetic guidance could be assessed’. It should be possible to assess it. It's more careful not to express itself, and it's in recognition that there's an unsafe area, which is in a raging development, we're moving into. I'm one of those people who sees pretty much positive about the opportunities that genetic and biotechnology give us, but it's naive not to be aware that there's also a danger here. It must always be an ethical reflection that governs the offerings we give to the population, and we must also take inward the anxiety, the anxiety and the fear that many individuals can experience and may have to live with for decades of their lives by knowing that they are at risk of developing a disease. It can also create a false security to get a genetic test that is negative — in a positive sense — for most people who develop serious diseases, they get, and perhaps die from them, without the presence of a heritable plant and a heritable contingent risk. That's why I think it's natural to approach this area of humility and caution. I think most of us, or at least more and more of us, will friend us to live with this kind of uncertainty. We're in the process of developing at a fast pace. We're going to get a constant knowledge of risk factors in our lives, and we're constantly being encouraged to do this or a hint to prevent disease. So it'll probably be more common in the decades to come. In a very near past, treatment options set limits on the provision of healthcare. Now the possibilities are almost unimaginable, and it's the economy that sets limits. That's why we owe both ourselves and our descendants to approach this theme with humility and caution, and not with slippery security, which I regret to feel is a characteristic of the minority. I also agree with Gunhild Eyering in – although my starting point and vision in terms of researchers are positive – that one cannot simply assume that the ethical reflection of the researchers is just as well thought out. That's how we're human beings, whether we're scientists or we're big-time representatives. That is why we in the Right are also in the majority who will not give the Ministry the power to decide for themselves by regulations which new bans should be applied to research. Research should initially be free. It assumes that the researchers take social responsibility. Since not everyone always shows it, we believe that it is the right thing for the Storting to take concrete decisions if there is to be new prohibitions in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e210	Biotechnology in general, and genetic engineering in particular, provide us with an unwavering opportunity to reduce suffering and grief. At the same time, many ethical dilemmas and conflicts arise. I understand that the Biotechnology Act is being evaluated, and then you come back to an assessment of the entire law and its impact. And I'm going to essentially use the time to talk about out-looking genetic activity, for which it opens up. I am pleased that there is a restrictive position in the Storting to that type of activity, and that it is not open to systematic and general outreach genetic activity. It is also agreed that the general rule should be that the patient himself should inform or consent to information on genetic disposition. I would like to stress that these are the exceptions for which we have now made legislation. Experience in genetic guidance in families with a hereditary risk of serious illness from other countries shows that the primary patient is rarely even informing relatives. But there's a small minority that, for different reasons, cannot or will not provide information about the disposition of hereditary diseases to their relatives. With the clarification of the law, we want to ensure that the relatives have the same chance of preventing or treating disease of a serious nature as the original patient does. Of course, this case concerns one of the basic relationships between doctor and patient, namely the obligation of professional secrecy. It is not surprising that someone can react negatively to the doctor informing about something that the patient himself does not want to inform his relatives about. The Medical Act provides that information may be provided without consent «where, for other specific reasons, disclosure must be considered legitimate». Fortunately, genetic engineering has not come so far that one can predict the health future of each of us as in a crystal sphere. In any case, the relationship between heredity and disease is only one possible disposition that no one can reliably predict. It is therefore of course a prerequisite that the conditions for the pursuit of outreach genetic activities are unambiguous and limited to those which may have serious consequences for the individual’s life and health. I also think it is right that such information should only be provided in cases where it is possible that disease can be prevented or treated with good effect, as the representative Annelise Höegh just mentioned. Here are many ethical dilemmas that arise, among other things. the right to know as well as the right to not know. With regard to information to be provided, the Committee recommends that written material be prepared to assist patients wishing to inform their families. I think that's a necessary help. In addition, many diseases in themselves are so complex, and the need for sensitive information of such a nature, that it may be difficult to communicate it to non-health professionals. It is therefore necessary for health professionals to be able to provide information to relatives where the patient agrees. In addition, the patient may be seriously ill and that there is insufficient contact with relatives or, for other reasons, that the patient prefers to be informed by a doctor or healthcare professional rather than by him. Medical genetic technology opens up opportunities for better health and a better life, but also has many opportunities that we want to be ahead of. As elected representatives and politicians, I believe that we have a great responsibility in this area to draw up some boundaries. I agree with those who have suggested that if we have confidence in the sound judgement of the researchers, this is a political responsibility to draw up the boundaries. We also know that there are economic interests within these issues. So let me end by pointing out that respect for the value of the individual human being and the integrity of the individual human being, and stress what Gunhild Eyeågen said, that we want a society with room for all, and that Norway should perhaps assume the role of being a spearhead in the international community in terms of having a restrictive attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e232	I want to go back a little bit in time and look at the situation in 1998, when we started discussing outreach genetics. The Committee was then informed by the Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbräten of the legal status at that time, where it was referred to the National Health Authority’s circular of 25 February 1998, which set out the conditions under which outreach genetic activity could take place under the Medical Act. What's interesting about that letter from Dagfinn Højbrätten, is that what Dagfinn Højbrätten explained at the time, in essence, is the same as what is available as a proposal for a legal text today. The majority want to take out the word ‘safe’, but otherwise you will see that the indents are essentially consistent with the text at that time. This means that, at the time, there was already a possibility to pursue outreach genetic activity under certain strict conditions. I think it's important to bring it with me. What's also important is that it should happen on strict terms. When you hear the Gunhild eye talk here today as if it were a minority at the time – i.e. the middle parties, Right and SV – that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party should have come together in this case, it is to turn the matter upside down completely. Because the 1998 document shows that both the Labour Party and the Advance Party would then have a law that was much more liberal with regard to driving rules in order to be able to conduct outreach genetic activities. So fortunately, the Labour Party, when they have had time to think about and have gone through this thoroughly, has landed down on what the minority then argued about, so that there is no longer any minority, and good it is, while the Advance Party in this case, as in a number of other cases, has had little help in spending time thinking about. When you look forward, it can't be stressed strongly enough that the business we're talking about here will only happen on very exceptional and very strict terms. I registered that the head of the disabled person's Joint Organisation, Jan A. Monsbakken, spoke in the newspaper two days ago, and he expressed strong scepticism. Obviously, if you get a kind of rash related to the outreach genetic establishment, where there are no exceptional cases, but lipid clinics and researchers and different business people who think they're going out to the Norwegian people to inform both wide and high, there's no law to do that. When we go into this now, we in the Socialist Left Party will be very concerned that we have to prevent it. It will be very important to meet the counterparts of interested organisations in such a way that they can feel safe that they are also entitled not to know. When we later deal with the law on health records, for which I am the case rapporteur, it becomes interesting to assess whether you can imagine a type of health register in which people are actually given the right to make reservations. Because in that case you have to respect it. If you had opened up that opportunity, you would have come to meet the different organizations' counterparts. People would have had the right to say that that kind of information I don't want, and if that information is given against my will, the law is broken. In this case, it would have been about the law on health records, if you added the right to register in such a health register with the strict leaders who, of course, have to be added to it. I think that, despite everything through the job that was done by a significant minority in Stortinget at the time, something that is far more reasonable than it once seemed to be. So we in SV think it's good to keep the text as it existed from Dagfinn Højbrätten, and not to remove the word «safe». There is a certain difference between that something is documented and that it is certainly documented. With the word «safe» I see that it is predominantly likely, with «documented» one can point out that there is a certain degree of probability of a relationship here, but without one can say it very safely. So we think it's okay. It seems that it was reasonably well thought that that word should be in the text, and we do not think there is any reasonable reason to take it out. We are also pleased that the proposal we have made for an evaluation of the law after five years has been approved by the majority, so that it can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e251	The President would like to ask if Mr Ballo would like to raise the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e254	I'm sorry. So I'm going to deal with the minority proposal we've been making.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e260	The representative, Olav Grundar Ballo, then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e263	The current approach proposes two amendments to the Biotechnology Act. Both amendments illustrate the importance and difficulty of balancing the regulatory environment in this area. Biotechnology is an area of rapid professional development. There is considerable progress in biotechnological research that carries in itself the potential to solve medical challenges in a way that can save lives and be of great benefit to individuals and society. It is important to facilitate such research, including ensuring that the law does not place unnecessary obstacles to or unnecessarily hamper research. At the same time, it is clear that technical developments in this area, in particular the new opportunities for the use of new knowledge, raise important ethical and societal issues. Statutory observance of these considerations and good follow-up to this law are a prerequisite for research and application of research results to be carried out in the way that society wants. These considerations are also reflected in the proposals currently under consideration. In this context, I recall that the very purpose paragraph of the Biotechnology Act reflects the same balancing considerations. It states that the purpose of the law is precisely to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done in accordance with, inter alia: principles of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and be based on our debased ethical standards. One of the two proposals in the suspension makes it clear that the scope of the law applies only to research which has either a diagnostic or a therapeutic impact on the individual or involves the return of information on the individual subject. The background to this proposal is that there have been differing views on the extent to which the provisions of the current law apply to research. The provisions governing direct research naturally apply to all kinds of research, including basic research. There has never been any confusion about that. This applies to the prohibition of research on fertilised eggs in § 3-1 and to the prohibition on the production of hereditary identical individuals in § 3a-1. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the work of the representative for the eye to develop an international ban on human reproductive cloning. I can assure you that the Government will actively work for such a ban. In addition to the provisions governing direct research, there have been various perceptions as to whether the provisions of the Biotechnology Act apply to research. This is now proposed to be clarified by reducing the scope of the law, so that not all research is covered. This will essentially imply a continuation of practices to date. As mentioned above, it is important to ensure that the law respects the privacy and rights of individuals. The need to protect the rights of individuals is particularly relevant in cases where participation in research projects has a diagnostic or therapeutic impact on the individual or information is returned to him. In these situations, subjects will have the same need for protection as persons undergoing established treatment. In my opinion, there is no reason why these persons should have a worse legal status than those who are under established treatment. So I think it's right to give the same rights to these two groups. This applies, for example: the right to genetic information and guidance in the case of genetic testing, the protection of data and the protection against unauthorised or unnecessary testing. It is therefore proposed that legislation should apply where participation in research projects has an impact on the investigators. I believe that the committee's recommendation provides an appropriate clarification of the issue of the scope of the law. The second proposal concerns the regulation of access for health professionals to so-called outreach genetic activities. The question of whether access to outreach genetic activities should be available has been much discussed. It has also, as mentioned earlier, been dealt with by the Stortinget in connection with two Document No. Eight proposals. Also in this case there are several different considerations that need to be weighed against each other. Centrally, consideration is given to the privacy of both the patient and the relatives. For the patient, it is important to protect the possibility of control of information on a self, the desire for anonymity and the need for protected communication between the patient and healthcare. It is important that patients are not reluctant to seek out healthcare in order to be able to pass on information about their personal circumstances to outsiders. The protection of the patient's privacy means that access to visit relatives should be limited. Consideration must also be given to the privacy of relatives. In this context, privacy is primarily the protection of privacy, the need for protection against intrusion of outsiders into private circumstances and the right to refuse information which he does not wish to receive. However, in some cases these considerations may conflict with an presumed desire of relatives to receive information. In some cases it will be of great importance for the relatives to receive the information, for example: where there is a risk that he will develop a serious future disease for which there is a good chance to prevent or treat, and where this information is important for the benefit of the relative. These are also factors that need to be taken into account when assessing the legislation in this area. In this setting, it is proposed that a physician’s access to a patient’s relatives be sought under specified conditions in order to provide genetic guidance, investigation and possible treatment. The general rule shall be that the patient himself informs his/her relatives. If the patient himself cannot or will not inform, it shall be possible, in exceptional circumstances, for the physician to do so. Following the proposal, an access to information is granted to the physician. The proposal does not imply an obligation on the part of the doctor to do so or a right on the part of relatives to be visited or to be offered follow-up. I believe that the proposal to add to the law in this area balances the different considerations in a good way. It allows patients and their relatives to provide information on the risk of developing a serious disease that can be prevented or treated. At the same time, important data protection considerations are taken into account. There will normally be different perceptions of how the different considerations in this area are to be weighed against each other. The perceptions may vary from, on the one hand, not to want any regulation or legal restriction at all, to, on the other hand, to want to prohibit all research, including. the fear of the application of the knowledge which is being developed. One must have respect for different personal perceptions. However, all democracies appear to develop legislation regulating research and the application of research results in order to promote biotechnological development in a way that is ethically sound and that respects the rights and privacy of individuals. In accordance with the purpose paragraph of the Act, these considerations are well taken care of also in the current state of play. I believe this also gives reason to believe that the work of creating an international ban on human cloning can win.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e309	I don't know if what I was going to ask the Minister for Health is on the side of the debate. That's for the president to assess. But there is undoubtedly also something related to the problem of genetic and biotechnology. There are issues relating to the Patent Directive. It was stated in the government's declaration of accession that the Government would ensure that the patent directive was submitted to the Stortinget. I perceived it so that it would be done fairly quickly. We have now exceeded the deadline, and the Stortinget has not yet received the patent directive with any recommendation from the Government. This has implications for business and also in the medical field for pharmaceuticals. My question is simple: When can we expect the patent directive to be dealt with in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e318	The President understands that if the Council of State does not want to or cannot answer. State Council Tore Tønne – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e321	I thank you for your understanding. I had so far not had to spend time on this other than saying that I also think this might be a bit on the side of the debate we now have. I prefer for that reason just to say that it will come when it is prepared in such a way that it is suitable for treatment in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e326	There are two issues that have been raised in relation to the debate about it in passing on information. One is the reactions of the person receiving the information, because you might not want that information. But another aspect that has been withdrawn is the breach of professional secrecy. I see that someone draws comparisons in relation to the infectious disease law and formulations there. And it's the same with the I.D. that if someone has gonorrhea, chlamydia, tuberculosis, or every HIV infection, that is, different types of infection, then it has a big impact on others if you don't get infected, because this creates ring-effects. The relationship with heritable diseases is completely different – you inherit them. You don't infect others with them. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether he finds that parallel natural, or whether it is possible to inform others without any need, or aim, to break the obligation of confidentiality. It must be completely possible, at least as I see it, to inform others in such a way as to trace the information back to the person who has been with the doctor as far as possible. Should it not, in fact, be an active objective, as opposed to that of the IPD, which often has to be linked to the source of infection in order to carry out the detection of infection and also to inform possible contacts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e333	I don't think it's such a full parallel in the interpretation of the infectious disease law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e338	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e343	First, I would like to express my satisfaction with the Minister of Health's positive feedback on my recommendation that the Government act as an active spearhead for an international ban on human cloning. Here one can imagine both an active political commitment, so that all countries adopt such national provisions, and also that one addresses the issue in the international research forums. Then I would like to say that the position we have before us today is well in line with the proposal that the Workers' Party has made in its time, which put this matter on the political agenda, both in the department and in the Stortinget. I am pleased with the broad consensus that emerges in today's vote. Actually, I was ill-informed when Stortinget last debated this matter, but I am lucky to read it, and I have looked at the setting that was available at the time. I was very surprised at the John I. Alvheim of the Advancement Party, who suggested that we were united on a duty to seek out genetic activity. Then I would like to refer to the setting at the time, where it is clearly said that this is a «access to». That's what the majority say, so it's cleared by the way. I'm very surprised that the Progress Party is going so far that these people want a duty. It must also be sufficient in this context to refer to the Health Care Act Section 4 on sound medical judgement. What remains is that the Storting provides a very important exception, an opening for outreach activities, but also – and I would like to emphasise this – quality assurance of information that patients provide to their relatives. I also think that the representative Annelise Höegh had a reflected assessment of the balances that the doctor must make before seeking genetic activity. As I see it, this can also vary with regard to the disease involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e355	There has always been agreement in this room and in this country that we reject the cloning of people. I also don't know about any international research environments that would go into human cloning. On the other hand, I have nothing against Norway being a spearhead to get an international law on this. It was a slap from the representative Annelise Höegh when she claimed that it was only during the examination of Document No. 8:51 for 1997-98 that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party came to the conclusion that it was the patient who was primarily to inform. That's not right! We've all agreed on that all along – and still is. It's only when the patient doesn't want or can't, that information is going to happen. The representative Anne Enger Lahnstein had something very important, namely the right to know and the right to not know. It must be respected in both contexts! In fact, there is a large majority in Norway – at least it was when we dealt with this issue last, according to the Gallup surveys – that will know in this context. And then to this with documentation and security. I fully agree with the representative of Are Næss. There's no difference. But if you want to document the context here, you have to provide me with the help of contacting the patient! That's when you first know if it can be documented. And then finally – ethics: you question whether our researchers and clinicians have as good ethical sense as we do. And I am also asked if the representative of Alvheim has a worse ethical sense than the representative of Are Næss. That should be unnecessary! No one should tell me that you get so much better ethical sense and ethical understanding because if you are elected to the Stortinget! That ethics has to sit there before you get here. That's why it's uplifting yourself when you appear here to have a better ethical sense, a better view of value, a stronger and better view of human beings than other representatives in this room. I think you shouldn't be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e368	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1 At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 144]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e393	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 60 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e402	With tax increases lacking a parallel in recent Norwegian history, the Centre Parties and the Workers Party have made Norway a different tax policy country. The 1992 tax settlement is no longer worth the paper it is written on, and the lack of predictability in the tax system has unfortunately been made a virtue. The assumption by the tax compromise that no one should have a marginal tax higher than 50 pst. is a mere saga. Under pressure from a radicalised LO, the Workers' Party pushes all principles aside. Against all professional advice, a double taxation of dividends on shares that violates the principle of neutrality and implies that those who put their money into business should be taxed more than those who passively place the money in the bank. So late as last autumn, Jens Stoltenberg concluded in the debate that the effective tax rate for the profits of the companies had risen sharply as a result of the tax settlement. ‘So lower rates have increased taxes...’ He also said, ‘Without reform, the actual tax on capital would be lower...’ In fact, the rate was reduced, but the basis was increased much more. What happens now? Indeed, the rates for taxing dividends are greatly increased and, in addition, the basis is extended by aggravating the depreciation rules. It's not long since we in Stortinget had a Document No. Eight proposals from the Socialist Left for consideration. The proposal addressed this with double taxation. SV proposed double taxation, and the reply from the Government came from the Minister of Finance. It's mentioned in the Inner East. S. No 133 for 1997-1998, and there the Committee states: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Socialist Left Party, refers to the Ministry’s thorough review of the negative consequences for the Norwegian economy and ownership of the introduction of double taxation of dividends.’ It is naive to believe that the negative consequences do not occur and are the same one and a half years after this letter came from the ministry and the committee gave this setting. What has happened in a year and a half that means that one can defend changing such a fundamental principle from the tax compromise? Some from the Workers' Party have claimed that because the bulk of the population has hollowed out the split model, a step must be taken to implement double taxation. But that reasoning is not relevant, because the Workers' Party is proposing tightening the sharing model, so that it is similar to the divisional model it had in 1992. Nevertheless, tax increases of DKK 11.5 billion are also proposed. The proceeds of getting the split model back to the situation in 1992 were NOK 0.5 billion. It seems that it has been completely forgotten that the 1992 tax compromise was a broad consensus that rates should be lowered and that the basis should be extended. The fact that rates are now used and compared with rates in other countries without taking into account that Norway has the broadest tax base is very incalculable. With the large tax increases at the centre of the parties and the Workers' Party, Norway is at the top of Western Europe, together with Sweden, in terms of having the highest tax burden on shares and investments in business. The difference between the Swedes and us is that the Swedish Social Democratic Government, like other European governments, reduces taxes. The result for Norway is that ideas and innovation projects are realised in other countries and that oil dependence is increasing. In our opinion, the Minister of Finance, and also wrote to the Stortinget, stated that the level of taxation in Norway was already very much compared with other countries. For mainland Norway, the proportion was 47,6 p.m., and of course it has become higher with the finance minister now up to now, and as the Stortinget decided on Tuesday evening. The average in OECD is 32.4 pst. Norwegian enterprises have to deal with a level of taxation that is several times higher than the average in the OECD, where they have to deal with taxes and charges amounting to 32 pst. GDP. In Norway, Norwegian enterprises are to deal with a system where taxes and charges, with the changes that have now been adopted, represent 48 pst. This will result in the loss of competition by Norwegian companies, the addition of more investment to countries other than Norway, and the fact that the tax compromise and predictability of those who want to invest in Norway are now a mere story. As part of the implementation of double taxation of dividends on shares, the Government has proposed halving the RISK for those subject to taxation. I have to say that this half of the RISK for those who have been loyal to the system and have not taken unnecessary large dividends is also very unfair. The Right Party and the Advance Party oppose the Government's proposal to weaken the basic funds certificates, which are an important equity instrument for the regional savings bank, by amending the RISK rules also for savings banks. Fortunately, the centre parties in the negotiations with the Workers' Party were driven back the worst distortions to the active owners, in relation to the sharing model, as the Workers' Party proposed. In fact, I think that the centre parties should have a reward for that. Unfortunately, one proposal came to an end, namely to change again the rate of return on capital. It is proposed to reduce it from 5 to 4 pst. ‘... the applicable level must be considered to be higher than a reasonable risk premium’. I have to say, I am amazed that the Government believes that the risk of investing in business in relation to alternative investments has been reduced only in the past, without further justification. It must be expected that such a statement will be accompanied by a thorough documentation of what is a reasonable claim to risk. In 2000, too, the budgetary agreement between the centre parties and the Workers' Party led to a reduction in the risk add-on. A majority in Stortinget instructed our finance minister to review the wealth tax and remove it for working capital. The proposal submitted by the Council of State is limited and provides relief only for a small part of the unlisted companies. In addition, this is financed by abolishing the share discounts and the 80 pst. rule. As a result, there would be tax incentives for most of the companies, not better framework conditions, as the majority asked. The proposal to remove the stock discounts and the 80 pst rule would lead to a deterioration in business, employment and innovation. I would like to challenge the centre parties to comment on how they have now intended to follow up their proposal in ours to remove the wealth tax on working capital. If we look at Europe elsewhere, the wealth tax is becoming a strange tax. It is particularly paradoxical that the parties that speak the most of Norwegian ownership are the parties that now also support the wealth tax. It is clear that it is discriminatory when you, for example: by owning 100,000 Hydro shares in the United Kingdom, taxes on wealth are not payable, while property taxes of 1.1 pst are payable if they are owned in Norway. of the value. This does not mean that it is profitable to own in Norway. I wonder how to get out of this. What the centre batches did now in the harvest instead of proposing reliefs in the property tax they actually wanted in June was to deduct the investment tax from the flea hat. I fully agree that the investment levy should be removed. The problem is that when someone then says that a fee should be removed in a year, most people who have to go to larger investments will register it. And what happens to the Norwegian supplier industry and other supplier industry in the future? Of course, they will wait for the investment tax – hopefully – to be removed and the Stortinget to implement it. It might be interesting to see how these jobs work. The same thing was seen when the centre parties and the Workers' Party agreed to remove the special charges on television. In the last six months, almost no new television has been purchased, all waiting until 1 December, when the fee is removed. I would like to ask the centre parties how they believe that in a year's time the removal of investment taxes has been promised will have an impact on new investment in Norway? And as I said, I would also like to know how the central parties intend to follow up what was a struggle in ours, namely the removal of the property tax on working capital. Why was this not a priority in the negotiations with the Workers' Party, but suddenly another charge was pulled out of the Floss Hat?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e454	I might start by answering a couple of the questions from Børge Burnde, if it's interested. Of course, the central parties intend to follow up the decision in spring that taxes on food wealth should be abolished. It's a decision that's been made in Stortinget. The background to it being exposed in this round is that the proposal made by the Government is simply too poor and that it needs further processing. Moreover, this should naturally be part of an assessment of the tax system as a whole. In the case of the cancellation of an investment tax in a year, it is obvious that some may take account of that type of lapse. However, the supplier industry does not currently have an investment tax. Large parts of Norwegian business are already initially exempt from investment charges. Those who will now receive it are mainly the new ones who enter the VAT system, who have not been there before, and who will receive an investment tax for a year. This is also the case in a sector where there is a very high level of activity, and where it may be reasonable to limit activity on the basis of strong cost growth, etc. So over to what I really got the floor to talk about: VAT. There is a major and comprehensive case currently under consideration by the Odelstinget by taking a decision to impose a general VAT obligation on the movement of services from 1 July 2001. This will lead to compliance of VAT legislation on the movement of services with what is currently applicable to the movement of goods. The general duty obligation would result in all sales of services falling within the scope of the VAT system, unless the service is specifically exempted by the law. Several types of services, including: in the fields of health, education and culture, the Government continues to propose exemptions from the duty. A majority of the committee makes further exceptions and changes on several points that I will come back to. The proposal to reverse the scope of the VAT code on the turnover of services is based on a proposal made by the Storvik Committee in NOU 1990:11. The committee's investigation has been at a broad consultation, and the work on a VAT reform has been the subject of long-term treatment by various governments. The central government gave a broad overview of the value added tax reform in the national budget for 2000. Ideally, of course, such a comprehensive reform as this should have been presented as a big message with subsequent legislative amendments. However, a majority have chosen to deal with the comprehensive reform now, including: because the consequences of the VAT reform have already been incorporated into next year's budget, and because the reform has already been mentioned in previous national budgets and has been the subject of extensive work in different governments. In addition, the NOU underlying the decision has been known for more than 10 years. Despite this, some of the questions which would have been natural for Stortingen to go into more detail in the handling of a major report now need to be clarified by the Ministry in retrospect by the legislative decision. However, most of these conditions are of a more or less technical nature as there is broad agreement on the need for a reversal of the law. I assume that the individual parties will base their views on the matter. So I don't want to go into these, but stick to the majority position. Under the applicable law, the value added tax obligation for services depends on the explicit or interpretative definition of the service as being subject to a charge. The services to which this relates are the result of Section 13. Since there are only some types of services that are subject to a charge, this creates problems in the demarcation between taxable and non-taxable services respectively. This is e.g. the case in the field of computerisation. Electronic data processing is a chargeable service in accordance with the applicable legislation, unless computer is used only as an aid in the provision of another service, e.g. information service – then there is no charge obligation. Also mentioned is the difference between standard software in the computer sector, which is currently regarded as a chargeable product, and an individually developed software, which is a non-taxable service. The list of such borderline cases is almost endless and is growing in the light of the development of new service areas, new industries and new technologies. In view of this, it should be clear that there is a need for a general and mirrored law covering initially all goods and services, including new services, which are automatically required unless they are expressly exempted. However, within such rear-view mirrors, both political balances and balances must be made in relation to what is practicable and verifiable. The majority are against VAT on passenger transport and travel, including travel agencies, access tickets to alpine facilities and amusement parks. The majority enter in order for the vehicle to remain in zero mode. The majority go further in order for circuses to benefit from the exemption from VAT for the cultural sector and that the exemption for lotteries also applies to lotteries. The majority also goes in to reduce the VAT rate on food to 12 pst. with effect from 1 July 2001. At the same time, the general VAT rate is raised to 24 pst. with effect from 1 January 2001, but not as part of the legislative decision, but as a result of the budgetary agreement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. It is also important to note that the Government has opened up a differentiation of VAT rates through the 12 pst proposal. VAT on travel and passenger transport – two areas which the majority of the Committee will continue to exempt from VAT. Such differentiation of rates has been one of the central topics of discussion in the context of the conversion of the charging system. So far, we have had three alternatives: full rate, exemption and zero rate. Now we get half the rate as well. This provides better opportunities to include distribution, social and enterprise policy assessments to a greater extent than hitherto. The complexity of the system increases, but so does the certainty of performance in relation to distribution effects. The majority of the Committee has chosen to leave the Ministry of Finance to come back with demarcations and adjustments in a number of areas, including: because the Committee has had a short period of time at its disposal. Where the Ministry is given this power, it is not because of, but despite the picturesque letter received by the Finance Committee during the examination of the case, in which absolutely all aspects of standing, or alternatively sitting, sausages were described in detail in relation to different rates of VAT. Should it be full of sitting gasping and half the rate at standing? Would it be half the rate if you ate pizza on the spot, and full the rate if you got it brought home – or was it the other way around? Certainly important problems to deal with, but I assume that the excellent office that we have in the Ministry of Finance is now using its creativity to find simple, practical and as fair a system as possible and boundaries. The decision on halved matmoms and thereby also adherence to the principle of differentiated rates has now been taken. I assume that in the follow-up to the case they do their utmost to make the system as robust as possible. As far as I know, almost all EU countries have for the longest time adopted the principle of differentiated VAT rates and all – with the exception of Denmark – a low rate of food. Although I am not at all an equally keen champion of dividing by the EU, at least I can do my best to recommend a study trip if it becomes too complicated to develop legislation on my own. The majority of the Committee shall have as its starting point. S. No 1 pointed out that «a low-rate system for food leads to problems of demarcation in relation to the products to be covered by the reduced rate». In this respect, it must be pointed out that the proceeds calculations in the budget agreement include half-VAT on all foodstuffs, with the exception of alcoholic beverages. This implies that the contractual partners have based a broad interpretation. However, there are good reasons to pursue other considerations, such as nutritional considerations, in relation to demarcation. Whereas the necessary balances which must be made in relation to the practical and best possible use of legislation from a nutritional point of view, while reducing VAT on foodstuffs must also have the objective of reducing border trade, mean that several departments must cooperate in the formulation of regulations; I assume that these considerations are taken care of in the further work. In other areas, too, the Committee has highlighted the need for clarifications and assessments. The proposition assumes that the obligation to charge for the movement of rights to use premises, installations, etc. for the pursuit of sporting activities shall not include use in the management of sports and in the provision of activities to members, etc. However, the Ministry presupposes that this tax exemption does not significantly compete with registered traders whose turnover is similar. The Ministry also assumes that the general starting point for such a derogation is whether the sport act is, or could have been, a member of the Norwegian Sports Association or the Norwegian Olympic Committee. The majority point out that there are likely to be demarcation problems between different types of organisations and businesses offering access to the same type of premises, for example: swimming facilities, tennis courts, gymnasiums, etc., and on this basis the majority asks the Ministry to assess in detail the limitations and possible additional VAT exemptions for sporting activities and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner. For my part, I would like to add that in this context, too, political assessments have to be based on further work. Physical activity – regardless of whether it is organised under sports law, municipalities or business – needs to be stimulated. It is well known that physical activity will save society from excessive expenditure in the form of reduced sick leave and reduced health expenditure. Prevention should therefore also be stimulated through the charging system. Our climatic conditions also indicate that sports activity often has to take place indoors. I am thinking about swimming pools and also training studios, which have had a significant growth in recent years. This should be considered and taken into account in the further work. The majority of the Committee has asked the Government to come back to the revised national budget with a detailed assessment of the impact of the VAT reform on services provided by its own employees and on the purchase of services. This issue is relevant to the local government sector, to non-governmental organisations and, for example, to non-governmental organisations. for banks purchasing IT services in relation to banks which have their own employees. I assume that these assessments will also be followed up, and that together with any other limitations they will be presented appropriately to Stortinget. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e510	As a consequence of the budgetary agreement reached between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party, amendments to the Government's original draft legislative texts are proposed from these parties in order to align them with the budgetary settlement entered into. This includes, inter alia: the case with regard to the proposal for the introduction of tax on dividends on shares, proposals for changes to the divisional model, proposals for the VAT law and proposals for the tax exemptions on wealth for industrial assets. The Workers' Party is concerned that we should have a tax system that is seen as fair and which has broad legitimacy, and that the tax base is so broad that it can finance a good welfare state. The government’s tax regime is bold and addresses important tax policy challenges. It responds to the challenges facing the welfare society, in the sense that it provides a basis for increased income, on the one hand by extending the tax base through a comprehensive VAT reform, on the other hand by closing clear tax gaps, and, on the other hand, by changing the tax law that addresses the tax injustices inherent in the current tax regime. As a result of the government's proposals, those with small and medium incomes receive a tax that is roughly present or somewhat less, while those with the highest incomes have to pay significantly more, as a result of a high industrial tax. This profile will continue to be respected through the budgetary conciliation and the resulting proposals, although personal taxation will be slightly increased and business taxation will be slightly reduced. But, as I said, the initial distribution profile of the tax regime is still well maintained. The action that has the greatest redistributive effect is the Government's proposal to increase the tax on dividends on shares. The Government’s proposal involves an increase of 14 p.m. in share dividends. The central parties and the Workers' Party agree with the Government that a tax on dividends is imposed on the beneficiary's hand, but that the tax rate is set at 11 pst. with a base deduction of NOK 10000. The dividend tax and changes in the profit tax are proposed to apply from 5 September. It was the day it was announced that the proposal would come into the state budget. The point of effect was necessary in order to avoid tax-motivated collection of the company from the time the proposal became known and the end of the year. The divisional model was introduced as part of the tax reform in 1992. The principle meant that in limited liability companies, division is to be carried out if the shareholders actively involved in the operation represent more than two thirds of the share capital or are entitled to more than two thirds of the company's dividends. The main purpose of the sharing model was to prevent traders and active owners of limited liability companies from withdrawing labour income as capital income and thus getting a lower tax rate. Since the sharing model was introduced, a number of changes have been made that contribute to the eroding of the principles and original intentions by increasing labour income efforts to convert them into capital income. This development appears to be very unfair from a just point of view. Therefore, in the tax proposal, the Government proposes a number of changes to the rules for the split model. The Government proposes as follows: changes in the valuation of the capital return based reduction in the depreciation rates for the acquired goodwill changes in the identification rules restrictions on personal income – the so-called cap rules – in non-liberal enterprises As a consequence of the budgetary agreement, a majority of the Board of Directors supports the Government's proposal for a reduction in the depreciation rules and their extension and supports the proposals for a change in the valuation of the capital return basis. This results in restrictions on entrepreneurial income and is thus a step in the right direction. However, no amendments to the identification rules or proposals to limit personal income have been accepted by the working party. However, there is reason to comment on these proposals, which the Workers' Party has also previously promoted. In order not to circumvent the sharing model, it is necessary to have rules preventing owners from transferring shares to related persons solely for the purpose of avoiding sharing. On a proposal from the Right, the Stortinget adopted in June 1997 changes to the sharing model, which meant that shares could be transferred to children over 18 years of age, to parents and spouses without those shares being considered as ‘the owner of the active taxpayer himself’. The former tax-policy spokesman of the Labour Party Tore Nordtun said about this in the last year's debate that this is the closest of the bourgeois majority has come to an open invitation to legal tax evasion in recent years. I share this view. As an advocacy to the financial debate and questions about the timing of implementation, let me also remind you that this loophole in the split model was adopted in June 1997 and applied for the 1997 income year. It is important for the conclusion of a tax system that it is perceived as fair and fair. The favourable roof rules in the split model do not contribute to this. With these rules, Norway has a system whereby traders with incomes less than NOK 780000 are taxed according to the rules for the taxation of persons with approx. 55 pst., while when the income exceeds this amount, the tax becomes 28 pst. The result is that traders with normal incomes have almost twice the tax rate of those with large incomes. This lurks in people's general sense of justice. In the context of the revised budget, a majority of the Government of Stortinget asked for a proposal to exempt property taxes on industrial assets. Despite its own and strongly expressed scepticism, the government has promoted such a proposal and combined it with proposals for changes to the stock abate and the 80 pst rule. As a consequence of the budgetary agreement, the central parties and the Labour Party agree that these changes are not being implemented, and the majority vote does not include these proposals either. However, the Workers' Party has on several occasions shown the unfairness of our taxes on wealth, and has taken on board the unfairness of the fact that some property items, such as shares not listed on the stock exchange, must be significantly lower than others. We record that there is now no majority to get this done. Another piece of force taxation rules seem to be put in place with this setting. The government promotes proposals for municipal distribution of the basis for property taxes on power plants based on the recycling value of plant parts. The allocation rules are proposed to give effect to the 2001 property tax year. I need to stress that the proposal involves the distribution of the tax base between municipalities, and that does not seem to prevent municipalities from agreeing between themselves on how to distribute the tax income itself. Finally, I would like to make Stortinget aware of an error that has occurred in the setting on page 13. There's a letter quoted from the department that we got as a legal aid. In the case of an incurrency, the word ‘not’ fell out four places, and that makes the text quite different. We have received a letter from the ministry correcting this, dated 29 November 2000 and addressed to the Workers' Group, which contains a text that is consistent with what was intended. The last sentence of the last paragraph and the last paragraph of the quotation shall be replaced by the following: ‘I therefore assume that the changes in the payment for a reduction in capital either in the form of a gain on redemption of individual shares or in the form of dividends on the write-down of the share’s nominal shall not affect the reduction in capital adopted by the general meeting under the Share Act (Sections 12 to 1 of the General Share Act) before 5 September. For the gain on liquidation, the change should not take effect where the general meeting has decided to terminate the company after all./aal. § 16-1 before 5 September. For cash remuneration in the case of a merger, the change should not take effect where the general meetings of the companies have adopted a merger under Sections 13 to 4 of Section 13 to 4 before 5 September and the equivalent for a fission, the change should not take effect where the general meeting has adopted a fission after all sections 14 to 6 of Section 14 to 6 before 5 September.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e577	The President has noted the corrections made by Britt Hildeng.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e580	The Labour Party Centre Block has concluded through its cooperation that Norway needs a tax increase of nearly NOK 12 billion, and even if we have the greatest profit ever. In its original proposal, the Labour Party considered that industry should take the greatest burden on the increase. The aim was for more enterprises in the business community to be brought down or to go bankrupt, so that labour was freed for use in the public sector. The need for labour for hospitals and elderly institutions is not disputed, but that these are to be released by deliberate killing of businesses by imposing taxes and charges at such a rate and in such a way that they face certain deaths, the Progress Party is very far from doing so, and we hope that the people of Norway will carry out a fair criminal assessment against these parties at the next elections. As most people know or ought to know, competitive private sector lives in constant competition, which means that these companies must operate effectively. If they don't, they're going to go bankrupt or get laid down. In the public sector, on the other hand, and in the private protected sector, the word ‘competition’ is a foreign word. And because of the absence of competition, there are no natural incentives for efficient operation. The potential for improving the efficiency and thus freeing labour is therefore very high in these sectors. Only within the road system is the potential enormous, but also within the school, health and public administration, not to mention protected private enterprises engaged in agricultural activities, the potential is high. The introduction of competition in these sectors will cover all health workforce needs. In addition, this will free labour so that the competitive sector can continue to develop. This doesn't smell like the special interests. It is better to maintain an inefficient public and protected private sector than to keep jobs in the productive part of business, the part of the business we are going to live on when the oil adventure is over. This is called the Workers' Party Centre Block to be forward-looking. It's not all in this world that's equally logical. The proposal on short-term taxes, industrial electricity taxes, aggravation of the sharing model, VAT on services, etc. would have destroyed the process industry, the tourism industry and the transport industry. Most of these enterprises are known in the districts and are largely corner stone holdings. There are these jobs the district party of workers wants to remove. Then the center parties came on the track to save business, and the result was as expected, 11 pst. taxes on dividends on shares, increased depreciation rules, the van disappeared and cyclical taxes were introduced on buildings. But the right thing to do is to increase taxes on business in 2001, but not as much as the government's disaster proposal. But where was the bill sent? Yes, to the usual household. The usual employee received the bill. Increased electricity costs, higher VAT, 15 pst. increase in the Equation Tariff, all of which was transferred to the employees. There was no improvement with the central parties in the budget agreement. The population and business still have to pay nearly 12 billion kroner in increased taxes and taxes. The only thing that happened was that some of the tax increases were shifted from business to the usual employee. Talk about fools' games! I think it is great that from 1 July it will be cheaper food, but I do not think it is a good logic that is behind the fact that the same food from 1 January will be more expensive. This must be a more advanced logic, developed in dark spaces of wise heads that are members of the Workers' Party Centre Block. The arrangement of the government means that almost everything will be more expensive from 1 January. One might briefly sum up that everyone's going to lose in the first six months. Those who eventually become winners are those who eat little, take the bus often and go on the circus, but stay far away from the tifoli. It is probably reasonable that amusement parks in the central part of the country should be subject to VAT exemptions, while tifoli, which travels around District Norway from North Cape to Lindesnes, must be subject to VAT. But this kind of logic is too advanced for me. Those who are afraid of their assets and want to live in a safe environment will also lose weight in the VAT conversion, because the police are being weakened. And in order to give the criminals extra leeway, the guard companies are also charged VAT. Even though I don't see the logic of this, I'm sure the workers' party-center block will. Is one so unfortunate that one is subjected to an assault or other criminal act in some way so that one must engage a lawyer, that service is also charged VAT. Who is the hardest hit by this? Is it the rich that the Workers' Party Centre Block so reprehensible to talk about, or is it the least-serving who, after this block's statements, must be protected against all tax increases? It is quite clear that the so-called rich people do not have problems paying both for watchkeeping and legal services, while those who say they are protecting the workers' party centre block in party speeches are getting an increase of 24 pst. on watchkeeping and legal assistance. And this claims the workers' party-center block is to take from the rich and give to the poor. The truth is, they take from everyone and don't give to anyone. This is directly unsocial and hits those who have the least, while those who this block so reprehensible call rich, escape. The progress party wants half of the VAT as from 1 January and not as from 1 July. But we don't want to finance this with such an unsocial system that one introduces VAT on services. I simply cannot understand that a rich country such as Norway is going to hit the population in such a way, especially given that the country does not need to absorb these funds. The state simply does not need to impose more taxes on the population. Although the Labour Party Centre Block concluded that they should reduce the tax increases on business and apply these increases to the ordinary man and woman, business does not escape. In addition to the introduction of short-term taxes, dividend taxes, increased VAT, the introduction of VAT on services and an increase in electricity taxes, the depreciation rules for business and an increase in the Equation Rate of 15 pst. This actually leads to an increase in the Equation Tariff of 25 pst. over two years. This shows that even though the centre parties, with the Left in their head, try to give the impression that they are coming to business rescue and rescue them from tax increases, this is an attempt to lead the population and business behind the light. The Progress Party must ensure that they do not succeed! I refer to the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party, alone and together with other parties in case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e618	The representative Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e621	Although most of the points in the next year's tax and tax package were thoroughly debated and commented on in the financial debate on Monday and Tuesday, it is important that we also provide time for a review of some essential points in our deliberations. The Christian People's Party is hardly alone in believing that our tax system must be perceived as fair as possible. I also think we have a lot with us when we say that with the strongest economic back they have to bear the heaviest taxes, so that with a weaker economic back they can escape with lighter tax collectors. So it becomes a little bit harder to define what can be perceived to be fair, what is the definition of a strong and a weak economic back osb. On this basis, I am pleased that in the budgetary agreement between the Centre Party and the Labour Party, it has not been stated that the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2002 State Budget, will submit proposals for a new system of taxation of income from activities and capital applicable from 1 January 2002. As you know, the parties to the agreement are certain that this tax reform will be based on the following principle: a fairer distribution of neutrality between different forms of investment, financing and enterprise, an effective taxation of capital income, an approach between taxation of capital and labour so that the divisional model is liquidated so that the temporary exchange tax will be decommissioned from 2002 in the context of the introduction of the new tax system; We have a tradition of seeking as broad a term as possible in connection with tax reforms. It has to do with our tax system intervening deeply in the management system in many ways. Therefore, it is essential that changes and new systems have the broadest possible basis. On this basis, I hope that the process that is now being set up for the next year will also be a work force with broad participation, constructive input and with a strong willingness to find common solutions and with it involved in achieving common goals. In the government’s 2001 tax settlement proposal, there was an exchange tax of 14 p.m. The strong reactions to this proposal came from a number of quarters. From the business side, the danger of both locking in and flagging out was underlined. One of the loser groups could, for example: become the responsible wearers who had built up their business, literally stone on stone, and who had plaguing most of the excess back into the business and even lived on the savings flare. When they had arrived so carefully on top that they could get it a little easier even privately, the door opening would suddenly be monthly narrowed. The exchange they had previously made, without any exchange tax, but which they chose to use to build up, secure and strengthen the business, would now be taxed by 14 pst, in addition to the excess tax of 28 pst. I will not hide that the exchange tax was a difficult issue during the negotiations. Finally, in the compromise on a bottom-up deduction of NOK 10000 to protect the small savers, by reducing the tax rate to 11, by clearly and unequivocally establishing the nature of the exchange tax, in force only for the fiscal year 2001, and by ensuring a new and better tax system from 2002, we found it justified to accept the compromise. In the case of the sharing model, the budgetary agreement means that there are no changes in the identification rule for the non-liberal profession or in the so-called low ceiling. In the Christian People's Party we certainly believe that this is in the best interests of the many active owners of small and medium-sized enterprises. Although it is not difficult to find examples of both adaptation, exploitation and abuse of the sharing model, the most important thing for us is to take care of all the practical wearers who are not in any way a run-down individual with a high tax return but who are honestly concerned with securing activity, jobs and development. We do not want to get hurt to empty the child with the bath water. Then it's going to be exciting to see what we can do together in the coming years to replace the sharing model. Revised in our year, a majority in Stortinget Regieringen ordered to come back with a proposal to exempt commercial assets from property taxes. At this point, the proposal that came from the Government in connection with the submission to the 2001 State Budget was limited, and this resulted in the abolition of the share rebates and the 80 pst. rule. At this point, the signals from business were broadly consistent with the Christian People's Party's assessments. We therefore found it the best solution not to make changes to property taxes now. Sneaking together complex tax arrangements during hectic budgetary days rarely creates the great success. Therefore, it was not a difficult point in the budget agreement to agree to leave the tax on wealth at present unchanged. However, we have not changed our principal view in this matter. Therefore, we are busy, at a later stage, looking at the tax on wealth. Ot.prp nr. 1, which we are dealing with today, contains quite a number of pages dealing with municipal distribution of the basis for property taxes on power plants. With respect to reporting, this is not a very easy matter. Reality, however, has considerable consequences for the municipalities in question. There is a close link between the principle of municipal distribution and the principle of re-taxing power plants. As you know, there was a problem with the estimated proceeds on the basis of which Stortinget decided on a new valuation principle this summer. Now the finance minister has announced that he will make a proposition in a short time to correct this proceeds. I'm not going to hide that in the Christian People's Party we're a little worried that we can even get a test that's not prostheticly accurate. That's why we're very excited about what's now coming in the announcement from the Ministry of Finance. In the Christian People's Party we are, as I said, somewhat troubled – we could have thought of having a little better time. However, since uncertainty is present, the centre party has submitted a comitology note that we note that we may later find it necessary to come back to the principle of distribution when we get the announcement of the projected proceeds and the taxing principle – i.e. property tax, Section 8 – for short-term management. Of course, it would be best if the bill had a device and a content that is safe and comprehensible to all parties. Overall, the tax regime for the following year, including the obligation to a new tax system for the taxation of entrepreneurial income and capital income, is now of such a nature that we are reasonably confident that it will be likely both for business and for individuals. Then, at the bottom of my speech, I must also say a little about the VAT reform, although my good friend and colleague, the representative, Lie, will later go into the debate on this issue. We think it was high time for a reform of the VAT system. About ten years have passed since the Storvik selection came forward. Since then, VAT reform has been debated and evaluated by both play and leather. So now we're going to deal with the result. From 1 July 2001, the VAT reform is a fact – a turnaround in the fact that service turnover becomes taxable unless the service is specifically exempted by law. By keeping culture, passenger transport and travel outside the VAT system and by abolishing the investment levy from 1 January 2002, we believe that important common cultural and business interests are at stake. By getting through for halved matmoms, we have taken a distributional grip of dimensions. There is no doubt that this will have a lot to say. for families with children with a large food budget. Since the VAT reform only comes into force from 1 July 2001, there is still a reasonable time for the delimitation and arrangements to be developed by the Ministry in the light of the signals which have emerged from the financial committee's proceedings and which are now coming through Odelstinget and Lagtinget's proceedings on this matter. One of the problem areas that we are currently seeing is that the conditions for some voluntary teams and organisations in isolation can be exacerbated by the introduction of the VAT reform. This is the height of the government's task to come back to revision in the spring with a closer assessment of the impact on, among others. such organisations. We will certainly meet with others, both enlisted and unfulfilled, challenges in the further work on this difficult matter. Some things we can clear up before the date of the introduction, but it would be unwise not to include some after the introduction. However, I am overestimated that the time at hand is the inability of the VAT reform. Through the reform we will probably have a VAT system that is adapted to today's realities, which is more in harmony with the rest of the world, and which represents a broader tax base.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e688	I have a feeling that the political part of this debate is largely a case that took place in this Chamber on Monday and Tuesday, so I'm going to try to be brief. SV was very satisfied when we finally came to grips with the idea that the greatest injustice in the tax reform of 1992 was the large difference in taxes on labour and taxes on capital, and that the main reason why differences in Norway have increased throughout the 1990s is that capital income is very unevenly distributed and that they also have a very favourable tax. That is why we were very pleased when, after all these years, the Workers' Party made proposals for tax on dividends. We agree that this is in the direction that new changes in tax reforms should take place. SV also had the sense of the main action taken by the Workers' Party when they wanted to impose a business cycle tax on transferring money from the private to the public sector. Another major distribution task is to provide the standard in the public sector, i.e. public consumption is reasonably well associated with private consumption, because now the standard of many public services is far below what many are used to privately. So we agreed with the main act, and that is actually the only thing left on the proposal for a short-term tax that the Government proposed. I think maybe parts of the business, as they saw how this was replaced by other schemes, would have wanted a lot of surfaces to draw this from the business side, especially because it may have a significant impact on some significant investments in the future. SV is also aware of this by refusing to reduce the tax on petrol and diesel. This was not a very popular position during the summer, when awfully many had come to realize that this was almost the most existential question in our time, after an intense lobbying campaign by the Norwegian Petroleum Institute, which made even I was a bit annoyed once when I filled petrol in August. But then I came back a little bit, because one of the major challenges we face in environmental policy is not that the price of petrol is particularly high in Norway – it is not when you take income into account – but it is the major climate challenges we face, and I think many people may have experienced a little horror over the past few weeks. That's why we want to give priority to the budget and say, well, that means that it costs a lot, but we actually need that conversion if we're going to be able to get a real bet on public transport. The majority of population now pursue a conscious policy of increasing climate emissions in Norway. I would just like to make a few comments on the proposed VAT reform. SV disagrees with the priority of introducing half of VAT on food. We want other proposals to combat growing differences, and believe that the common good is more important to get something done about it. We also question the distribution effect of reduced VAT on food. Otherwise, we agree with the biggest steps that the Workers' Party and the Centre parties have to deal with, but with some changes. We want passenger transport, public transport, not to be exempted, but to have a zero rate. It means, therefore, a hidden subsidisation to public transport, because then you get a deduction from VAT. We just want to use all the possibilities you have to give public transport the benefits we can get. The second is that we want the same arrangement for the NRK. It is the same scheme that the newspapers have and that the programme activities of TV 2 have. It would also be a way to ensure more equal treatment of the NRK and would enable our advertising-free public broadcasters to tackle important tasks more offensively in the future. The third zero rate proposal that SV has is on the market for electric cars. In addition, SV agrees that the principle of VAT on services should be reflected, that it is not based on current consumption patterns or what we know about fair distribution, that it is fairer that services such as the system are largely excluded. But that has to be done, and it has also been agreed that some reasonable adjustments have been made to make the individual industry outbursts a little bit clearer. With this, I would like to address the suggestions that SV has in the Inn. O. No 23 and Innst. O. No 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e717	The representative Kristin Halvorsen has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e720	The current VAT reform Stortinget adopts is an important step in the renewal of the Norwegian tax system. VAT reform means that the VAT base is greatly extended by the inclusion of new services. This will apply to the services provided today, but not least to all the new service areas that come too far. This may be the largest source of income for the welfare community in the years to come. Larger VAT revenues provide the basis for reducing other taxes and taxes, in particular income taxes. By taxing consumption on a broader basis, we can just distort the taxation of taxes on work against taxes on consumption. This is in line with the green tax conversion of the Left. The reform is adopted approximately as prepared by the central government, and the central parties have clearly stamped on the outcome: the removal of the investment tax from 2002, halved VAT, not VAT on travel and passenger transport, etc. The removal of the investment tax from 2002 will be an important boost for jobs and innovation in the business world, with some relief being provided. DKK 6.5 billion. The investment fee is fragmented today. It strikes at random, and there are significant collection costs. When we remove the investment tax, it will also be an important step in the direction of the Left and Centre Party project ‘Simplify Norway’. A growing and important industry that travel life avoids VAT. This ensures jobs throughout Norway. It may be in place to remind you that travel lives are more than hotels. For example, experiences become an increasingly important part of travel life, not least because Norway has unique and natural opportunities, which are also attractive on an international scale. Bremmigration, rafting, whale safari and greater experience centres such as Nordkap are examples of such businesses in a growing and important part of travel life. After nine months in government, the Workers' Party has repeatedly contributed to the spread of pessimism in the tourism industry: the proposal for VAT on travel life, cut the appropriations for profiling Norway and opinions on shifting labour from tourism to the public sector. I hope the improvements made by the Left and Centre provide the basis for new optimism in travel throughout the country. Within the tax system, the budgetary agreement has made clear improvements for jobs and innovation in relation to the Government's proposals. The industry and voluntary Norway are releasing the increase in the employer’s contribution from the Workers’ Party. The proposals for the removal of the stock discount and the 80 pst rule have been reversed. And the main distortions in the divisional model are avoided. The most important thing, however, is the major changes in the tax system for the left and the centre have been implemented from 2002 — a much simpler and fairer tax system with the convergence between taxes on labour and taxes on capital and the removal of the sharing model. In doing so, we can strengthen the business and value creation of the future, while ensuring better distribution. The budgetary agreement establishes this by means of the following principles: approximation of taxes on labour and taxation on capital, so that the divisional model abolishes effective taxation of capital income more equitable distribution of neutrality between different forms of investment, financing and activity; This new tax system will also replace the temporary dividend tax, which automatically lapses from 2002. Error taxes will result in both a sharp increase in the deductions from the base and a significant decrease in the peak tax. The tax system is becoming more effective. Work is increasing, working becomes more profitable. Those who earn the least receive the greatest tax relief. The higher incomes receive a lower tax on the last penny you earn. It is also natural that, in the long term, reduced marginal taxes reduce pay differentials. At the same time, the tax base implies an increase in the tax on capital. There must be neutrality between different forms of capital income, so that the capital is used where it is the most profitable. We will thus avoid the problems of the temporary dividend tax, where direct investment in business and jobs is taxed more heavily than other capital positions, for example. deposits. It is primarily the difference in capital income that gives the large differences in income and wealth in Norway. Increased capital taxation and reduced taxes on labour through large deductions and reduced marginal taxes will therefore have better distributive effects than the current strong progressive taxation of labour income. It's a myth that we need to have a strongly progressive tax system to ensure good distribution. Errors with large deductions from the left model will result in much better social cohesion. In addition, the positive effects on the economy are due to reduced efficiency losses and increased labour supply. The infamous split model that punishes active owners in its own enterprise is precisely a result of the large differences in taxes on labour and capital. The sharing model affects those who work in their own company. Active owners must tax up to 55 pst. the income, while the passive owners release 28 pst. tax. By approximating the tax rates on labour and capital, the split model may be abolished. This will also give us a significant simplification of the tax system. A simpler and more transparent tax system will also be fairer. Today, they with large resources can make extensive tax adaptations to save taxes. Usual employees do not have these possibilities. A simpler tax system will primarily benefit those with ordinary income. The 2001 budget agreement states that the new tax system of 2002 will be based on neutrality in the tax system and the convergence between taxes on labour and taxes on capital. The left is against a system of progressive surplus taxation, as the Labour Party is discussing in its draft budget. Progressive surplus taxation will have a number of weaknesses. Firstly, such a system of neutrality breaks down. Moreover, companies that do well will be penalised with extra high tax burden. In addition, such a system would mean that enterprises with low equity, such as: knowledge establishments will be able to obtain significantly higher taxes than other establishments. In addition, progressive profit taxation will require a very complex regulatory framework and, if possible, even more adjustments than the sharing model. Not many months have passed since a global political environment in Norway was concerned about what we will live on in the future, how to close the growing value-creating gap. The more surprising it is that the Workers' Party assesses a system that penalises to the degrees the innovations that will solve this task. With faulty taxes, we avoid these problems. The system is simple and fair, encourages innovation and provides good distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e782	The basis for reforms in the VAT system was laid in the decision of the Storvik Committee as early as 1990. The extension of consumption taxes to services has nevertheless led many governments to submit the reform. The period we applied for membership of the EU and the impositions that any EU membership would have given us also allowed for waiting time in relation to the VAT reform. In recent years, the suspension may have been linked to the many considerations of multi-party minority governments. That is why, in the seventh place, it has become the government of Stoltenberg which is promoting this necessary reform. The old VAT law was ripe for modernisation. The legislation we have operated on until today has been slightly altered since the adoption of the VAT Act in 1969. Since then, there have been new forms of turnover, such as: electronic commerce, received. Because it is important that a charging system be neutral, it is also essential that the law does not make any difference, among other things. electronic commerce and other trade. Our consumption pattern has also changed. The share of services in consumption has increased from 39 pst. from total private consumption in 1978 to 46 pst. in 1999. The aim of the Workers' Party is to promote tax policy reforms, so that a broader tax base, simpler rules and fewer loopholes are provided. The principle behind the VAT system is that there should be a general, not anti-competitive, consumption charge. Our old legislation lacked the flexibility and adaptability required to follow up overall societal developments. The implementation of a reversal of the VAT system to apply initially to all consumption, both goods and services, has actually led to the idea being adapted to the possible. In the original proposal of the Workers' Party, exemptions were provided for services wholly or partly subsidized by the public. These were health services, social services, educational services, sport and culture. Allow me to say that the progress of a variety of interest groups has been large and detailed. No one should be able to say that business organisations are not involved in the policy changes in the charging policy! Some of their references have been logical and very understandable, others more complex and demanding. The working party, which, as regards the other budget, has agreed with the centre parties on a future VAT system. The biggest change in principle relates to differentiated VAT on food with a rate of 12 pst. The financing of half the food tax but also other adjustments in the budget, including: the reduction of fuel taxes has occurred in the case of an increase of the general rate of VAT to 24 pst. For me, coming from the border counties of Hedmark, relief in both fuel taxes and food is important in relation to what one has seen up to now, namely a dramatic increase in border trade. The fact that travel is also exempted will be of great importance to a highly competitive district industry. I would like to mention that exemption from passenger transport also means that ski lifts are exempt from VAT, which is absolutely necessary to ensure this part of travel life. The legislation we are now adopting places great demands on the Ministry's design of regulations by 1 July 2001. I am sure that in the debate here today we will meet many amusing moments associated with a demanding demarcation, among other things. for food. Here it is not least up to the Department to choose formulations that do not unnecessarily bring us into the media's websites. With regard to the content of the concept of travel life, I think it will also be clarified in the ministry's communication with the bulk of the population. A number of new traders will be subject to VAT after this treatment in Stortinget. It's probably necessary to have a certain period of time between the adoption of the law here in Stortinget until it is implemented. The majority therefore agree with the Government’s proposal that the extension of VAT be implemented from 1 July 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e801	I would like to start by referring to the case spokesperson Odd Roger Enoksen's thorough review of the VAT reform and the Odelstinget setting. I agree with his point of view and the review he has made by the committee's recommendation. There is a necessary reform that is now being implemented, and it was also necessary to make relatively significant changes in what was presented by the Government to ensure that the reform will have a positive impact on the development of our society as we all want. From the Christian People's Party's side we are very pleased with a package of the VAT reform where we get halved food tax, and where there is exemption from travel and collective passenger transport. Our view has always been that VAT reform must be a zero-sum game. Half of the food tax has been given the greatest attention since it was delivered by the Committee, but at the same time it is also important for me to add that the exemption for travel and public passenger transport can have a great deal to say both for industry in the districts and for the environment in order to increase public transport. There are two areas I would like to mention in particular, and they are both related to the budgetary agreement between the Centre Party and the Labour Party and the assessments to be made by the Ministry to the revised national budget. The first concerns the relationship between the service provided by the owner and the purchase of the service. Too many research institutions will make these assessments decisive for their further development. As the Committee has been aware through the input of the management of the proposition, these institutions fear that if a general exemption is not granted under VAT law § 70, they may risk receiving VAT on funds from the Norwegian Research Council in spite of the fact that the proposition states otherwise. Moreover, a few things have to be allowed to compensate for the public’s purchase of research, into a permanent arrangement. I consider this to be a serious and thorough evaluation by the department in connection with the feedback to Stortinget. Research and development is very important for the development of our business and also important for good public administration. Public purchases of research services from part of the institutions, and if we are to keep up and increase research efforts in Norway, it is important to avoid distortions of competition. I expect the Minister of Finance to ensure that these issues are carefully assessed, and that a good solution is also found for the research institutions that are entrusted with both private and public matters. I will also mention new Section 5(b) and financial services. The area I would like to point out here is for national and regional investment companies operating financial activities. It is very important to clarify whether their activities should be exempt from the fee obligation. I believe that it should be possible, in view of the legislation to be drafted into new Section 5b, paragraph 4(f), to obtain services provided by investment companies, and I would ask the Ministry to have this carefully assessed in the context of the feedback promised in the revised national budget. In this context, I would like to highlight the situation in Sweden and the clarifications that need to be made to define investment companies. In point 6 of the budget agreement, the situation of voluntary organisations following the introduction of the VAT reform is particularly marked. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, I would like to stress very strongly that we do not want the conversion of the VAT system to have a negative impact on the third sector. Therefore, I must stress that the assessments to be made until May 2001 aim to ensure that the third sector comes out of this reform without entailing excessive costs. As a summary, I would like to say that there is an important reform that is currently being agreed by the Odelstinget, a reform that has been much better since it was ‘processed’ in the Financial Committee, and after the central view of the Christian People's Party and the other two Centre Parties has been put into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e820	The President will note that the time for the morning meeting is up. In doubt, the President will propose that the meeting continue until today's map has been completed. It says two speakers on the list of speakers, and then we have voting. There are no objections to this proposal, and the President sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e823	Odelstingen is currently addressing an important reform by proposing the introduction of a general VAT on services with effect from 1 July 2001. There is no doubt that this is an over-mature reform. The Norwegian VAT system has remained largely unchanged since 1970. A reform of the system has therefore been announced for several years, in which also the movement of services in general becomes taxable in the same way as the movement of goods. The Storvik Committee made its proposal for a general VAT on the turnover of services as early as 1990. The starting point of the Government’s proposal was the establishment of a more modern VAT system where exceptions are clearly defined, but where we protect certain competitive sectors and areas of particular importance for individuals. Among the areas where the Government initially wanted to exempt were organised sport, culture, health services and education. One important argument for implementing the reform is that the Norwegian VAT system has been taken into account with the systems in other countries. It is important to be aware that today's VAT system is being practised in 116 countries in all parts of the world and that the number is increasing. In all OECD countries with a VAT system, a general VAT on services has been introduced as a general rule, but until now in Norway it has been the opposite which has been the starting point, namely the general exemption for services. Nevertheless, some services are subject to VAT. It has caused strange results and unfortunate distortions of competition. VAT is one of the main sources of funding for our public welfare services. The consumption of services has grown and is expected to grow more strongly than the consumption of goods. In addition, new services are increasingly entering the market. It is therefore important that new service areas are subject to VAT. In order to ensure the financing of welfare goods in the future, it is particularly important that the turnover of services is also captured by the VAT system. I have noticed that representatives from the Right and the Advance Party have wanted to postpone the reform, and that they have been amazed at the so-called urgency of the Government to impose VAT on services. I'm on my side amazed at what you put in the concept of urgency. This reform has, after all, been announced since 1990. In addition, important principles for such a reform were presented with a broad reference in the central government budget last autumn. The central government then announced the presentation of concrete proposals for changes before Easter this year. I am pleased that the central parties working on the budget agreement supported the main steps proposed by the Government in relation to the VAT system. At the same time, the comparison made at individual points in relation to the Government’s proposal meant, first and foremost, that the VAT rate would be raised from 23 to 24 pst. with effect from 1 January 2001. Furthermore, the Government’s proposal for VAT compensation on meat is replaced by a general reduction in the VAT rate on food to 12 pst. from 1 July next year. Furthermore, the agreement led to the exclusion of several service areas from the VAT system. It concerns passenger transport, accommodation and the provision of such services. In addition, access to amusement parks and alpine facilities will be excluded, as will circuses and lotteries. Furthermore, we agreed that the turnover of electric cars should be zero as of 1 July 2001. During the work on the proposal for VAT reform, the Government was concerned with the framework conditions for the tourism sector. However, we found it most appropriate to propose a reduction in VAT for passenger transport and overnight stays, as the Bondevik government also called for in the national budget last autumn. This is because such an extension of the VAT system would mean a significant simplification of the procedures for individual industries, including: hotel activities which are also serving are subject to VAT and fall outside the scope of the VAT system. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that enterprises which are now subject to VAT are also entitled to deduct VAT from their purchases and investments. For overnight stays, this would mean that they could deduct the VAT rate of 23 pst. on investments, while the value added tax would be 12 pst. According to the Ministry of Finance's calculations, it would give a possible total price increase of less than 5 pst. for the overnight sector, while the price effect on passenger transport would be very limited as a result of different compensation schemes. Similarly, the Government was also committed to lowering food prices, not least with a view to reducing border trade. Meat is the most important commodity for the Nordics who trade in Sweden. That is why we proposed a VAT compensation scheme for meat. It was a targeted measure that would also be easy to deal with for business as well as for authorities. A majority of the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties are now in favour of reduced VAT on food as of 1 July. To the extent that we have challenging work to ensure clear demarcations, the Government will work until 1 July to arrive at the most simple and predictable legislation for the implementation of these decisions. The Ministry has provisionally estimated the proceeds of such a measure to be in the order of NOK 6.5 billion on an annual basis. In the light of the decision taken by the Grand Duchy, the Ministry referred to above will work to find appropriate limits. And since the detailed demarcation is not finally clear, I have made the Storting aware that the proceeds are uncertain. As a result of the budgetary agreement, the Investment Tax Act shall be repealed with effect from 1 January 2002. The investment fee is a strange and hollowed-out fee that we have long wanted to remove. The Government of the Workers' Party has already proposed in the 1992 tax reform that the investment levy should be abolished, but so far a majority in the Stortinget has not prioritised it in relation to other changes that it has also wanted to implement. Now it's a majority for such a change. The aviation framework conditions have been updated this autumn. ESA has required equal rates on domestic and international routes and, in principle, on all domestic routes. The result is that air travel to and from abroad is cheaper by reducing the fee from NOK 232 to NOK 128 per person. passenger. At the same time, domestic flight rates are increased from NOK 116 to NOK 128, and the fee will cover several domestic flights. However, the government maintains that this charge should not include routes to, from and within North Norway, except Bodø and Tromsø. However, the tax burden will increase for the national routes in South Norway for those cases where no charge has been paid. It was therefore important for the Government to ensure a zero rate for aviation in the VAT system. The zero rate implies that the activity is subject to full deductibility but shall not calculate the VAT resulting from turnover. In isolation, the zero rate means an relief of 300 million. kr for domestic aviation per year; years, and this is the most targeted means of countering a significant increase in the tax burden on domestic air routes. Moreover, the government’s proposal implies that a number of services are now subject to VAT. This applies, inter alia, to: legal services, consultancy and consultancy services, debt collection and credit reporting services, computer services and broadcasting services with the exception of the NRK licence, etc. While commission research becomes mandatory, other research is excluded. A service of which the Government has been particularly concerned is the provision of legal services to ordinary consumers. In the opinion of the Government, it is important for legal certainty that everyone can have access to such assistance, including those with a weak economy. That is why we are proposing to raise the income limit for free legal aid. Government is in a special position because it does not have the right to deduct VAT and will have increased costs when more than one service becomes taxable. The government has proposed that both the State and the municipality be compensated for the additional costs resulting from the extension of the VAT obligation. VAT reform is an important and necessary contribution to the renewal of tax systems in Norway and time is more than ripe for its implementation. A general duty on services helps to bring the Norwegian Regulatory Authority more into line with international legislation. We now have a more robust and forward-looking system, adapted to a society where service provision plays an increasingly important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e857	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e860	I will not use the time to justify why the Right will oppose the implementation of the reform now. We have justified this in a very comprehensive debate in the past, in connection with our proposal to send the matter back. But I have two concrete questions. At all events, it may be said that the delimitation of what should be exempt from tax on services and what should be covered seems poorly prepared. In the financial debate it was from among others. speakers from the Workers' Party raised questions as to what is meant by the exemption of the tourism industry. A strong increase in the tourist industry is, among other things, experience and activity companies. Are they covered by the concept of tourism? Can the Council of State give a fairly specific opinion on this, as the question has been raised in opinions to the Department, in consultation with the Committee and in the financial debate we have put behind us? My other question concerns the preparation of the tax reform mentioned in the budget agreement. It has been stated by representatives of the settlement parties, in particular from the Christian People's Party, that this reform is an invitation to a broader settlement. How is it possible when the content of the reform is not known before it is entered as part of a budget for 2002? You will not, as far as I understand, go the way of investigation, of the Commission, of the hearing, of the notification of big business. All of this was part of the 1992 tax reform and enabled a broader settlement. So you want to put it in a budget, and a budget after today's treatment system does have the effect that it only requires the necessary majority and is rarely subject to broad political compromises, to say the least. It's never been. By its very nature, the method of treatment that has been proposed is closed, both in conflict with, among other things. what the previous government parties claim – and in its form also not an invitation to wider settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e869	The representative pointed out that the proposal to limit VAT on food seemed unprepared. Yes, of course. The Government has not proposed a lower VAT on food, nor has the Government proposed a short-term economic tax on industrial buildings. There are results of the treatment in Stortinget, and then it is of course also that the Government does not have a final arrangement for the limitations that need to be implemented here. It also implies the need to prepare these limitations through regulatory work. We will, of course, do that, and we will do it in a way that we consider to be best suited to the interests of the majority of the Grand Duchy. With regard to the delimitation of the VAT reduction for food, we will be able to draw on the experience that you have, among other things. from Sweden. But there is no doubt that there are complicated boundaries in certain contexts, and it is therefore useful that we have the time until 1 July to make all of these boundaries. Similarly, compared to the short-term building tax, some of the questions raised by the department have also become known. In that case, some of the limitations are directly reflected in the comments made by the Financial Committee in the vote. Of course, they will be taken into account, but there are also some grey areas around what will have to be clarified through regulation and through practice. The Government will seek to do that, and then I will base the intentions contained in the budget agreement on which the vote is based. So the representative raised questions about what about experiences. In the case of large experience facilities such as: Kristiansand Tierepark, Norgesparken TusenFryd, Hunderfossen and, for that matter, the Nordkaplatået, is reasonably clear that these are examples of installations that will come within the exemption. Then we have to make boundaries in relation to different activities that can be defined as travel life, and that are also experiences. It is among the limitations that we are now going to make in the ministry in the light of the decision taken by the Stortingen, but it is not possible for me today to give a clear definition of how far the derogation will extend.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e880	The Minister of Finance confirmed in his reply to the representative Foss, something we have suspected that the new business cycle fee for construction and halved VAT on food has not been particularly well prepared conversions. We now receive daily enquiries related to the short-term tax on barley, where there are many grey zones. What I could imagine asking the Minister of Finance about is the new tax reform that the Council of State is notifying, where he says he wants to introduce a progressive corporate tax. A progressive corporate tax shall be based on a higher tax rate for enterprises that make a high profit — and profits that exceed a certain level of equity. What's interesting is how to go in and calculate the company's equity. A mature company with large equity would then be able to get a low tax rate because it has a moderate return on the capital that lies there. A newly-started IT company, where the majority of the capital is the skills of the workforce, will be able to make money, and will then receive a high tax rate on large parts of its profits. Is this a tax model that will encourage the enterprises of which we want more, namely knowledge-oriented and knowledge-based enterprises? Does the Minister for Finance consider it appropriate to have a tax system for enterprises where companies with a high return on equity are to be penalised? I actually thought that the company's task was to provide high performance, a performance that can be reinvested in other jobs and in other investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e889	Let me first stay with some comments that the representative Burnde made in his speech earlier today in the debate. He referred to the tax compromise in the context of the 1992 tax reform and to the government’s departure from it. I must then be allowed to show that there have been significant deviations from the compromise reached by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy around the reform in 1992. Most obviously, it is through the ejaculation that has occurred through the splitting model, which has led to a significant decrease in distribution properties. It would have been restored by some of the proposals put forward by the Government in connection with the budget of the year, but important proposals both in terms of identification and ceilings have not been accepted. Another major breach of the tax compromise was the shipping tax, which will break fundamentally with the neutrality that very many have pointed out as an important element of the tax compromise. Then I also want to show that Norway has a low corporate tax rate in international terms. We have been concerned by the Government that we need to improve the distribution properties of the system, while taking into account neutrality. We have said that it means that we are working on a reform, where we base a slightly higher tax on particularly high returns. I have said that we need a little more time to prepare such a model than what was possible to have available before the 2001 budget. We will continue to work on it. The compromise reached by a majority in the United Kingdom is based on the same principles as set out in the national budget and does not violate it. This means that the work of the Government will continue in this area, and we will return to it in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e901	I'd like to give the Minister of Finance one piece of advice. If you're wondering what to answer, you're going to answer the question. If you're wondering what to say, say it as it is. What is the case is that the government party, the Workers' Party, has lost sight of its view of dividends tax. In 1998 they went against. So you say you're now going in for the last thing you did, because there's been such a significant change, and that's what you call the ejection of the division model. But that was also the case in 1998. It hasn't happened since 1998. This is also the reason why Norway has a low capital tax rate in international terms. It is turning to the arguments used in favour of the 1992 tax reform, namely that low rates were an intended effect of the tax reform, because the basis was extended. Low rates, however, led to more taxes, because they had previously had a much narrower basis, i.e. taxed more. Then one cannot turn to the argument ten years later and say that we have such low rates internationally, and compare with countries that have a completely different basis. I have to return to my attempt to ask the Minister of Finance what he means by the tourism industry. I didn't ask for food. I did not ask about the short-term tax on barley. I did not ask for an experience facility, which was what the council responded to. I asked about the experience companies. Since this is not a new question for the Minister of Finance – the same question was raised in the financial debate by his party trap Eirin Faldet – I figured that I could remember it, just to make the Council reasonably prepared for the question. So it's been up a couple of days. So I repeat that question: are experience companies as part of the tourism industry now exempt from VAT, or are they not? So I finally give the Council of State the opportunity to answer the question he did not answer: how will he prepare a tax reform in a way that makes it transparent, consultations on it and opportunities for wider conciliation than just as part of a budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e910	As for what I answered by questions from the representative Foss, it was so broad that it was fully possible to understand his questions so that he also asked questions about which limitations were to be made in general. In terms of more concrete, as he repeats here, it falls under what I've explained. Here there is a need for further demarcations through the regulatory work in the ministry. It is not the case that the Ministry of Finance is prepared to answer all the questions relating to the limitations to be made. That is why I am pleased that there is some time until the implementation of the reform. But it is – and I would like to stress it very strongly – that when the Ministry of Finance makes proposals for reform, it is, of course, well prepared, but it cannot be expected that the Ministry of Finance and the Government will be prepared for a reform carried out as a result of the treatment in the Grand Duchy. Then we will loyally follow the decisions made by Stortinget, try to align ourselves to the comments given and to the agreement that has been reached, and do so in the way that we believe is as consistent as possible. Moreover, there are also important limitations that can be seen from the amounts drawn up by the contracting parties in the contract, from the effect of the limitations that should be, for example. in the case of travel life, which are important points of understanding in the extent of the derogation. So the question of dividend tax. Yes, the Workers' Party has been against a tax on dividends on the recipient's hand. But it's true that if you come to the conclusion that the situation is now different, it's quite possible to take a different position. We have. We believe that there are important reasons for that. One important reason is that the distribution of dividends has become increasingly skew, there has been a higher volume of dividends and there are ever more skews. Another is that the distribution characteristics of the tax system have been eroded. That is why we believe it is right to take action to restore it. On the issue of a broader consensus around the reform, we will aim to have transparency with regard to business and the parties affected. The proposal will be made in connection with the budget for next year. A separate message will not be submitted in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e923	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e926	On the right, it is a problem that VAT reform has not been treated in a democratic way. Today's legislative amendments, which include a general rate of VAT on services, are based on an investigation completed in 1990. The committee's investigation was then sent to the hearing. But the amendment is based on a ten-year-old hearing. There are many relevant business organisations and companies that have not been allowed to comment on the legislative amendment proposal at all. This is a democratic problem. The many requests received by the Committee also bear witness to this. The law is based on a reversal of current legislation, so that, in principle, all goods and services are subject to VAT unless an explicit exemption is granted. This approach is supported by the right. We believe that such a system captures the development of new goods and services in society. But why we don't go into this law change now, we've explained earlier, I'm not going to get into it more closely now in this round, when we seem to have as bad a time as we have at the end of the meeting. But I would like to say that when we now have the law of treatment, the Right will follow up its promises. We therefore agree that the tourism industry, passenger transport and culture, including sport, should not be subject to VAT. On the other hand, we do not agree with the limitations of the majority today. It might be enough to refer the question of halved VAT on food to the budget debate. But I find it necessary to stress again that this is the least targeted distribution policy that has been adopted for many years, whether the aim is now to reduce border trade, to support families with children or to support agriculture. When you finance this by increasing the general rate of VAT to 24 pst, you're asking for more than full. However, the positive thing is that there is a willingness to remove the investment levy from 1 January 2001. But unfortunately, the question of how this is to be financed hovers in the blue. Right will strongly warn against increasing the general rate of VAT or other tax increases. The Ministry writes several places in the proposition on the difficult questions of demarcation, on what to exempt, and what should be subject to a charge. This is clear from the Government's proposals and the amendments proposed by the majority. It is surprising to note that circuses and fixed experience centres, such as the ThousandsFryd and the North Cape plateau, and perhaps also the Badeland in Telemark, will be exempt from tax liability, while travellers will probably be subject to tax on the provision of hunting services and brets. Because the proposal specifies that there should be experience centres, there is no mention of experience companies. Even more difficult is the delimitation of the field of sport. VAT shall be levied on the sale of training cards in training studios, but the duty shall not include the use of such studios under the control of sports teams in the context of training offers to members. The condition for the exemption is that this does not occur in significant competition with registered business. Here it's done for a lot of an interpretation question. The normal thing is that small sports teams buy services from training studios. Will it be with VAT or without VAT? The small sports teams can cooperate with the big ones, because they usually have training studios themselves. But then we have the practice that they should not be able to compete with commercial operations. So here again it'll be able to do for interpretation questions. But if you then force the sports laws to pay VAT, you'll eventually get the break of all the little sports throughout the country. The inconsistency is that on the part of the state, there is a strong desire for people in general to have a lifestyle that involves regular physical activity. And for today's population, it means training at S.A.T.S. and other training studios. This activity is subject to a full charge, while for example: Potato gold and chocolate, which are a contributing factor in the need to train, receive half a fee. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get Meal delivery services have had and are going to have full VAT, while, as I understand it, there will be half of the VAT on food we buy in kiosks and in gas stations. If the food is served, it's full VAT. If you carry it yourself, it's half VAT – and it's on the same type of food. Similarly, the legislative proposal must be such as to understand that physiotherapists and chiropractors, who have training offers, will be exempted from the fee obligation. The value added tax on research services is another area where difficult limitations will arise as the legislative proposal exists. I wonder about the discrimination between stand-alone housing laws and housing laws. Stand-alone housing laws have to pay VAT on the purchase of their business conduct, while housing law related to housing laws is exempted. There is no justification for this limitation in the proposition. I have taken some of the most grotesque examples of unwarranted boundaries. There's a lot of them in the proposition, in health care, financial services, etc. And I have also not addressed the distortion of competition between public and private services, where public authorities are exempt from VAT and private individuals are subject to VAT, even if it is the same service. The whole body of bad proceedings and the fact that the case has not been on the mandatory consultation round. In addition, it is now also open to graduated VAT. Why half VAT on food and not on diapers – there is no justification either – or why not graduated VAT on medicines, when now food supplements have it? I guess the lobby business is going to increase by hundreds of percent in the years to come. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that has been put forward by the Right in Innst. O. No 23rd Last@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e966	The representative of Kjellaug Nakkim has drawn up the proposal she referred to. No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. Two and three. [[Footing, see page 146]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e976	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 - 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e982	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 2, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1019	There is an aberrant proposal here, proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party: ‘In Law No 5 August 1994 56 on the medical use of biotechnology is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1093	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1166	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1175	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1186	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1192	Here the President will make note that when it comes to Inner. O. No 23, which is distributed to the representatives, is the single copy which does not contain the pages between 96 and 112. The President hopes that those who have received such a copy will not be in trouble during the vote. 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 2, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastisen proposed no. 3 and 4, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 5, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right proposal No. 6, by Kjellaug Nakkim on behalf of the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen on proposal No. 7-9, by Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 10, by Kjellaug Nakkim on behalf of the Right-wing proposal No. 11 and 12, from Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 13, from the representative Steinar Bastisen, is not presented. The suggestions have been entered in the settings on pages 101-104. The President shall, first of all, accept motion No. 9) by Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European The following two proposals are similar and have the following wording: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a ban on the publication of the tax lists, in combination with a system of concession for access to the tax lists, where specific information on the individual taxpayer is needed.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1299	The central party and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1324	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1671	The Progress Party, Right, Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastisen have warned that they are moving against § 4-7 no. 3rd@item: inlistbox So that's going to be a little bit above number. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1698	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law 13 June 1980 No. 24 on Equation Management is amended as follows:§ 6-17 paragraphs The first sentence shall be replaced by the following:Taxtes shall have copies of the tasks referred to in Sections 6 to 16(c) and 6 to 13(c). 3 not later than 5 February of the year following the year of income, provided that the other period is not provided for in its own rules.» [[Equation Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1727	The President will vote on proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, that § 8-8 is deleted. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Law of 13 June 1980 No. 24 on Equation Management is amended as follows:Sections 8 to 8 are deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1751	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1770	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right, Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law 13 June 1980 No. 24 on Equation Management is amended as follows: 4 the second sentence shall be replaced by the following: Where tax payers have provided pre-filled declarations and are included in the first tax list to be published, a complaint against the equation shall be lodged by 15 August or within six weeks of its publication.’ [[Equation Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e1827	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastisen have warned that they are moving towards the second and third sentences.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2082	The central party and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2118	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Representative of Bastisen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2304	The progress party here wants to vote against I.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2406	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2425	Here the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Left Party have warned that they are moving towards it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2515	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2573	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2623	Before we go to voting on IV, the president will allow us to vote on a number of proposals that are not alternative to paragraphs in the option. That is the proposal No. Three, five, six, eight, and twelve. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 3, from the Progress Party, the Right and the Representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2692	The President then refers to voting proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:§ 6-18 is replaced by the following:Deductions are not granted for the union quota.§§ 6-19 and 6-20 are deleted.§ 6-21 becomes § 6-19 and § 6-22 becomes § 6-20.§ 6-50 fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: Deductions are granted according to the rules of this paragraph only if the gift is at least SEK 500 in the year in which the gift is given. [[tax laws]] A maximum deduction shall be made for gifts under this paragraph of SEK 900 per year.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2001 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2726	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 6, by the Right and the representative Steinar Bastisen, with the exception of § 6-80, third paragraph, first sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6 to 32 is replaced by the following: The minimum deductions calculated by and given in income covered by the first subparagraph of Sections 6 to 31 (a), (c), (d), (e) or (e) shall be determined at an amount equal to 24 pst. [[tax laws]] of this income. The current second, third, fourth and fifth sentences shall become the third, fourth, fifth and sixth sentences.Articles 6 to 81, first paragraph, point (a) shall be replaced by the following: From the month in which the taxpayer reaches the age of 70, a special deduction shall be made in the general income of SEK 1529 per person. start of month. The spouses have the same entitlement to the same special deduction as the same.Sections 6 to 81, second paragraph, are replaced by the following:From the month in which the taxpayer receives a preliminary unpaid salary under paragraphs 12 to 16 of the Swedish Social Security Act or a disability pension because the acquisition capacity is reduced by at least 2/3, a special deduction is granted in general income of SEK 1529 per person. the second paragraph of Section 15-5 is replaced by the following:The deduction is made in the tax calculation of SEK 15600 in Class 1 and SEK 31200 in Class 2 but does not take effect in the calculation of social security contributions and top taxes.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2001 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2765	The President will then vote on proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:(a) of the first paragraph of Section 6 to 81 shall be replaced by the following:As from the month in which the taxpayer reaches 70 years, a special deduction shall be made in the general income of NOK 1 720 per person. start of month. [[tax laws]] The spouses have the same right to the special deduction as the same.Sections 6 to 81, second paragraph, are replaced by the following:From the month in which the taxpayer receives a preliminary unpaid salary under paragraphs 12 to 16 of the Swedish Social Security Act or a disability pension because the acquisition capacity is reduced by at least 2/3, a special deduction is granted in general income of SEK 1 720 per person. start of month. IIThe amendments shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2001 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2793	The President will then vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 4-12 is replaced by the following:Non-listed shares are valued at the share's proportional share of the total tax assets of the limited liability company or public limited liability company on 1 January of the preceding year, broken down by denomination.§ 6-32, first paragraph, first and second sentences are replaced by the following:Minimum deductions are fixed at an amount equal to 25 pst. [[tax laws]] of the sum of income covered by Sections 6 to 31. The minimum deductions calculated by and given in income covered by paragraphs 6-31(a), (c), (d), (e) or (e) of the first subparagraph shall be determined at an amount equal to 26 pst. of this income. The current second, third, fourth and fifth sentences become the third, fourth, fifth and sixth sentences.§ 12-11, first subparagraph, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Share or share owned by the asset is equal to the share or share owned by the active taxpayer even in the calculation of personal income in accordance with § 12-10, first paragraph, points (b) and (c). Related are the relatives of the taxpayer in the straight-up or straight-up line, the spouse, the roommate, the sibling and the parents and children of the spouse or the cohabiter. Dividends or share of profits receivable or receivable by related persons are equal to the taxpayer's share or share.§ 12-16, second paragraph, are deleted. The third subparagraph shall become the second paragraph.§ 12-17 shall be repealed.§ 17-10 and § 17-11 and the corresponding sub-heading shall be repealed.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2001 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2845	The President has understood it so that the Progress Party here will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2877	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2914	Here you can select an alternative between the setting and that part of proposal No. 6, from the Right and the Representative Steinar Bastisen, which was not contested before. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Articles 6 to 80, first sentence of the third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The special deduction shall be SEK 5 200 for each dependant, up to 4 persons.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2952	The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Left Party have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e2991	The President has understood that the Progress Party, the Right and the representative of the Bastisen want to vote against the third sentence that the changes under III will come into force with effect from 5 September 2000, while the Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left want to go against the fifth sentence on the agricultural deduction. The third sentence is first voted on, where the Progress Party, the Right and the representative of the Bastisen have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3005	There will be so much vote over the fifth sentence, where the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Left Party have warned that they will go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3016	And then the rest of the sentences under VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3077	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3089	It's going to be over the heads of the laws and laws of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3098	Law decisions will be sent to Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3104	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 2 and 3, by Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President first takes up the proposal No. 1 and 3. Proposal No. 1, from Kenneth Svendsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a legislative proposal to reflect the obligation to pay for services, without currently exempting services.’ Proposal No. 3, from Kristin Halvorsen, says: ‘The Government requests the setting up of a public body to review the investment levy with a view to a profit-neutral conversion in which the tax base is extended and the rate reduced.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3156	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3226	First of all, there's going to be a vote over the first paragraph, number one. 1 letters a and b. The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3239	Letters c and d will be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3248	Letters e, f, g and h are taken up foraging. The Prom, Right and Representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3261	Point 1 of the first subparagraph 2 will be drawn up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3270	Point 1 of the first subparagraph The third and second terms are taken up for voting. The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3330	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3393	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3432	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3471	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3505	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3516	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from Socialist Left Party to § 14. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax is amended as follows: point 14 of the second paragraph. 5 shall be deleted.’; [[VAT Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3545	Here, the Progress Party, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have announced that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3556	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, in the case of § 16. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 16, first paragraph, new paragraph. 3 is replaced by the following: Services relating to the carriage of passengers. The same applies to the provision of such services. 4 shall be replaced by the following:Services from public broadcasters financed by the broadcasting fee referred to in the Broadcasting Act § 6-4.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3582	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3639	The party of progress, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3651	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3660	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3683	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3693	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-30-lower.ana.ud630e3703	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
