ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e62	The representatives Grethe Fossli, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Ingvald Godal, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Magnar Lussand, has taken the seat. From the delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, an application has been submitted, signed by the Head of the Delegation, the High Representative of Haakon Blankenborg. The application concerns leave to attend the EFTA Ministerial Meeting in Geneva on 12 and 13 December of the representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Gunn Karin Gjul, Brother Yngve Rahm, Siri Frost Sterri and Haakon Blankenborg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Åge TovanFor Uppland County: Kjell Ivar FossnesFor Telemark County: Vivian Knarvik Bugge For South Trondelag County: No Balstad and Michael Momyr3. Michael Momyr is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e142	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1043]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e156	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1043]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e170	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e181	The budget agreement between the central parties and the Labour Party increased the budgets of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. This increase gives us the opportunity to strengthen some priority areas in addition to the efforts contained in the Government's budget proposals. Norway is an oil and gas nation. It will therefore be of great importance in the future that we also facilitate domestic use of our gas resources. Today we only use the lower part of 1 pst. in Norway, the rest will be exported. The objective must be that we can make an increase in the proportion that we are now making possible, and that we can then lay the foundation for a new industrial bag in our country, namely by using the gas. In addition to industrialisation based on our gas production, the transport sector and heating are the most nearby areas of gas use. Government proposal to grant 20 million. kr for a gas pipeline project in Bergen will contribute to speeding up the organisation of increased use of natural gas, inter alia. in the Bergen area. Similar projects are also being carried out elsewhere in the country. Some places, such as in North Rogaland, are already an important source of energy for natural gas in many areas. It is gratifying to note that the bulk of population now opens up to support such projects also elsewhere than in the Bergen region. It gives important signals to all those involved in the process of using the gas on land, and in the next round there must be other projects that must also be able to receive such support. In the transport sector, LNG gas is now very important and very timely to use. The Committee points out that it is important to create a market for LNG so that the system of production and distribution becomes equivalent in terms of cost. In this setting, a General Committee of the Government is also asking for a comprehensive strategy for the use of natural gas in Norway. Such a communication will provide the Storting with a good opportunity to discuss this in the light of current developments in different areas. There is a high potential for efficiency in seeing more energy sources in the context. This was, among other things: discussed in Stortinget on 23 October in connection with an interpellation I traveled to the Minister of Oil and Energy. In its recommendation on changes to the State budget for 2000, we are now asking the Government to assess such solutions and come back to Stortinget with an assessment. The use of waste heat from industry and combustion plants has a high potential. Remote heaters will be exempted from the electricity tax on electricity used to operate the plants from next year. I would also like to point out this with green certificates, which the Committee is now also putting into its position. The Committee has taken note of the ongoing work in the EU on creating a green certificate system in the power market. The Committee sees the benefits of Norway initiating an investigation into the corresponding system in Norway in parallel with the EU. The Norwegian force is clear. Almost all the power we produce today is from renewable energy sources. We should therefore have great advantages in the European energy market if such a system is established. The Government proposed a slight increase in the Ministry of the Environment budget compared to the current year. The budgetary agreement has further increased the budget for this department. I would like to mention, among other things: The map, reinforced by the budget agreement by 20 million. kr. The need for modern and electronic navigational charts is very much required; it is known to everyone, not least in the light of the tragic accidents that have occurred. If we are to achieve the Storting's goal of covering the Norwegian coast with new maps by 2006, it will require even greater appropriations in the coming years. We need to be clear about that, and the leadership of the Energy Committee is quite clear on this point: this should be in place by 2006. Work to ensure biodiversity has been strengthened through the draft budget and through the budgetary agreement. The wild salmon strains are threatened by the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris, but also by acid rain. Over 20 watercourses are now affected by this infection, and the challenges we face are enormous. Here we have to trust the researchers and use the methods necessary for the proper control of this parasite. The work of preserving the wild salmon strains must be of high priority, and we look forward to the follow-up by the Government to the suspension of the Villaks Committee. It will also be at the heart of the work here. Environmental poisons PCB is a major threat to the environment and biodiversity. We are well-known that PCBs cause the death of polar monks, the development of two heads, and the polar bear is dubious. It is clear that this gives serious signals that we now have to follow up. This shows that research in this area needs to be continued and intensified. However, it is equally important that plans are made and work is being undertaken to clean up ports and fjords. There is an urgent need to get started in this area as well, and the work will require considerable resources. Unfortunately, we must note that the climate negotiations in The Hague did not lead to an agreement. However, it is still possible to reach agreement. The government must influence international work in order for us to succeed next time the parties come together. Although we do not have an agreement today, we must start work on national measures, including the development of a national quota system. This also underlined the Minister for the Environment in his statement to the Stortinget on 30 November this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e214	The size has been waiting for a long time to decide the future of Statoil and the future management of its shares. The matter was repeatedly put to the Bondevik administration, and when we received a change of government in our company, the Stoltenberg government failed to present a case about this before the summer, which first announced. The case has now been dealt with at the National Labour Party meeting, and I have registered in the media that the representative Nordtun has worked actively to obtain a partial privatisation and stock exchange listing of Statoil, which was also agreed by the national meeting, as far as I have registered. I therefore react with amazement at the fact that the representative Nordtun and the Workers' Party Group will not support a proposal to ask the Government to facilitate partial privatisation and listing of Statoil. The proposal in the vote has not yet been properly promoted, but it is so worded that it does not consider how much of the company is going to be on the stock exchange. There is therefore reason to ask the representative Nordtun if the Workers' Party here is voting against what they really are in favour of. Is this perhaps the reason why the proposal did not come from the Workers' Party and that they would rather reinvent the powder when the Council of State proposes this later?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e221	The replica to me went on the further organisation of Statoil. The representative Vaksdal referred to the thorough treatment the Labour Party has had of this matter, and that is correct. As I understand it now, the government will come to Stortinget with this matter before Christmas. It is such a proper and thorough procedure. We must also have the issue of the Great Britain on this important oil policy issue. And it's coming, it's announced. I also look forward to working with the Progress Party if they are to take stock of the important guidelines for our energy policy in the future, including an alliance building for Statoil, so that Statoil can become the major energy and industrial company. We should have the widest possible majority for that in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e228	In the setting, a nearly collective committee underlines the importance of SFT as: «a heavy professional operator in environmental management, both as a guide and as a performer». At the same time as the Workers' Party is involved in such comments, we experience that the Government controls the SFT in parallel with this over-control and excludes SFT from assessing CO2 emissions on an independent professional basis in relation to the pollution law in connection with the treatment of the emissions permit from the Forest Power Plant. As the evening post quite rightly says in its manager on 30 November: ‘SFT has taken its part in the decision with the pen retention.’ SFT was ‘in practice bound by hands and feet’. And for its part, pollution control has not provided a single professional justification for the emissions permit to Forest. On the contrary, a clear framework has been established by the Ministry of the Environment for its treatment. The director of the SFT himself has said that. And former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch has called this the introduction of a new state custom. I fully agree with that, and this is very unfortunate. In principle, the right thing to do would be to have the SFT do their job and make a professional and independent assessment of the pollution law, and the Ministry of the Environment also had to convert the SFT's decisions in the next round on the basis of political assessments and the subsequent famous March decision on gross domestic product. I would very much like to hear the Nordtun representative's explanation for this. Can the representative Nordtun explain the link between the comment on the SFT as a heavy and professional player in environmental management, both as a guide and as we wrote it in the vote, and taking away from the SFT its own professional responsibility in the field of climate policy, which is, of course, the main environmental policy challenge we are actually facing? Is the SFT heavy and professional in absolutely all areas other than climate and CO2?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e247	We have the SFT today, we need it in the future, and the SFT needs to be strengthened. To the line that came to me about gas power plants, because that's what was taken up here, I have to stress again what the Stortinget decided on March 9th this year, and that had certain consequences for different things here in Stortinget. If it says so, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘The treatment of the conversion cases and any emissions requests for new gas power plants shall be presumed to be carried out within the framework of the Pollution Act and the following guideline shall be used:’;» This is the representative of Hilde Frafjord Johnson very well known, and it is these guidelines that SFT is now working on. But this also gives me an opportunity to comment on a proposal that emerged today from the well-known centre parties. It says, among other things. ‘without bindings’. I have to say to the centre parties that they are going very far when they are now proposing that the SFT “can deal with all emissions requests on an independent and professional basis without any binding obligation”. Today, the SFT has a number of bonds. They're facing a reality where there's a bunch of paragraphs they're working on every day. I therefore found reason to quote the decision of a majority of the Grand Duchy of 9 March this year on what guidelines the SFT is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e259	First, I would like to agree with what Tore Nordtun started with, namely the commitment to the use of natural gas on land. It is quite clear that with the strong criticism of the current Council of State, the Act came under the previous government of the previous budgetary debate on their commitment to natural gas, the Government must follow up here. But the problem is that they don't follow closely enough up, and we're going to get back to that. But Tore Nordtun also addressed the PCB problem, and he described in an excellent way what serious challenges we are facing here. Both the Government and the Storting have previously referred to this as one of our most dangerous contaminants and one of our greatest challenges. The government’s response and the centre of this challenge are an increase of 2 million in this state budget. kr. There is an increase that is in no way relative to the description that both Tore Nordtun and the Government have included in this case. So Tore Nordtun says we need more plans. No, in this case we do not need any more plans, in this case we need an offensive effort and concrete action. How will Tore Nordtun describe the bet that the government is raising here – 2 million. NOK – in relation to the description he himself gave of this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e268	I could have thought of an even greater bet in this area as the representative Höie addresses. The situation is extremely serious, but, after all, it is now located between 70 and 80 million. kr within the research chapter with which we contribute. The need for research and development of projects in this area has been repeatedly addressed from a political point of view, including from the Right’s representatives. We're not at all prepared to reduce or stop, but it's the main pot on the cap. 1410, to use that expression, channelled over to the Research Council, and it is the Research Council that determines the distribution that is going out here. We have now given the political signals and arranged for the research that has been there to be continued and intensified. I would also like to refer to the international cooperation agreements we have in this area, and also to the international projects that need not only to be completed but to be further developed, so that we get more evidence than we already have, and we can take the decisions that are necessary to reduce and deal with these monstrous adverse effects in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e275	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e279	When the government presented its draft budget in October, I found it difficult in several areas to believe what I read. Here came a government out of the Norwegian Workers' Party with proposals for an electricity tax on power for the industry in addition to an economic cost which was in fact nothing but an increase in the employer's fee, which if adopted would result in cost increases for competitively dependent industries with which the few could survive. And in the background, we could hear LO leader Yngve Hågensen praising the draft budget and saying that this was the best budget for Norway for a long time, a budget that, if adopted, would mean that thousands of his members would be put on the gate. Now it didn't go so well, but to replace this we got a different remarkableness: The budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties states in point 15 inter alia.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Government’s proposal on electricity taxation...in industry...is dismissed. Instead, an ordinary electricity tax is introduced on the consumption of power by industry for administration and other activities. The charge shall not be levied on electricity used for production.» This rarity bears the mark of being sewn together by desktop theorists who have never put their legs in an industrial enterprise. In this case, a charge must be paid for the power going to lighting, office machinery and the like, while production equipment must be exempt from charge. Many people are asking themselves whether this can be implemented in practice at all, and who in the world is going to check that this is being carried out? However, we can conclude that the new growth industry in Norway will be the production and sale of current meters, as a result of this decision. I do not know whether the word 'laughing' is a parliamentary term, but I have not been able to find another word that is comprehensive about this. The government also proposed a sharp increase in the electricity charge to the consumer, which is further exacerbated by the budgetary agreement with the centre parties. Of course, the Progress Party will not be involved in these fee increases. We have ample access to energy in Norway. We produce nearly 3,000 TWh in terms of power, oil and gas, and we can only use 6-7 pst. Of this itself, the rest goes to export. The Progress Party believes that this energy resource must benefit the Norwegian people and the Norwegian industry We also believe that there should be free competition between the different forms of energy sources, without any public subsidy. We also do not want to spend taxpayers' money on other measures aimed at changing energy consumption, nor at using taxes to change or reduce consumption. It has been a myth for many years that we in Norway are some great energy wasters. Of course, this isn't right. Several studies show that Norwegian households do not have more energy than households in other countries with which we normally compare. In addition, we must bear in mind that access to large quantities of power at competitive prices has played a crucial role in industrial travel, value creation and wealth development across the whole country through large parts of the last century. So to the oil sector. High oil prices and high dollar rates in addition to relatively high oil production mean that this important industry generates large revenues for the country. However, it is important that we constantly focus on this industry's framework conditions and ensure long-term and predictability, so that we are better equipped to cope with a potentially severe fall in oil prices. Unfortunately, we have seen a fall in prices in the last few days, but at least it has not been alarming. The last time we had a sharp fall in oil prices, this meant that a number of extensions on the base were exposed or scraped. This hit the supplier industry particularly hard, with both redundancies and lay-offs, and unfortunately also fragmentation of environments of competence that had taken decades to build up. The Committee has recently addressed the issue of St.meld. No 39 for 1999-2000 on oil and gas activities, which will be dealt with here in the Chamber on 18 December, and I also look forward to a review of the tax regime on the socket. I hope that the result of this together will strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian base, so that hopefully we will avoid the major fluctuations in the rate of expansion. The Progress Party believes that we need to make better use of our gas resources in society in general, in addition to power generation, and we are pleased that a unanimous committee asks the Government to come back with a comprehensive strategy for the use of gas in Norway. We also believe that the time is overdue for the partial privatisation and listing of energy companies Statoil and Statkraft, and this year we are also promoting proposals to this effect. In the budgetary agreement between the Government and the central parties, the financial framework within the framework areas 12 and 13 are, in our opinion, far too high. This year, therefore, as last year, we will not make any alternative proposals within these new frameworks, as this will destroy the overall budget profile we have set up. However, we will refer to the alternative state budget of the Advance Party within the framework areas 12 and 13 as reflected in the vote. I would like to mention proposal No. 5 on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, the proposals No. 7, 8 and 9 on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right and proposal No. 10 on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e322	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e327	I listened particularly to this post from the Progress Party at the Waksdal, because that party has had a special view of the pollution problem. And I then refer you to the representative of Korsberg after the Minister for the Environment's statement from the Hague discussions, in which he expressed joy at the fact that the agreement did not work out. In the setting, the Progress Party has a touching mention of liming Norwegian rivers – a touching mention of liming Norwegian rivers! They must be limed, because now the acidic precipitation is about to chew all the watercourses. But at the same time, the Progress Party says that there is no problem with pollution, and great joy that the Hague discussions broke down! How does this rhyme? Is it that we just have to wash up with liming and let the atmosphere die completely – only we get enough lime?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e334	It is true, as Nordtun claims, that we have a slightly different view of the Kyoto problem and CO2 emissions than the majority in this Chamber. And then he mixes this all of a sudden with liming. It has been scientifically proven that sulphur emissions have caused major problems for Norwegian rivers, and we in the Progress Party have been in the process of increasing those allocations every year. This is proven, the other thing we don't think is sufficiently proven. As far as our environmental position is concerned, I can also refer to a proposal we had in the financial debate to allow the sulphur tax to enter into a fund that would just go to environmental measures, which would go to the reduction of sulphur emissions, so that we could achieve the objectives of the Gothenburg Protocol. This proposal has not reached a majority here, but we wanted to replace the fiscal charges with a tax that would go to real environmental measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e341	I would like to follow up on some of the things that Tore Nordtun had to say about the contradiction in the policy of the Progress Party on the environment. It's filled with contradictions, and I'd like to point one more. The voluntary organisations in Norway are important contributors to the public debate. They have been drivers in important processes that have resulted in us, as politicians, also addressing challenges that we may not have been aware of in the past. The Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating the proper functioning of voluntary Organisajons-Norway, a little independent of whether they are so-called politically correct or not. What surprises me is that the Progress Party would like to appear with the same profile in relation to the voluntary organisations, but at the same time they put a note in the attitude that we are dealing with today, where it says that the Progress Party is on a ‘princely’ basis against any form of public support to voluntary organisations. Let me point out that this is the same thing as in the setting last year. And when I confronted the representative Vaksdal with this in a line change last year, Vaksdal expressed that it was a work accident. And then I have to ask Mr Vaksdal the question: How often can you allow yourself to have an accident at work in the settings of a budgetary procedure? Is this an accident at work, or can we still count on the Progress Party to stand up for voluntary Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e352	The representative, Rahm, was amazed at the fact that the Progress Party had the same principles this year as last year; it is due to him. He mentioned voluntary organisations, and I could be tempted to use the English term NGO’s, Non-Governmental Organisations, so they have to be voluntary and stand on their own feet independent of public interference. And they don't if we're going, I'm not going to say buying, but at least pay these organizations. Then they are not on their own, nor are they free. That is why we want them to be on their own economic level and to be as free from public interference – also financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e359	We are experiencing a time gap in environmental policy, where the old environmental policy, which was linked to the sweatshirt and oatmeal, and where a contrast between value creation and the environment was constructed, is on the way out, while a new and modern environmental policy is on the way. Internationally, it is the liberal and conservative parties that have taken the lead in creating the new environmental policy that focuses on cost-effectiveness, on international cooperation and on research and technological development. It is based on the administrative responsibility that the Right, including in Norway, wants to be at the forefront of the new and modern environmental policy. I had hoped that we could also have the Advance Party on that team, as the Advance Party wants to mark itself as a right-hand party in Norwegian politics in at least some contexts. If you go through the Ministry of the Environment's budget and also the whole of the Progress Party's policy, you can see that it is not only internal to the party that the Progress Party is using a lot of lye. A very strong lye is also used when washing the Ministry of the Environment's budget. All that is involved in prevention and prevention, but also in the field of research, both daggers and axes are used to get out of the budget, except for one area, which has also been the subject of debate before today: lime. In the case of lime, the party of progress is patent, and more patents than anyone else – here, money is really to be used. But it is after the damage has happened. When we look at prevention, conduct goods and research to avoid and limit future damage, the Progress Party is gone. At the national meeting of the Progress Party, it was signalled that we should now be moderated, now we should have a new environmental policy. You probably even had ambitions to make an environmental policy program, you didn't make it yourself, but you put it on the market. Where has the new Progress Party environmental policy become, and what is it containing? It would have been exciting to be consecrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e370	The Party's environmental policy is based on facts, not on what some scientists believe, but on what others don't believe. There was a lot of lime here, but it's true that this representative was also involved, that we have increased the appropriations for lime. We have also said some positive things about research on "gyro", but we don't go as far as the Right does. The right one likes to be presented as a business party, but actually it's too far ahead to undermine our position as the second largest oil exporter in the world, by kicking bones using fossil fuel in the way we look at daily. So we base our things on the facts. We can't take the consequences of what some scientists think, and others don't believe, but we have to wait until we get this scientifically proven.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e379	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e382	of what was strongly criticised when the Government presented its State budget, the environmental profile was not primarily due to the proposal for an environmental budget, but among others. because of the cut in the appropriations for energy saving and new renewable energy sources, the cuts in environmentally friendly transport combined with the lower petrol price and the lack of collective investment. This has climate policy implications. Environmental efforts are measured not only in the number of crowns in a department but in the priorities in heavy areas such as transport and oil and energy. With the budgetary agreement with the centre, the environmental profile has improved in the 2001 budget. This applies, inter alia, to: a significant contribution to public transport by 150 million. kr, and the exemption from VAT. The energy and environmental side has also been given a boost. Overall, environmental efforts have been increased by 110 million. kr. But heads and ears aren't enough, political grips can be equally important. In this respect, the budgetary agreement also involves important steps in the right direction. In addition, the Labour Party has contributed constructively. Let me, however, express two concerns. The first one concerns the role of SFT. In the nomination, a nearly overall committee underlines the importance of State pollution control as a heavy and professional environmental management operator, both as a guide and as a performer. At the same time as the majority subscribes to such comments, we experience that the Government overrides the SFT, and assumes responsibility for assessing CO2 emissions on an independent professional basis in relation to the pollution law in the treatment of the Forest Power Plant Emissions permit. The SFT does not provide a single professional justification for the release of the emissions permit. SFT only refers to the fact that they have a clear framework for their treatment by the Ministry of the Environment. These are known to be based on previous decisions on aggregates. Former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch has called this the introduction of a new state. I fully agree with that. In principle, the right thing to do would be to have the SFT do their job, make a professional assessment of the pollution law, and the Ministry of the Environment also had to convert SFT's decisions next time based on policy assessments and decision-making. It would be following up the comments in the setting. This is also the background to the proposal distributed in the Chamber. We will come back to this matter on 18 December. The second concern concerns the follow-up to the Energy Communication. In this first energy and environment budget following the Energy Communication, the allocations of an additional and new renewable energy sources are already well below agreed objectives. It's unfortunate. Even after the increase in the budget agreement, we are a bit away from the target. Storing and government should find mechanisms to ensure more stable and predictable appropriations, in order to implement the agreed effort. There's several ways to do this. I'm glad that one of them, a system of mandatory green certification systems, is now to be explored, as an almost collective committee agrees. The scheme should be set up in a similar way as in the seven EU countries that are now planning green certification systems, in other words, related to new renewable energy sources. It is also very important that a target is aimed at the extension of the scheme from 1 January 2000, so that operators do not now postpon important investments in new renewable energy sources pending the exploration and implementation of such a scheme. This has happened, among others. in Germany. The introduction of green certificates will provide a market-based focus on new renewable energy sources. It may provide ‘green operators’ with the market they need to create predictability for their investment. And I would like to ask the Minister of Oil and Energy to contribute to a follow-up in this direction. On the appropriations side, it should be considered that a certain proportion of the electricity charge is directly linked to the appropriations for an additional and new renewable energy sources. That will ensure continuity in the appropriations. This has been done in relation to the transmission tariff and the financing of the one-off agency. It is possible to add corresponding bonds in proportion to a share of the electricity charge. In any case, the increase in the electricity charge puts consumers at a higher incentive for energy saving, while increasing the amount of money to invest in energy savings and in new renewable energy sources. Increase of 60 million. kr contributes to it. But again, it is well below the level of the Energy Communication, and therefore I would like to ask the Minister of Energy specifically to consider measures to ensure predictability. Furthermore, from the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that district heating projects can now be provided on a multiannual basis and that the ceiling will be adjusted in line with the level of appropriations, as agreed in the budget agreement. It shall make it possible to bet on a larger scale on district heating projects. It is also of fundamental and practical importance that the focus on renewable energy sources will now be distinguished from the focus on natural gas through the creation of its own mail. This is important in order to prevent natural gas investment from eating up the investment in more environmentally friendly energy sources, an increase in and new renewable energy sources. If we are to achieve the best possible end result by climate change, we must focus most on the most environmentally friendly grips and ensure natural gas deployment where this can best replace more polluting energy sources. One must not be compensated for the other. The result will be worse for the environment and for the climate. The creation of the new EEA body will also contribute to increasing the commitment to new renewable energy sources, the most environmentally friendly energy sources. At the same time, the Christian People's Party wishes to increase its investment in natural gas to replace more polluting energy sources. But this should not be confused. Natural gas is not a renewable energy source. That is why this should be done not only through own allocations – i.e. natural gas operations through own allocations – but through the establishment of a dedicated gas centre which should naturally be located in the Haugesund area, as proposed by the SV and the Centre Parties today. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we may wonder at the various manoeuvres of the Workers' Party in this matter. What do you really think about the agency? Because here the setting is slightly ambiguous. Representative Brother Yngve Rahm will be more involved in this and in the focus on natural gas in his intervention later in the debate. In addition to the major changes needed to address climate change, it is important to take care of both the natural and cultural heritage in a more traditional way. In particular, I would like to highlight the appropriations for Tautra. Through a fissure layer, the Centre and the Workers' Party in two different committees have now ensured that it is set at 20 million. kr from the transport and environmental side to ensure a bridge to the protection area of Tautra. This means you can get rid of the devastating molo. The area of protection can now be preserved in order to avoid the removal of it from the list of protected areas under international conventions. This is a very important environmental victory. For the Minister for the Environment, it must be good to let go of an embarrassing international affair as this could have been. There are also other smaller but not less important victories in the budget. I am thinking in particular of two areas: measures to mine the wild and cultural memories. Once again, the Stortinget has made sure to prevent cuts in liming allocations and has kept them at a stable high level. In addition, during the budgetary procedure, we have secured funds for the treatment of the Steinkjervass Treaty for Gyrodactylus salaris. It may seem like a small thing, but it really means that about 25 watercourses to Trondheimsfjord can be mountained. There is little doubt that the risk of infection from the Steinskråsslästre could have dramatic consequences for salmon populations in this particular area. With this appropriation, work has been undertaken to protect if the wild game has increased by 12 million. kr when not including liming. Now, however, environmental management must speed up its efforts to find alternatives to rotenone treatment. This is very important, and it's urgent. With today's appropriations, you have the opportunity, and I expect the Minister for the Environment to follow up on this. Then to the cultural heritage. In the budget proposed by the Government, cultural memory work was given priority. The current budgetary procedure has further strengthened the work on the protection of cultural memories. This has been a long required budget increase. Cultural memory protection has been receiving voice-meditated treatment in Norway for far too many years. It has actually been rather shameful that we have not managed to prioritise this area more in common. I hope, therefore, that the common promise we have contributed to here, not just becomes a bluff, but signals a new course for the promotion of cultural memory protection. This applies not only to the priority of ship protection and industrial cultural memory protection, which the Committee has given priority to this process, but also to other areas. I will nevertheless underline in particular the overall responsibility of the Government for finding a solution for the Tyssedal. We made a fissure layer in relation to Tautra, and I hope the Minister for the Environment can evaluate corresponding fissures in relation to other government councils to capture this industrial cultural memory. Among other things, the Minister of Culture received this call from Stortinget last Friday in connection with the processing of the museum message. Let me also underline the importance of the fact that there is now a clarification for the Stavanger cathedral in line with the Nidarosis, and that one provides a survey of the situation for our stone churches. This has been underestimated in relation to the stave churches in the cultural memory work. I would also like to highlight the majority's emphasis on the need to continue restoration projects already in progress, as well as the Utstein monastery as well as the Heddal stave church, as examples. I ask the Minister for the Environment to take note of this and to help ensure the follow-up to Storting's comments. Then I'll bring up proposal No. 5, by the Progress Party, the Centre Parties and the SV, proposal No. 6, from the centre parties and SV and proposal No. 12, which is behind the center pieces.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e416	Hilde Frafjord Johnson has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e422	That the representative Frafjord Johnson and the centre parties have a real and burning commitment to nature and the environment, I do not doubt. But sometimes they turn completely counter-clockwise, and they have clearly done so in one case in this budgetary position. It is true that the Working Party and Centre have jointly found measures to limit the consumption of electricity. But the fact is that the highest increase in electricity consumption is looking at leisure properties and cabins. We see that rich people build difficult cabin palaces, and in some cases the power consumption degenerates to the nearest vulgarity. The Oppland Entøk Centre has made estimates showing that the Hafjell cabins consume more electricity than a whole residential area with all-year-old dwellings in Lillehammer. To stop this negative development, I expected the center to take the initiative to increase the price of cabin current, but instead the opposite happens. In the budget setting, the Centre actually proposes to reduce the price of cabin current, in contravention of all logic. The representative Frafjord Johnson may be able to tell who has diverted the center into such an environmental short-circuit. Is this the former alpine town of Ole Kristian Furuset, with 460 m2 cabin with jacuzzi and 28 beds? Or is it the Bjørn Rune Gålsten, with a 1,000 m2 cabin and its glory? In any case, the centre has not listened to the leader of the Tourist Association, Øystein Dahle, who suggests to fivefold the price of cottage electricity. Nor can Frafjord Johnson have listened to her former government colleague, Marit Arnstad, who on March 3rd this year said to Dagbladet that she could intend to increase the electricity price for cabins.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e431	If the representative Gjul thought that I had a close relationship with the people she mentioned, I can reassure her that there is absolutely no contact either with Gjulsten or with Ole Kristian Furoset. The background of this note also has nothing to do with protecting these guys and their cabin palaces. On the contrary, the Christian People's Party and the Centre agree with the need not to treat these in a special way and let them escape in relation to electricity charges. The background to this remark is the need to look at the little man, who could risk getting very large bills of electricity at very low consumption on his tiny cottage. Then it's up to the Government – which we ask to assess this issue – whether it can find a way to differentiate between these two considerations. We don't want to contribute to sponsoring either one or the other, but we want to assess whether it's possible to help protect the little man in this respect. So I don't think this has particularly big effects on the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e438	Acid precipitation is the result of air pollution, and it is therefore disappointing to witness that the budgetary agreement this time reduces the allocation of watercourse liming. It is important to limit pollutant emissions using technology and to provide sufficient means to reduce the adverse effects. Sulphur emissions are pollution. This will include, inter alia: the process industry is involved and the process industry wants the levy to enter an environmental fund to finance clean-up measures. We felt that this was a good thing in the Progress Party, and therefore, during the financial debate, we promoted the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the creation of a fund, in which the sulphur tax from the process industry is levied. This fund shall be used for environmental improvement measures in the process industry.» In other words, this is a purely environmental charge that will be used exclusively to finance clean-up measures. Then it becomes completely incomprehensible to me that the Christian People's Party, which is dedicated to, among other things. a Kyoto agreement of which no one knows the economic consequences, voted against such an environmentally friendly proposal that we promoted. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative Frafjord Johnson why the Christian People's Party voted against the creation of a fund that would be used for environmental improvement measures in the process industry and thus contribute to improving the environment. And why won't the Christian People's Party be involved in granting more money, which is needed, for the liming of rivers and watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e452	That's interesting when the Progress Party has lines. They then stick to the one question they are willing to give priority to the environment, namely liming, which is a clean repair operation, and then they see all environmental efforts in relation to it. The progress of the project largely reduces the environmental budget across the line, and then they cling to the liming process. What has happened in this context is that we have managed to increase the liming allocation. We are maintaining it at a stable high level, while at the same time we have managed to ensure a different situation that the Progress Party should also be concerned with, namely ensuring the Steinkjervassträg a treatment for Gyrodactylus salaris in 2001. That's the operation we've done in relation to the budget deal. We have ensured that the salmon now does not die to a large extent in watercourses in Trondheimsfjorden. It's actually maybe in this context even more critical than the liming allocation and the 1.5 million. kr which is what this is all about. I think we've got a pretty good solution. With the operation that the centre parties and the Workers' Party have done together, we've got the best solution for the salmon. Then to the process industry and the sulphur tax. In the context of the financial position, we were able to halve that charge just for industry. But usually you have been skeptical about earmarking different fees for funds, because it can become unexplained. This is a common fiscal argument. But we've been open in different contexts to consider that kind of proposal. For the Christian People's Party, it will be crucial how the environmental benefit will be derived from the use of that type of instrument. So I don't want to deny that we can in the long run be interested in getting an analysis of this proposal and having to assess the environmental benefit of it. That's what's going to decide the Christian People's Party's position on this issue. But we must be aware that it is not in all cases wise to split up into many environmental funds and earmark many environmental taxes. Environmental measures can then also be dependent on the money from the fees, so that they are not solved, because the revenues of the environmental measures are needed. So we want to solve that question. That's my answer to Korsberg's line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e461	The Bondevik Government took the initiative of DEMO 2000 as a split layer between industry and the authorities in order to increase its commitment to research and development and demonstration. It's been a success. Through the 180 million. kr that has been contributed by the State in the last two years, the industry itself has set up by 450 million. kr. The project has helped both to increase the value of our resources on Norwegian pedestal, and it has helped to give Norwegian technology an international advantage. The budgetary process made it clear that the proposed reduction proposed here by the Government has an even more dramatic impact than what it originally looked to have on that 30 million. have already been disposed of by the measures in place. That is to say, there are actually only 20 million left. kr for new projects, i.e. an almost guided closure of this project. What confidence can industry have to the authorities when entering this type of fissure layer which is rapidly deflected from the authorities? Did not the central parties, through the budgetary negotiations, feel a responsibility to ensure continued commitment to this project, which in this sector may have to be said to be the greatest success of the Bondevik government in achieving industrial development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e470	It is very nice to hear representatives from the Right Prize as high a proposal as the ‘airlock’ central government came along and they want a significantly stronger commitment. We are very pleased and very satisfied with that. I agree with the representative Bent Höie that this was one of the very good proposals made by the Bondevik Government. It was a significant effort, which has contributed to major ring-effects – as I understand it, approx. 400 million. kr collected in bet. Of course, this is not a cut-off proposal from the Labour Party government that we have a great need to defend. What we can say is that we were no longer able to increase the package that would go to this sector, so that we could also secure further appropriations for DEMO 2000. But what I want to point out is that there's 20 million. kr to bet on CO2-free gas power plants in the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. There are also two other proposals which I think will have an impact on technology development for the petroleum industry. One is 500 million. kr more to the Research Fund, which we put in place in the budget agreement, and the second is 100 million. D to step up research in the budget, which is now to come under the KUF. We must also ensure that we go to energy research and to research in relation to petroleum technology. We are going to contribute to this in our own way, and I also believe that the Council of State responsible for this area is as interested as we are in ensuring that this research work does not escalate, but on the contrary is given high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e483	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e486	During the budget negotiations with the Workers' Party on next year's budget, the centre parties created great expectations of a large-scale investment in the environment. We were told that the Workers' Party's environmental budget was too poor, and we were told that the Centre parties made "inevitable demands" on environmental improvements. If we ignore a few small millions who are being distributed to projects that have broad support within the committee, there is one real priority going on. The Centre and the Workers' Party choose to blow tens of millions into airy wind turbines, projects that will require large state subsidies even in the operational phase, and which provide little power, while the same batches cut into the energy research and environmental monitoring appropriations. The right considers it appropriate to allocate money to an additional activity and to work towards the realisation of new renewable energy sources. However, we believe that the same demands must be made on the funds allocated in this area as in other areas. There must be a link between what is granted and the results obtained. I record that the central parties and the Workers' Party choose to allocate 60 million. These lots have joined a note calling into question whether the funds allocated for this purpose are delivering good enough results. The Centre and the Workers' Party are obviously in doubt about the impact of theenlargements, but nevertheless they choose to inflate extra millions for this purpose. Let me just remind you that during the period of the central government of the parties, there was a great deal of trouble in using up the funds that were allocated to an individual. Yes, these appropriations have been cut sharply over the year, and now you are expressing great scepticism as to whether there is good enough efficiency in the money being allocated, and at the same time you choose to inflate even more millions for this purpose and cutbacks in the research sector. That's what's provocative. At the same time, while not finding money to clean up old environmental sins, and at the same time choosing to cut the appropriations for energy research and environmental monitoring, you choose to put millions into projects that you really have limited faith in. Let me remind you that last year the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties also chose to cut the appropriations for energy research. In all the debates we have had in the last year on the construction of gas power plants in Norway, the central parties have claimed that they will invest in the next generation of CO2-free gas power plants, and that they will therefore increase the research effort. When it came to the problem, it wasn't that important anyway. The promise of increased research efforts was answered with a cut in the appropriations for energy research. The right is committed to combining Norway’s role as an environmental precursor with Norway’s role as a leading energy nation. So the right is concerned with combining our ambitions in the environmental field with an active policy for increased value creation. An important common denominator to achieve this is increased investment in the field of research. Looking at the difference between the focus of the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties on research and technological development in the environment and energy and the Right's approach, the Right proposes to grant 100 million. more in the framework of research and technological development than the Centre and the Workers' Party proposes. This is achieved by increasing the allocations to technology development in the petroleum industry, namely DEMO 2000, for energy research and for environmental research. If we look at the alternative budget of the Progress Party, the difference is even greater. Yeah, it's not just in the party that the Progress Party is doing a real Christmas wash. The Progress Party also tackles the energy and environmental budget, and in particular the appropriations for research, which are being washed out. The right is in line with a modern and future-oriented environmental policy. That is why we are in favour of international solutions to international problems. Therefore, we are concerned with cost-effectiveness both nationally and internationally. Therefore, the Right is a strong supporter of the flexible implementation mechanisms of the Kyoto Agreement. When we can invest in emission reduction measures where we get the biggest reductions for the money being put in, yes, then we can also increase the level of ambition in the agreements. Therefore, a national greenhouse gas allowance system is in favour of the right. Politicians can set a thank-you for emissions. The market ensures that emission reductions are as effective and proportionate as possible. Because the Right is concerned with getting the most environment for each krona and because we are concerned about the environment in our neighbourhoods, the Right is proposing to increase the allocation of nuclear safety and environmental remediation in North-West Russia and Eastern Europe by 200 million. kr. Because the Right is a member of a modern and future-oriented environmental policy, we are proposing increased appropriations for research and new technologies. In this way, we can reduce – and preferably eliminate – environmentally harmful emissions. Right will have less use of whips and more use of carrots to promote more environmentally friendly behaviour both among people and in business. The right is concerned with finding a good balance between use and protection, which both ensures the potential for resource use in our long-term country and ensures that we take care of natural values for future generations. It is this which underlies the Right's proposal to increase support for voluntary nature conservation and our proposal to increase allocations for the bonding of free areas so that the rights of all persons can be guaranteed. The same applies to our proposal to outsource defence properties to be sold to free areas. I am pleased that the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, like the Right, will increase the allocation of cultural memories. It is an important promise for which a majority is now ensured. But if the Centre and the Workers' Party had shown the same willingness as the Right to reduce environmental bureaucracy, the allocations to cultural memories could have been further increased. I am disappointed that the Centre and the Workers' Party do not give greater priority to cleaning up old environmental sins. There's a lot of work going on in new areas, the ambitions are getting high, but when it comes to cleaning up old fun, you pull away. You do not show willingness to, among other things, prioritisation of PCB clean-up. After many years of fighting, we now experience a breakthrough in the process of accepting – and framework conditions that allow – natural gas to be used domestically. In 2001, there will be no major effort, but a significant step in the right direction, and the Committee is now calling for a comprehensive strategy for the use of natural gas in Norway. For many years, the right has been working to increase the use of natural gas. There are three important reasons for that. Firstly, natural gas is an environmentally friendly product, which can be widely used in the transport sector, both for buses and cars, and we can replace highly polluting diesel-powered ferries with high-tech, modern, gas-powered ferries, and we also know that the industry can replace more polluting energy sources with natural gas. Furthermore, natural gas can contribute to increased value creation, creating new, exciting jobs along the coast. It is well documented that the processing of natural gas in Norway will contribute to significant value creation. And thirdly, by investing in research, development and use of natural gas, we can consolidate Norway's position as a leading energy nation. The right supports the proposal to have a separate pilot project in the Bergen region. Nevertheless, it becomes somewhat half-hearted when we know and know all the other good projects for the use and further processing of natural gas. Both in the Haugesund-Stavanger area and the Tjeldbergodden, Trondheim and in towards Skogn there are many projects that would require a few extra kroner. In the long term, we also believe that it must be a goal to bring natural gas into the East. That's why the Right is increasing the allocations within the framework of 20 to 70 million. kr. It will enable many good projects to be realised both for the environment and for value creation. The proposals of the Labour Party Government, which would mean that work on electronic navigational charts was postponed by ten years, have aroused much anger along the coast. I am glad that the central parties and the Workers' Party are also at the height of the decision-making goal of getting new charts by 2006, and that 20 million are granted. kr extra until next year to get this done. Finally, a few comments on the proposal from the centre parties. I see this as a funny proposal, but I would also like to state that I deeply disagree with the content of the proposal, as it states that SFT ‘without binding’ is to deal with all emissions requests. In reality, this will mean lifting the entire pollution law. The Pollution Act is packed with paragraphs that put clear bindings on the SFT. This is a proposal that is certainly good, and a lot of creativity has probably been used to find a new and exciting approach to the gas power debate. But it is in every way a blow in the air, which will essentially pull away the carpet and beat the legs away from the entire pollution law, so I expect this proposal to be drawn in the course of the debate. Finally, I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e530	Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e535	The representative, Mr Sanner, had so much to say that one of the most important aspects of environmental policy is to ensure access for the public to important natural pearls. One of the main problems has been the dramatic reduction in access to the coast, particularly in the eastern and southern regions of the population, in recent years. In the last 30 years, access for the public to coastal pearls along the Oslofjord has been reduced by 75-80 pst. Nevertheless, in their comments, the Right, together with the Advancement Party, writes that they: «is deeply concerned about the signals on new State directives and laws on the coastal zone issue. A number of coastal municipalities have found good solutions to ensure the rights of all persons in cooperation with the landowners». I would like the representative Sanner to explain to the Stortinget which municipalities – and in particular the municipalities that are right-wing – he believes have found good solutions to ensure the rights of all people. I think we can say that in the central east region there is at least one municipality that has found a good solution to this. It is the municipality of Tjøme, which has secured the rights of all people in a good way in cooperation with the landowners. There is only one significant problem with that of the representative, Sanner, in relation to Sande, Nøtterøy and Sandefjord, who, unlike Tjøme, has considerably restricted all-man rights, and that is that the Tjøme municipality is workers' party governed, while the other municipalities are Right-led. So my question to the representative Sanner is: when he goes against state directives, but believes that there are examples of municipalities that practice this in a good way, which ensures the right of the public to enjoy the natural pearls, does that mean that he is going to recommend people to vote the Workers' Party in the municipalities? Because that's the last step he's left with to secure the all-man right that he at least claims to want in terms of the defence property, which I agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e545	It's an important question the representative Hornslien addresses, and here the Labour Party and the Right have slightly different approaches. While the Labour Party has settled on a conflict-prone line, the Right has settled on a conflict-modifying line. I can mention municipalities. Both Asker, Bærum and Nøtterøy are three right-hand municipalities that have put a lot of work into finding agreements with the landowners, among others. in the case of the establishment of coastal paths. If we look at what has happened in recent years, the Workers' Party has proposed to cut the allocations for the bonding of open air areas. The right has proposed to increase those appropriations. I am pleased that the Workers' Party now for next year's budget wants to increase the appropriations, but not at very close to the Right. We believe that this is a conflict mitigation measure, where the state enters and buys properties that can be transferred to open-air areas. I also point out that the Right in the Stortinget proposed that parts of the defence property to be offered for sale be allocated to open air areas and that priority should be given to it. The Labour Party voted against this. We believe that it is wrong to use the power of the state to force the municipalities to pursue a policy that we believe the municipalities can more effectively pursue themselves. There's a difference between the municipalities. We believe that this is an area where it is essential that local autonomy prevails, and we believe that the local rapporteur or local councillor will be more able to identify conflict-relieving measures and find good agreements with the landowners.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e555	Sometimes you can wonder whether Right is a small environmental party or not. Because in speech it often sounds like there's an environmental policy that's talking about. But then you can go to the practical things – which you often have to do in the budget. And then it's true that the Right has an analysis of the climate problem that is in line with the majority of population, namely that there is a need for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. But then there are questions about what the concrete environmental actions from Right involve. Is it going to be less greenhouse gas emissions if one reduces petrol taxes and makes sure that there is an increase in driving? Is there going to be less greenhouse gas emissions? I guess no one claims as far as I know. Will there be less greenhouse gas emissions if a gas power plant is built on gas power plants, now last in Forest, which the Right and Workers' Party are forcing through, with 2 million. tonnes of CO2 emissions? Is there going to be less greenhouse gas emissions? And there will be less greenhouse gas emissions from cutting alternative renewable energy at 70 million. kr, how does Right do? Is it not to go contrary to the environment? And when you look at the concrete actions, sort of falls away a lot of the arguments that can sometimes sound a little positive. Then to the SFT. A number say in the budget setting that SFT should be a heavy professional player in environmental management – a heavy professional player. On 9 March, the Right Party and the Labour Party carried out some kind of political castration of the SFT, as one did not get permission to mean anything about gas power. Is it so that the Right now wants to restore the SFT as the control and supervisory body it was supposed to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e562	The role of the SFT is established. The SFT shall operate within the bounds of the pollution law. It was also stated in the setting that was dealt with in Stortinget on 9 March. The new thing is that the centre parties now want the Storting to decide that the SFT should carry out its work without bindings. And then it has to be without the bonds that are in the pollution law. It will be exciting to see whether SV intends to vote in favour of this proposal, or whether it is such that the centre parties simply find out that this proposal was a little creative, and that it is being drawn during the debate. The representative of Langeland belongs to the old school of environmental policy. It's not really environmental policy until it hurts. We see this in particular in climate policy. The right believes that ambitious targets should be set in climate policy and that we should have ambitious targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But it has to be on a global level. For this, an international problem needs to be addressed through international bodies, and through flexible implementation mechanisms and cost-effective measures. If it is that we can reduce emissions more by investing in emission reduction measures in other countries, it means that alone we can go further. But if everyone within their own little bubble, or within their own national borders, is going to do all the emission cuts, it simply means that we can't get as far as we need to to get control of the climate problem. I think SV wants to get control of this and believe it's best, but you make it good to the best enemy when you're so alone and focused on national measures, and you don't want to see how we can solve this through international solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e571	When the Kyoto agreement was clubbed through three years ago, it was literally rusted up in the clouds by the Right as a historic first step to slow down so-called global man-made climate change. Gradually, the agreement has been very boring. The reasons for that are many. Economic burden-sharing is one reason, and lack of faith in the doomsday prophets in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is another. There are many scientists who are very doubtful about the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and I have shown that earlier in this Chamber. I would just like to refer to a recent example, namely an article in the Evening Post on 1 December, which researches Pål Breek, indicates that solar activity and not CO2 can be the main cause of a temperature increase. As the representative, Mr Sanner, is well aware, many are critical of the United Nations Climate Panel on research teams. Does the representative Sanner and Right intrude into more recent research that is critical to the predictions of the United Nations Climate Panel? Now the Right likes to profile itself as a party for business, but does the Representative not see the consequences of the Kyoto agreement, which will cause a severe deterioration for the oil and gas industry, which is currently Norway's main industry? Does not the representative also see the risk of distortion of competition and thus loss of Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e578	Here we see one of the significant differences between the Progress Party and the Right. I have no problem with either seeing or recognizing that it is scientists who also provide the Progress Party back coverage. But the question we have to answer is, do we take the chance? Should we put our trust in the fact that some scientists, those who don't believe in the climate problems, are right, while all the others are wrong? That's the critical question. Should we have a fact-based environmental policy based on the Progress Party, or should we also focus on the precautionary principle? The right, like both the centre, the Working Party and the SV, emphasise the precautionary principle and that it should govern environmental policy. The progress party is deeply concerned about what this can mean for Norwegian business. I'm of a different opinion. I think it is better to view this as a challenge, and fortunately, large parts of the business community view the Kyoto agreement as a major challenge and as an opportunity to gain new technological leaps and opportunities to win in the competition we are now seeing, to be the best in the environment. I'm not so worried that we're not going to land on the Kyoto agreement. There's a big point here that you haven't reached goals in the last three years. If you look at the dimensions of this agreement, it's no wonder that countries spend some time reaching agreement. I agree that it's urgent, but at the same time, when we see how much time you spend here in Stortingen to agree on a budget agreement, well, it was probably almost 50 days when it melted with doors and became more broken along the way, it's not so strange that you take some time to reach an international agreement with as large dimensions as the Kyoto agreement has.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e587	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e590	Earlier today, the representative Frafjord Johnson has shown that the central part of the budget came out well with the Labour Party, including in the field of energy and the environment. For example, the Ministry of the Environment has increased its budget by 42 million. Compared with the Government's proposal. Isolatedly, there is no large sum, of course, but it will allow for results in areas where relatively small public licenses trigger great activity. A good example is entry 1429 The Riksantikvar, which is worth $6 million. to provide more information for the protection and protection of peace and cultural heritage and the cultural environment. Half of these funds shall be used for technical and industrial cultural memory. For a representative of the hordes, it is nice to register that the Tyssedal is specifically named. But when true, there is a great deal left before the industrial monuments are satisfactory. The same can be said for the protection of vessels. The majority of the Committee has obtained additional funds to enable the restoration of the 'Hestman' boat to continue, and it is a pleasure. Nevertheless, it is a fact that Norway has not followed up the coastal and industrial culture very closely, as is the case with memories of agricultural culture. So far, we have not had an adequate view of the historical staff from peasant to industrial communities. That perspective should be safeguarded in view of long-term budgetary priorities. Let me mention a project that is still struggling in the headwind, despite the fact that the public has invested several million, despite the fact that the majority of the finance committee a few years ago asked the government to support full funding. I'm thinking about Lynggiesteret in Hordaland. The project has a high status internationally. When the official Norwegian environmental profile is presented abroad, the Lyngghästeret is assigned high status. For this reason, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to remind the Council of State that action should follow words in this case, and I would like to express the hope that the issue of final funding may be taken up in the context of the budget review for spring. I note that the Centre Party has strengthened the Ministry of the Environment's budget by 42 million. kr. However, there is no mention of the environmental profile in the budget. As others have noted, an important signal in this round is the commitment to public transport, a measure that is most necessary. It closed with the Labour Party's plans to add 150 million to the transport budget. kr to this area. As far as it looks today, 20 million will. I'm going to go home. I think I can venture on the promise that these funds will be used where they provide the greatest possible environmental benefit, that is, in public transport in Bergen. So a few words about the budget for the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I remember that the Stortinget essentially ended up with the energy message that Bondevik, the government, presented. The message claimed that about a decade was needed. EUR 5 billion to implement the measures needed to convert energy use and energy production. Hence, we found reason to criticise the Government for the lack of follow-up. I refer here to St. prp. No 1st@item: But fortunately, again, the budget negotiations with the Labour Party succeeded, and there was an increase of 60 million. kr. The permissions level is still lower than the ones the message was chosen for. Nevertheless, we can now state that we are in the process of realizing the main lines that the Stortinget has established for the future energy policy. We have had a hard debate on gas power plants for several years. The question of the direct use of gas has been raised by a doctor in the shadow of this debate. The more pleasant it is that the natural gas is now being looked at in a larger perspective. That it's going to be allowed 20 million. kr for the transport of gas to the Bergen region, is a superfluous important signal in this way. As well as Haugesund as Bergen has long distinguished themselves in this context, and what is happening now can be seen as a sign that the use of natural gas is given a more important place in national policy, and that the state will participate in the development of an infrastructure that makes it possible to use natural gas industrially and within the transport sector, where there are clear environmental gains by phasing out heavier oil products. I would also like to point out at the end of the day that there are extra promises to the Swedish Maritime Administration. One doesn't have to remember more than a year back, because there were scary consequences in the West compared to the fact that the ferries aren't safe enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e609	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e612	In its main priorities under the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, the Centre Parties state that ‘there is a need to reverse the proposals for reductions proposed by the Government while increasing efforts in several areas’. I would like to remind you that in the government's draft government budget there was an increase of 80 million. kr on the Ministry of the Environment’s budget. The central budget agreement saw an additional increase of 42 million. kr. In part, strong words were used by the centre parties on the environmental profile of the Government's draft government budget, and the designation of the worst has been used by, in particular, the head of the centre party. I could then imagine asking the representative Lussand what name he would use about the central government's proposal for the 2000 budget for the Ministry of the Environment, which was significantly lower than the Workers' Party's proposal for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e617	To that extent, of course, we're very satisfied that we got an increase in environmental spending by these 42 million dollars. I found it a little difficult to comment on questions in relation to the previous year's budget. But I think there is every reason to be proud of what has happened, when we see the totality of the budgetary agreement done, not only within the Ministry of the Environment's budget, but the totality of the budget, which has been given a clearer environmental profile through this cooperation. It actually seemed to me that the Labour Party and the Centre Party should be happy together.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e622	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e625	I'm taking up SV's proposal, so I won't forget it. I want to start by giving tribute to the Energy and Environment Committee for their support for the SV proposal to speed up the work on looking at the safety of oil workers in the North Sea. This is also a theme that naturally drowns in this debate, but it is an important theme that is now on the agenda and will be followed up by the Government. Anyone who wants to see understands that something has to be done about the climate problem. Not least the constant Western world is eating heavily on people here in the Austland. And even though the sun shines in Trøndelag, everyone who wants to, understands that there should not be a drying period now in the fall. For us in our part of the world, this is the world to live with. But for many of the world's poor, climate problems can have a fatal outcome. We've seen that in Orissa, India, Bangladesh and Colombia. And while our Environment Minister can stand under the umbrella with the United States and other major climate problems producers, the world's poor has nothing to protect itself with and get or no action to take to limit climate problems. Responsibility lies with us in the rich part of the world. Then it's going to be all over the world that the meeting in The Hague will be a forest planting meeting and more like a world congress for forest owners than it should be: a report on what has been done and what needs to be done in order to solve the climate problems. In that case, the representative from the Right would like to say that it is stupid of the SV to be concerned with only national measures. The problem for the Labour Party and the Right is precisely that they are not concerned with the national measures, as they should be, to show example for others. And when the SFT has to give new emission routes to all gas power plant projects following orders from the Right and the Workers' Party – now last Forest with 2 million. tonnes of CO2 emissions i plus – tell us why Norway is on the forest planting team and not on the one that will do something nationally with greenhouse gas emissions. So it's decisive that we use the resources we have to do our part of the job. It does not include this budget - on the contrary, more will be affected by climate problems with the profile that the budget has. The Centre Party has managed to make up a terrible climate and environmental budget from the Workers' Party, but then these parties are involved in increasing emissions of greenhouse gases with cheaper fuels. A further 2 billion kroner, which could have been used to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, are now being used to increase them through low fuel charges. Nor did the center part of the negotiations require a gas power plant to charge a CO2 tax or to have the SFT released again. SV would like to be in the negotiating position and, of course, bet on it for the next option. But the next time the centre party is going to negotiate with the environmental inadequacies of the Labour Party, they should study SV's draft budget. The environment would then be the most important issue in the negotiations. Our proposal contains what is needed to convert energy consumption. We double the effort in this field, while increasing the effort by 75 pst. in the field of research. This is necessary in order to take the Kyoto agreement seriously, and it could have made Norway the transit country that is now needed to move forward in the negotiations on climate problems. The use of gas on land to replace more polluting energy sources has taken a lot of time this time, and the Committee has taken a step further. SV supports the Government's proposal to add the new Energy Directorate to Trondheim, but this proposal is not supported by the Government Party. This is amazing. SV increases the frame to MD by 160 million. This is what it takes to get an environmental effort in Norway. SV is now alone to have an offensive environmental policy. It tells us we're sorry, and it says everyone who wants a forward-looking environmental policy is willing to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e645	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e650	In the comments on the setting and to the extent that the article has now received a lot of attention on the use of gas in Norway. And that's good. There should, of course, have been even more attention around it. Increased use of gas will be a major concern for industrial development, for environmental policy and for the transport sector in the future. SV and the centre parties propose to establish a national gas land-based gas centre, and they propose to add it to Haugesund. They therefore propose that the Stortinge should adopt something which could have a very significant impact on such a major and important issue as increasing the use of gas in Norway, and that the Stortinge should decide to add it to Haugesund without having assessed it at all. There are several places in Norway that have a lot of experience in using gas for many types of purposes, and the Stortinge must have the opportunity to assess the alternatives. There is no basis to claim that it is Haugesund who has the greatest competence and is absolutely the right place to place such a gas centre. The funny thing is that, at the same time, the Swedish Government – and the whole committee to this extent – is asking for a notification of an increased use of gas. It's approaching Christmas, and this proposal is probably nothing but a Christmas greeting to the voters in Rogaland. It cannot be the case that the Storting today will adopt a proposal without the Storting at all having intervened in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e659	No, it's not Christmas yet. It's actually the way we follow up the government's proposal, but we're going a step forward. The government said they'd like to add the new energy directorate to Trondheim. That says yes. However, we say no to this Energy Directorate, which is going to carry on with alternative renewable energy, for example, in fossil fuels. It doesn't matter, so we're subtracting that part. But in fact it is then SV who takes care of the Government's view in this matter. And then the proceedings should be good enough, as long as the government has in a way set up this race. So I don't understand at all this objection from Hegna's side, but it's well because he's from Grenland and he's worried about the Grenland area. That's why he has to go into action on a proposal that's about Rogaland, and where Rogaland is actually in the front.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e664	I have with interest registered the representative Langeland's commitment to increasing the use of gas in Norway and Rogaland in particular. It should be a well-known matter that SV and the representative Langeland have actively countered the locomotive itself to use gas in Norway, namely gas power plants. In the setting SV supports that the Government must develop an overall strategy for the use of gas in Norway. SV also supports a pioneering project in the Bergen area and a gas application centre in the Haugesund area, as well as the creation of a new energy conversion body in the Trondheims area. Here SV and Langeland act in the best Ole Brumm style – and not just yes to both, but yes to all three or all four. At the same time, the representative of Langeland travels around Rogaland, talking a lot about increasing the use of gas in the county. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Langeland: would it not be reasonable to wait for the overall strategy to come from the Government before taking a position on this? And doesn't the representative of Langeland see that his support for all these projects can just weaken a further investment in Rogaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e673	SV has clearly a good point because all the lines are directed towards Rogaland County and towards the fact that the Haugesund area in Rogaland is in front of it when it comes to the use of gas on land, among others. on buses, taxis and in order to phase out the use of oil in industry — all positive environmental effects. There is, of course, no contradiction in this. On the contrary, it is making this policy more offensive by saying that we should now have a centre for this, and that centre should be in Haugesund. It's Vaksdal who has problems here, because he's not going to be involved in anything that's going to reduce the climate problem. The only step forward is to increase them by building as many gas power stations as there is room for in this country. That's the problem, and it's a major challenge. SV has never been against using gas on land as long as it is better than the option that exists, so it is gas, among other things. used in transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e680	The representative of Langeland has made it his glan number to point out that the petrol price is being slightly adjusted as a result of the budgetary agreement. But we are equally fully operating with a petrol price on the level of one foreseen when the budget for the current year was being treated, and with which SV was very satisfied. There was no proposal from SV regarding the budget to increase the price of petrol by several kroner. As regards the efforts made by the central parties in the budgetary negotiations, SV is not satisfied with it. I am. In terms of the environment, a total of half a billion dollars have been transferred to important environmental projects — some in the budgets under consideration today, others in areas relating to Tatra, framework conditions for electric cars, district heating, etc. In the practical world, where policies are shaped and changed, these are major changes. For a seminar party such as SV it is possible that it is not enough, but if SV is to move from the sideline and so close to the track that they can at least see where the decisions are taken, they must learn to collect such things as a significant victory. So to a concrete question. All parties, except SV, say that where the Staten Kartsverk is in a competitive relationship with private operators, conditions should be facilitated for equivalent competitive conditions. Unlike the previous SV, when this case has been commented on, among other things. in the Financial Committee, one is not here. I am aware that Langeland is among the SVs who get anxiety attacks every time he sees an AS behind a company name, and that he is therefore sceptical to private actors in areas like this. But what is the background to the fact that SV will not help Norwegian companies to participate in this important work related to the mapping and development of electronic navigational charts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e689	SV clearly has a lot of good points in relation to the profile we have on environmental policy. It illustrates not least the Left, which is now rushing for air to tell how good this budget has been after the negotiations. But then a second thing to do is to see the truth in the eye, because the reality is that one takes two billion dollars away and says that petrol and diesel should be cheaper, that more CO2 should be emitted from traffic and transport, that there should be more transport on the roads and less on the roads. This is not environmental policy, it is the opposite. And then one has to choose to look at it in the eye and say that unfortunately we didn't get the environmental profile that we were thinking about, because it's only SV that stands for that profile. And we'll make sure that comes forward. When it comes to the Mapping, I would just say that, in a budgetary procedure, it is now time to change the Mapping framework in favour of private, it is not willing, but the problem is now known, and when, for my part, the knowledge of the issue is increasing, it may well be that a country is landing at the position it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e696	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e699	There has been a significant increase in the two budget areas that we are discussing today – to the Ministry of the Environment about. 50 million. kr and to the Ministry of Oil and Energy 60 million. kr related to an additional measure and alternative energy sources. As I said in my reply to the representative Langeland, this constitutes, together with increased appropriations for collective, Tautra, fee, etc., in the order of half a billion dollars. And in areas that affect the emissions in urban areas, there has been significant intervention in relation to public transport, which gives a different result and a different profile to our efforts in budgetary negotiations than what the representative Langeland is trying to draw. I can promise that the Left, when dealing with the national transport plan, will be hard pressed for an environmental profile, not least in relation to urban areas. It was said from SV that it is now that the party is alone on the barricades for the environment. But the situation is not so sad. On the contrary, we now have a government option, the central parties, which sets the environment as one of the highest priority areas. And that's a situation that's uplifting, and that gives reason to believe that the environment is going to be more central in the election campaign than it has been before. The changes made to the Ministry of the Environment budget provide for significant improvements in important areas. Cultural memory measures have been strengthened in such a way that more resources have been allocated to vessel protection and technical and industrial cultural memories. The same applies to outdoor activities and more to liming. And that is – and I think it is important to emphasise – an increase in the grants to the organisations. Together with the cessation of the economic cycle tax, there is a significant contribution for actors that are of major importance for environmental work both in the community and in the national arena. For the Left, it is also very important that we have put in place more money for electronic navigational charts; it is related to both safety and the environment. And it is important that the majority of the Committee decides that the appropriations for this should be stepped up so that the need can be met by 2006. This year the Government did not contribute to achieving this objective through its budget proposal. In the case of alternative energy sources, there is a significant upsurge in the current situation as a result of the cooperation agreement between the centre parties and the Working Party. But we are in a situation where feedback from the department shows that there is inertia in the use of this money, and I ask that the Council of State help to change it. There seems to be room for some major allocations, for some of the projects that receive funding, strands because other contributors do not get in place. It is important that the funds made available in this area are used. The left supports the idea of an island centre in Trondheim, but we are very concerned, like the environmental movement and people working for alternative energy sources, that one does not mix together gas and renewable energy sources. That is why we want gassing to be handled in a separate centre, and that is good reason for it to be in Haugesund. That rationale is just as good as the reason why we're adding the anesthetic centre to Trondheim. Today, the SFT budget is being allocated to the funds we believe are needed to operate properly, but they also need freedom and space for action in order to make decisions on an independent and professional basis. The gas power case shows that the SFT could not do this. ‘SFT is bogged down’ by the Department, was former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch’s formulation. He calls this "unhappy and unhappy". ‘It may not be that the Storting by law assigns responsibility and authority to a body... and then, through a plenary decision, oversees it’, says Willoch. And I share his view. He says that regardless of the gas power case, there is a need for a fundamental debate in this area, because the Right Party and the Workers' Party introduce what he calls a new state custom. There is a background to the proposal for a decision today on the SFT, which emphasises the free, independent position of the SFT and the need to take decisions on a professional basis. Of course, the wording on binding that stands there relates to decisions in the individual case, that SFT should not have a role where one delivers on order, but on the basis of its best judgement and according to the law that one manages. I want to end with a problem that I hope the Council of State can comment on. There was one thing on the news the other day that the necessary PCB research related to the project at Svalbard had to stop. It seems to me to be worrying, and I hope the Council of State can comment on it during its post or in subsequent rowing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e716	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e719	Over the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, 5 million will now be allocated. kr for cleaning up related to Tautra. But this is just part of the cost. A molo shall be removed and a bridge shall be built and costs shall be up to 40 million. kr. The Committee on Transport will propose the granting of funds that would otherwise have been used for important road purposes. Although it costs a lot, now the Right Party, the Workers' Party and the Center Parties stand together to sort out the situation at Tautra. The main comments made by the centre party on the budget say that settling the situation at Tautra is about Norway’s international reputation as an environmental nation. Mr Johnson said in his speech that the Environment Minister Siri Bjerke has been rescued from ‘an embarrassing international affair’. My question to Kvassheim is then: why didn't the Left take the initiative to settle such a embarrassing affair when they themselves sat with the Minister for the Environment? Because it is known that the problems at Tautra have existed for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e727	I see Tautra as an important environmental issue. I'm not sure that the replicator belongs to that part of the Workers' Party that means the same thing, but at least that's my starting point for the commitment in this case. This matter should have been resolved earlier, and there have been funds in public budgets before. But the progress in the matter was such that this stopped, and that was the way the budget was presented to Stortinget, that the Minister for the Environment threw in the towel and said that this defeat we just have to take, this project we have not been able to get the funds to bear. And the crunching of the project is an expression of a completely different attitude from that of the previous government. That's why it was important for the center parties to help get money in place. We were able to do so both in the Ministry of the Environment's budget and in the Ministry of Transport's budget. The fact that funds in the Ministry of Transport’s budget went from other projects to an environmental project is a desired re-priority based on a desire to ameliorate the environmental profile of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e734	I still want a clarification from the Left when it comes to the Left and the Centre's environmental profile, for the first time linked to the petrol and diesel taxes. And then the question is this: if you reduce the price of petrol and diesel, that means that you increase the competitiveness of, for example. lorry industry, while weakening the competitiveness of the railway? Is it a correct analysis, or is it entirely wrong to say that cheap fuel leads to increased transport on the roads? If this is wrong, I understand that there is a good environmental policy that has been implemented when one has reduced the petrol and diesel taxes by 2 billion kroner. An explanation of that would have been favorable. And so I also thought it would be appropriate to point out that the centre party is quite right to correct some of the misery that the Labour Party's environmental policy is characterized by. At the same time, however, the center part cuts posts on the environmental budget, including the following: on environmental monitoring, as it is now in connection with a case on Her Island, among others. appears to be very necessary to give priority to obtaining proper data. And a cutter also significantly in the field of international investment. Is this also an expression to the Left of its clear environmental profile on the Storting, and is this also an expression of one’s success when one has been cut in important areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e741	The left wants high charges for car use, and that is why we have said that we can defend a price level of about $10. And we're still going to do that. But what we saw in winter was a development in which the price went much higher than this, beyond a level that no one in this room as I have heard, has said they want. But it could have been interesting at an appropriate opportunity to hear SV's consideration of what is the right price level, when, like Steinar Lem in the Future in our hands, one wants $20 per. liters. Then I think the result would be that there would be even fewer environmental politicians in this room than it is now. And it's a main problem that there's too few who are concerned about this. The left sees the link between petrol taxes and the commitment to good collective solutions. That's why there was such a bad grip in the budget, where one didn't have enough for public transport. One would have VAT on public transport while at the same time having lower taxes on petrol. The device is completely different now. And I can reassure Langeland that we are going to further develop and strengthen the environmental profile in relation to these issues when the national transport plan is discussed. It is such that the Ministry of the Environment’s budget is strengthened by 50 million. kr through the budgetary agreement. In addition, there's an increase of 60 million. kr on the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. It's a significant change, even if you look at the changes in the previous years. And I had probably waited for a little recognition from SV that this is a contribution in the right direction. It is also the case that when one increases the appropriations for some items, one has to make changes to other items. For example, it has been necessary to be able to do something in relation to salmon and compared to Tautra; there has also been SV in the world of reality and made adjustments in some items. That's the explanation of the question that Langeland had.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e757	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e760	I will first make a few comments about the oil and energy department's budget and our position in relation to it. The direct economic involvement of the state — the four letters DØE — has been the subject of considerable debate here in the United Kingdom, among people and also at the National Labour Party meeting. In budgetary terms, there is agreement on the level of appropriations for 2001 and the level of the State's share of the investments on the base, although reductions in the level of investments are also made this year. Petroleum investment plays a major role in the level of activity in the Norwegian economy. The reductions in investment which have taken place from 1998 to the current date have resulted in the loss of many, many jobs in this sector. Although it is not realistic to maintain the high level of investment in 1998, it is important to contribute to a more even level of activity. The disagreement on this sector is linked to the powers to be conferred on the Ministry in connection with development projects. Today, the Ministry is authorised to authorise projects within the framework of DKK 5 billion. A majority of the Workers' Party and the Right want to support the Government's proposal for a mandate to increase this framework to DKK 10 billion, while a minority proposes to maintain today's powers. I also allow myself to link some comments to the Ministry of the Environment's budget and the Committee's position in a few areas. The working party has been and is a leading party in ensuring the rights of all persons. It gives everyone access to outdoors, nature experiences and recreation. This is important for people. Work on the organisation of public areas of freedom will be strengthened in 2001. In particular, public open spaces are needed in the coastal zone and it is important to continue the work on the organisation of archipelago parks. That is why the Workers' Party has sought that the majority in the Committee, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the SV and the Left, try to doubt the Workers' Party's position on the use of defence property for non-profit purposes. In the Labour Party, of course, we share the majority's views on this matter. I can assure you that, once the long-term defence plan has been completed in Stortinget, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Defence will start work on facilitating the areas of public interest that have a public interest. I can assure the majority that at least in the South there are many beautiful ‘sleeved eyes’ that belong today to the Defence and to which it attaches great interest when the Defence moves. And that's what the defense of the South does. They're moving. Finally, prayers are not often heard until the budget is debated in the Grand Duchy. An overall committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, asks in the Minutes for clarification of the budget of the departments which are naturally charged to appropriations for the restoration of church buildings. Among other things, we have referred to as Stavanger Cathedral. But what is more natural than that the Information Society's fund is responsible for caring for the cultural values that lie in ancient church buildings? In fact, there should be many more than the Nidarosis. In the message entitled 'Birth and Cathedral' presented by the Church Council Trond Giske, he makes a short process and commits to using the immense values of the church to keep the national sanctuary in order. However, as mentioned earlier, it should also be possible to apply other church cultural taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e782	We in the Progress Party are very skeptical about the creation of national salmon rivers and fjords, which is one of the main actions in the setting up of the Villaks Committee. What we fear is that it will cause major problems for the national bet that must and should be in breeding. Breeding has often been blamed for a reduction in salmon stocks in rivers and watercourses in recent years. It is therefore gratifying to note that the year’s salmon fishing has been the best in many decades in several rivers and streams here to land. The fight against Gyrodactylus salaris should be a high priority task in the future. In our view, it will therefore be important to allocate the necessary resources, both for research and for combating «gyro». Rotenon is the only substance currently used in Norwegian watercourses to control ‘gyro’. We in the Progress Party are very skeptical about the use of rotenone, a poison that kills almost all organisms in a watercourse. It is a fact that the use of rotenone has also been very unsuccessful in many watercourses, as ‘gyro’ has again been demonstrated after treatment with rotenone. It is therefore interesting to note that Norwegian researchers have conducted eye-catching laboratory tests with elevated metal concentrations in water, where they have managed to kill the salmon parasite without killing a single salmon. Therefore, on the basis of research and scientific criteria, such treatment should be considered as an alternative to rotenone treatment. Acid precipitation is a pollution problem in large parts of South Norway, leading to fish deaths in many rivers and streams. In order to remedy these damage, funds are necessary for the liming of rivers and watercourses. Once again, the Government has cut the appropriations for liming. It seems as if one is ignoring the consequences which this can have and which will largely affect the many small and large-scale liming projects. We believe this is a totally wrong signal to send out to people who have spent a lot of their leisure time saving water and watercourses for many years. Particular attention should be paid to the work done to ensure fish stocks, which will allow people to fish for sport and to experience the living nature. It will also be a good social investment in the form of entrepreneurial income for owners and communities. We are aware that the need for appropriations is far greater than the funds that are currently being set aside, and for us it will be a natural goal to grant what is necessary. Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association has demanded that the appropriations for liming should be increased to 118 million. kr. In our main draft budget, we in the Progress Party have proposed to increase the appropriations for liming by over 23 million. kr in relation to what the Government laid down in the submission of the State budget in the autumn. This will be fully in line with the needs of the Norwegian Hunters and Fishermen's Association. I record with some amazement that whatever the political colour of governments, it was cut off in the allocation of liming, then in the subsequent budget compromise to add on with a few million. It's just to hope that the next year will be a majority on the Biggest to follow the Advance Party in this area as well. There has been a lot of talk about climate and bad weather in this debate. Now there's a lot of faith and doubt about climate change. I'll give you an example of that. According to the Nettavis, 68 pst fear. It's getting worse after the TV 2's prestigious Elin Tvedt ends up on TV 2. Only 32 pst. thought the popular blonde's decision was not going to affect the weather. So that's hope for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e805	Environmental considerations need to be integrated into the decision-making process in all areas of society, and environmental protection policy needs to be developed in a multi-generational perspective. Globalisation requires the strengthening of international environmental protection work, while at the same time supporting environmental protection policy locally in the municipalities. It is also important to strengthen the dialogue with non-governmental organisations and industry in order to trigger even more environmental efforts in this important part of society. Environmental protection policy is therefore far beyond the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. I would like briefly to mention that the Ministry of Agriculture's environmental impact related to the agricultural agreement has increased. In the Ministry of Transport budget, there is a total increase in specific environmental measures along existing roads and in public transport. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is increasing its environmental performance in relation to nuclear safety measures in Russia, while the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is increasing its funding for State radiation protection. The government provided an offensive budget for the Ministry of the Environment next year. Important priorities in it are: outdoor cultural memory protection management of predators management of wild game climate research The budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties further strengthened the Ministry of the Environment's budget. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement helps to strengthen key areas which the Government has prioritised in its proposal. It's a regrettable fact that many of our cultural memories are decaying. The growth of cultural memory protection appropriations in 2001 is a first important step in increasing efforts, which must also be seen in the context of private and municipal efforts in the future. The increased effort next year will be positive for communities, and the effort will strengthen the knowledge that must underpin the good treatment of our common cultural memories. I can assure those representatives who have taken it up that we are already working on a cross-ministerial work related to the cultural memories in Tyssedal – it will be very important to move on in this. The government is committed to ensuring good opportunities for outdoor life and recreation in nature. In particular, we will work to prevent further privatisation in the coastal and coastal zones. It is also important to ensure the right of movement for all along the coast. I am pleased to receive support from the Committee on Increased Appropriations for the Protection of Outdoor Areas and the Archipelago Parks. The government is adding a priority follow-up to the Villaks Committee's position, with a significant budget increase. We have focused on conservation measures, a separate research programme for wild salmon and measures against the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. I have noticed that the committee is concerned with the problem of ‘gyro’, and I will come back to Stortinget with a complete review of this fighting work. The project to ensure biodiversity in the Tautra bird reserve has never been scrapped. Under the budgetary agreement, there was an agreement to grant 5 million. kr to secure the project. These funds constitute the Ministry of the Environment's share of the project, and I am pleased that we will be able to start this project next year with the appropriations from the Ministry of Transport and the county municipalities. The government proposes to strengthen game management in next year's budget. This also means an important strengthening of the role of municipalities in setting up municipal wildlife funds. It is also important to test and apply measures at the level of buffalo and domestic animals in order to avoid predatory damage. I have noticed in particular that the majority is satisfied with the Government's proposal to streamline and further develop damage documentation work and the construction of a state hunter's corps. Such a hunting corps will be important to ensure the effective killing of predators that do damage. It is my hope that we will gradually achieve greater calm and consensus on the management of our predators, and I am pleased that this effort has the support of a majority of the committee. Climate negotiations in The Hague ended in disappointment. I think it was a temporary setback, and our own efforts in this important field continue with unreserved strength nationally and internationally, as demonstrated by my statement on the climate problem a few days ago. In the 2001 budget, the Government proposes to increase significantly the appropriations for research and development in the field of climate change. In this context, let me briefly comment on the proposal of individual parties concerning State pollution control. The Ministry of the Environment is responsible for providing guidance to the SFT, as its underlying professional body, so that they can use their professional role and weight in the best possible way. The governance dialogue takes place in different ways. In this case, there are three starting points that have been important to me. One is the Ministry of the Environment's responsibility for the management of the pollution law. The second is the very clear decision taken by the Stortinget on 9 March of this year, which it should not be necessary to go into more detail here, and the third is the very clear wish expressed by the State pollution control body as a specialist body to get guidelines on how to apply the pollution law in relation to CO2 emissions. The guidelines given are a follow-up to the responsibility I have for SFT having these necessary framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e849	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e852	As the Committee notes, the allocation of electronic navigational charts is a priority matter for the Stortinget. This is one of the main safety measures that the State of the sea can contribute to. The size has previously asked the Government to step up the allocation of electronic navigational charts, so that the need can be met by 2006, as has been underlined by a unanimous committee in the budgets for both 1999 and 2000. I have to say that I was very surprised that the government has smooth and almost arrogantly exposed that goal by ten years. As the Chairman of the Committee said in his statement, everyone knows the need for electronic navigational charts and that they should be completed by 2006. But if everyone knows about it, I have to ask the Council of State: why was it cut so that the goal was postponed for ten years? Was it an accident at work, or has the Council of State ignored what the Stortinget has said for two consecutive years?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e861	I share the view expressed by an overall committee in this budgetary position that it is very important that the work on making electronic charts across our coast is being carried out and continued. It has been working intensively on this from the Cartwork's side for several years. Work is more efficient and one has come a long way with it. The government's intention has been to continue the work. On this basis, I am very pleased with what has been agreed and the budgetary agreement in this area, namely to grant additional funds to intensify the work on the electronic navigational charts across the Norwegian coast. As a starting point, the Government will continue to work to achieve this as quickly as possible, in line with the committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e871	The councils concluded their work on the problem of SFT, gas power plants and Forest, but did not have time to reason. I will therefore challenge her a little on that problem: This has been a topic that has been widely debated in recent days. Not least, Kåre Willoch, former Prime Minister and Right-Man, has been very critical of the way the Government has dealt with this – he has also been critical of his own party, Right – in terms of the role of the SFT in the future in relation to pollution problems and emission problems related to the gas power issue. Now the Council of State refers in its statement to a decision by a magnification that should be very clear. That's not the crucial point in our critical assessment of the way the government has handled this. What is the actual situation is that SFT has not been given the opportunity to provide a single professional justification. On the contrary, there is a lot of talk that SFT has had a clear framework to deal with when it comes to professional assessments. Can the Council of State agree with what Kåre Willoch also points out, that in such a practice we are talking about a new state custom? And can the Council of States possibly be willing to help us get a fundamental debate on what role the SFT should play in the future, also in relation to the question of CO2, and not just in relation to all other so-called unproblematic issues that everyone seems to be politically agreed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e882	Let me repeat what I said in my speech, that as the top polluter and directly superior to the State pollution control department, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment to provide guidance to this professional body in areas where there is a need for this. In general, it is also a key task for an overall body to manage the underlying agencies so that they can make the best possible use of their competences and play their role in the management activities for which they are assigned. This is the starting point for my handling this case, and I can't see that what has been done here raises some doubts about the role of State pollution control in addition to what is clearly in the responsibilities between the department and the underlying management body. Thus, the starting point has been the desire of State pollution control even to obtain guidelines on how the pollution law is to be applied in relation to CO2 emissions. For my own part, it has been natural to do this through guidelines, of course based on what is my guideline, the decision of the Stortinge of 9 March this year, where there were very clear leads for the environmental protection authorities to deal with gas-power issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e889	When the Workers' Party took over the government power of ours, they went high on the track to state that they were going to start a work on modernising the public sector. So far, we've seen very little of this. Especially in the state budget now presented, it is very little or nothing that stands, in relation to the statements that came at the time. Later, the ambitions that have been expressed have not subdued, among other things. through Councillor Jørgen Kosmos' statements that he will leave within two years if he has not received anything. But at the same time, the results are waiting. In the Ministry of the Environment’s area of responsibility, it is characterised by top-heavy and bureaucratic governance, while efforts in those areas that really matter — such as research, such as the clean-up of old environmental sins, such as the environment. within PCBs, in support of non-governmental organisations, suffer from a lack of re-priority. It would be much better for the environment if the Minister for the Environment had also undertaken a significant clean-up work within his own area of responsibility, turning the pyramid and letting the funds go to the areas where a truly achieves results. A good example of this is the Local Agenda 21 coordinators around 13 counties, coordinated through the KS system. These funds could also be used for the benefit of non-governmental organisations, so that we had obtained concrete results around the municipalities. When will the Council of State initiate the clearing work within its own area of competence? Because it's the environmental results that matter, not how many employees you have in the different bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e898	I can assure you that the Government's modernization program is on the rails. We want to transfer tasks from bureaucracy to services, we are focusing on decentralisation of tasks, and we are dealing with many exciting challenges in the field of the environment, among others. in areas where there is a basis for a greater transfer of responsibility to local environmental work to municipalities. This concerns work related to cultural memory management and also parts of the pollution area. The work on Local Agenda 21 is a very important area in this way. Over the next year, we will have the opportunity to assess the mechanism that has so far been in place for the local Agenda 21 regional focal point. How we get this work even more active will be very crucial also for how to solve the major environmental challenges. I can also assure the representative Höie that since I became the Minister for the Environment, I have worked a lot on how I can present a plan for the Storting that is linked to the old environmental sins and contaminated land and sediments. I hope that when it comes to complicated work – this is a huge field of work, and a few extra millions in the course of a year’s budget will not be enough to solve this – in the next year, I can present a proposal that the Storting can decide on, on how to move forward in this enormously important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e907	Let me first say that I think that the Minister for the Environment is dealing with some areas that show that the Minister for the Environment is investing in raising some issues, and that seems to me to be positive. Rather, it may seem that in some cases the Minister for the Environment has difficulty getting through his own government, and it does not surprise us in SV. Among other things, I found that: it was particularly positive what was pulled out in relation to Tyssedal, which I also thought was a very important matter. It's mostly money they need, but at least it's a step forward when you're trying to do something cross-ministerial about that. What SV is most concerned about is, of course, climate policy, and what direction Norway is going. So, as I said, Norway is cooperating with the world's world's worst greenhouse gas producers, among other things. U.S.A. It's our countries that create the biggest problems for people in the third world, and that, in that sense, kills many people in the third world, because of the increasing climate problems. That is the question, as long as there is no international agreement: what kind of national action will one take to show roads nationally, but also internationally? Is that right in relation to the taxation of petrol and diesel compared to the transport sector? Does it reduce climate problems? The answer is no. The Minister for the Environment also knows that. Or if a build new gas power plant, does it reduce the climate problem? The answer to that is also no. My challenge to the Minister for the Environment is: What kind of Nazi measures compared to the revised budget can one see lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and not what was received in this ordinary budget, to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e918	It is certainly that I am going to use the next few months to follow up on the budget we are now adopting, and then we will certainly come back to new proposals in the revised national budget. But I have to be allowed to say that it is a completely crazy description when you say that Norway is in the pocket of large countries, among other things. The United States, in terms of climate work. We have an independent line, which is that we need to have the most binding climate agreement, where countries can follow the emission commitments they have made through what was set out in Kyoto. We are working on the forces we have in order for countries to agree on this important work. We are a driving force for developing countries to respond to this work, both in terms of new resources for technology transfer, and in order for them to be able to cope with their own environmental challenges in the construction of economic sectors. The best thing we can do here now is work in relation to the national measures we are going to take, and I have explained the Government's plan related to this. We should work for an allowance system that makes our businesses subject to charges and costs, and that through the quota system, there will be an incentive to further invest in technology, which will also reduce our emissions for our part, as well as that different sectors of society, such as energy and transport, are subject to measures. And this will give us the opportunity to discuss before the revised national budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e927	Let me start by saying that I love the pleasure that the budgetary conciliation has given her. It is an improved budget in the field of the environment. I believe that the wording used by the Council of State earlier in the debate on the SFT was alarming, because it expresses the general view that policy can override everything. And then she's just into what Kåre Willoch calls a new state custom, a lack of distinction. And that's the way we assign responsibility and authority to a body, but then there's a plenary decision in this room that requires a special conclusion. This must be cleaned up, and I do not think the Council's response was reassuring. I'm going to assume that when Kåre Willoch gets read it, there's probably a basis for enough consideration around this, and I can promise the Left will follow this up as well. Then I have a specific question, which relates to a matter that a majority of the committee is behind. Over several years it has been that we have received funds for Stavanger Cathedral in the budget rounds in Stortinget, but there has been an annual battle. Nidaros Cathedral receives an annual provision over the Kuf budget, and the Riksantikvaren and many others point out that Stavanger Cathedral can be compared in many ways with Nidarosdomen. We're talking about national cultural taxes. The majority now ask that the Minister for the Protection of the Environment helps to clarify which department such a task naturally falls under. The second is that one first has to make sure that, pending such clarification, this project is to be provided with funds. Is this view understood by the Council of State and is it prepared to follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e936	With regard to State pollution control, I would like to reiterate the importance it has for State pollution control to continue its work as a professional body, with the professional weight and role of State pollution control. With regard to the Stavanger cathedral, I have taken note of the Committee's comments in this way, and will confirm that the State must take absolute responsibility for these important cultural memories. But I would also like to point out that there is a municipal responsibility here. And to the extent that the state is going to go into the work, it's important that it happens on very special parts of the work, where there is a requirement for knowledge, for a special competence, special competence, which the municipalities in this context do not have. I would like to take an initiative to contact the Minister of the Church on this, and refer to the magnificence recently presented by the Government on the churches, stock exchanges and cathedrals, where one gives positive signals of a stronger effort in relation to protective churches. I see it as natural that the Stavanger cathedral can enter into a similar arrangement as that of Nidarosdom, and the question of how this church can be secured funds in 2001 should be clarified in such a context between the minister of the Church and myself, and I will in future take the initiative to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e945	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e948	In their agreement with the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties have had an impact on key environmental policy areas. The budget has improved significantly, the environmental profile has changed positively. The main change in the deal is a reversal of the cut-off proposal on the side that the Government made. In the face of an increasing consumption of energy in general and electricity in particular, a stronger focus on an increasing andnew renewable energy sources is crucial. The main challenge in the future is to slow down growth in expected strongly increasing consumption. The growth of consumption is the very core problem in the energy sector, and we cannot, as many think, build ourselves out of the difficulties we face in the future. It was therefore important for the centreparts to get funds back to the increase effort in the agreement currently available with the Workersparty. So, at least something, we're going back on the right track, and I'm satisfied with that. Natural gas has become an increasingly central theme in the energy debate. So far, much of the Norwegian gas debate has been focused on the construction of gas power plants. There is no reason to repeat in this debate the disagreement that exists precisely in this matter between the centre parties and the SV on the one hand and the Labour Party and the right parties on the other, but we are given the opportunity to come back to that in other contexts. Unfortunately, the debate we have had on gas power has been a little overshadowed for another important debate, namely the debate on the opportunities that natural gas represents in other areas. Fortunately, it's changing. An overall increase agrees on the possibilities inherent in Norwegian cap gas, not least in relation to industrial production and development in the transport sector. From an environmental point of view, we will achieve significant gains if the gas is correctly applied in the right areas. Contrary to the backwardness of the use of gas in the planned power plants based on current technology, a reasonable domestic use of gas will have many positive aspects. The Christian People's Party therefore supports an active commitment to land-based use of natural gas, including: for industrial development, transport and heating purposes. At present, the Committee asks the Government to develop a comprehensive strategy for the use of gas on the domestic market. There are a number of interesting projects going on, not least in the West, linked to the transport sector. However, it is important to ensure that this effort is stimulated economically, including through State involvement. The Christian People's Party is therefore behind the proposal of 20 million. kr over the state budget of the gas project in Bergen. However, it is important to stress that future infrastructure construction must take account of the opportunities offered by natural gas for industry. Further work on a pipeline to Poland must therefore take account of the opportunities that we have, including: in the region I come from, Grenland, with its heavy industry, for positive and environmentally sound use of gas in our production. It will also be important to further develop a good infrastructure in relation to the landing and distribution of LNG in view of the transport sector. A national natural gas investment should be intensified on this basis and the centre parties therefore propose to establish a separate national gas land-based gas deployment centre. It is important for the Christian People's Party to stress that land-based use of gas must be clearly environmental oriented. The parties to the centre therefore stress the importance of the choice of natural gas projects depending on the projects that are only feasible after the amount of greenhouse gas reduction and that equivalent projects are otherwise treated equally by the country. It is also important to clarify that future gas investment should not be at the expense of otherenhancing and more environmentally friendly solutions. For the centre batches, it was therefore necessary to have an impact on the budgetary agreement in order to separate gas as a separate item in the budget and not be part of the entry for an increment. Finally, in Norway we have a long, weather-hard and sometimes difficult coast. In recent years, we have been reminded of this, for example. through the tragic ‘Sleipner’ accident. A comprehensive committee therefore supports the development of electronic navigational charts. This will be of great help in difficult manoeuvrable coastal areas. Experience from other countries shows that electronic navigational charts are of great importance both for safety at sea and for the environment. The agreement between the centre parties and the Workers' Party has therefore resulted in an increase of 20 million. kr to this bet. An overall committee underlines the need for the previously established progress plan for the development of electronic navigational charts to be firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e974	That the good solutions are found in cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre is a good example of the budget of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. Work-partial government plus 80 million. kr to the Ministry of the Environment. Plus, it's going to be 42 million. Extra in the budget agreement, that is, a total of 122 million. more than the central government spent on the environment in the budget for the current year, which was then referred to as an offensive budget. Last year we started a conversion by increasing the electricity charge and facilitating the competitiveness of alternative energy sources at price. This will be reinforced in the budgetary conciliation by a further increase in the electricity tax and a high level of access appropriations. In addition, earlier this year, this majority of energy messages have been used to strengthen the work of the EU through a reorganisation, the creation of a dedicated energy body and thelegislation of funding. The government has joined this body to add Trondheim. This is a good and sensible choice based on the fact that Trondheim can offer the country’s highest competence in this area. However, the Centre and the SV propose that gas be withdrawn from the new agency. It is justified that gas will compete directly with renewable energy. But I wonder if this is not a substitute argument when these parties in the same sling are proposing to establish their own gas centre in Haugesund. This will mean that no less money will be spent on gas, but much more. One must be incredibly naive if one believes that a separate entry for gas appropriations and a new gas bureaucracy will not come into direct competition with the Ministry of Oil and Energy’s appropriations for energy sources and alternative sources. Outdoor life is important for people's health and quality of life. In addition, it has a challenging effect by making people happy in nature and caring for it. The draft budget of the Workers' Party has therefore doubled the appropriations for the acquisition and binding of open-air areas. In addition, we have joined forces with the Centre to increase support for outdoor activities. But government appropriations alone are not enough. We see that our beaches are privatized and slowly, but surely downgraded. In the last 30 years, access to beaches in the Oslo area has been reduced by 75 pst., because the exemption rules from the ban on building in the coastal zone in many municipalities have become the general rule and not the exception. Right-wing tests in the budgetary position and also in the debate today to present it as if this is the only party that has been committed to outdoor life in recent years. Then there are three things I have to remind the party Right of: firstly, the fact that the Right was in the budget conciliation in 1999 when the appropriations for the outdoor life allocations were on a historic low. The second is that the main reason why the state now has to grant money for the purchase of open-air areas is that the municipalities of the Oslofjord area have been extremely noisy in granting building permits in the 100-metre belt. And it's no secret that the most liberal municipalities are the Right-steered. The third thing I have to remind the Right is that the Workers' Party has raised the question of tightening the law to prevent even more erosion of people's right to use the shoreline. This has gone against the right. The wild salmon stocks are endangered. It has given us a practical example of how important it is to take care of biodiversity. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that we have received support to establish our own research programme for the wild species, and that there has been support for more money to combat the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. Trondheimsfjorden is the world's largest growing area for salmonmeal. Fear is now great that the infection of Gyrodactylus salaris will spread from Steinkjerelva and into the large salmon rivers of Trondheimsfjorden. I am therefore particularly pleased that the majority of the committee has found money to combat the 'gyro' in Steinkjerelva and thus prevent the spread of infection. With this budget, we have taken the first boost to save the North Atlantic salmon population. During 2001, the Government will submit proposals for national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. There are the necessary means to succeed in this rescue operation for the wild.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e996	In the last year, we have had a more comprehensive debate on Norwegian oil and gas activities than in many years. The background for this is that Norwegian pedestal is on its way to a new phase, and major changes have taken place internationally. Over the past 30 years, we have built a strong Norwegian industry cluster linked to the oil and gas industry. That is why our policy in this area is very important for the development of the Norwegian welfare society. The lifetime of Norwegian pedestal has been extended, so its future is longer than its history. The reason for this is the development of new technologies. Our brain power has increased the value of Norwegian pedestal. The Norwegian Research Council has produced a report that states that using new technology can increase Norwegian pedestal values by an additional DKK 900 billion. Given that the State itself takes in approx. 90 pst. of the values of the Norwegian base, this should be a range of bets for more than right. The importance of INTSOK and PETRAD for the internationalisation of the Norwegian supplier industry is addressed to the right. With the ambitions we have for the Norwegian petroleum cluster, it is not enough that the state's investment through INTSOK actually constitutes a tenth of what the state of Alberta in Canada uses to internationalise its petroleum activity. PETRAD complements INTSOK's business in a good way by having a more neutral, non-profit-making and non-commercial profile. In the structural conversion notified by PETRAD, it is important that a person preserves the peculiarity of the foundation and that a person comes up with a financing model that ensures a stable and high level of activity. The right considers that this proposition and national transport plan are not good enough in response to Stortinget’s wish for a comprehensive strategy for the use of natural gas in Norway. We are therefore pleased that the Government will come back with its own big message. Norwegian Gassforum, which through its secretariat is located in Norway’s leading natural gas region, Haugaland, must play a central role in this work. There is significant exposure and impatience in relation to the use of natural gas along the coast. That impatience shows that the government's proposal to spend 20 million dollars. kr on a project in the Bergen region is not sufficient. That's why the Right suggests raising this pot to 70 million. kr. We believe that the state must now commit itself in order to advance the projects that have come a long way, for example. in Rogaland and Trøndelag. A majority of the Committee finds it strange that the Government of this budget is not committed to further developing the efforts already made in the Haugesund area. The initiative in Bergen is good, but it must also give precedent and must mean that equivalent projects are treated equally by the state. When the Government returns to the Stortinget with proposals to set up a new agency, it is also natural to discuss who will take care of and co-ordinate the effort on natural gas on land. The centre parties and the SV have a proposal here. I recommend that they submit that proposal, and that one can re-address the question when the matter comes back. The use of LNG in the transport sector has enormous environmental potential. In this area, the country has all the instruments, especially those related to ferry transport. Despite repeated expressions of political will, we have not come far enough here. Several specific projects are needed here, so that the gas route can soon become a reality. The right is engaged in using the market in the service of the environment. This combined with state requirements can often produce better results than taxes and environmental red tape. That is why we are pleased that we are now receiving an assessment of green certificates in the energy sector. This is a method that comes in the EU area, and Norway has the opportunity to keep up with this development. Norway has to take its responsibility for our wild populations very seriously. That, of course, is justified in our responsibility for biodiversity. But if we wipe out the wild game, it can also have major consequences for our role as a large producer of farmed salmon. Our main brand depends on Norway’s viability. That is why we are now awaiting the follow-up by the Government to the Villax Committee. The right is very pleased that a nearly unanimous committee intervened and secured the disposal of funds for the treatment of the Steinkärkstræstre. A further spread of ‘gyro’ from this watercourse poses a huge threat. It is positive that the work on a rapprochement plan for cultural memory protection is now under way. Even though the Right would want one here to be more offensive, at least it's a beginning. The Riksantikvar has stated that a 20-year perspective requires DKK 4 billion in government appropriations to meet the national targets. It is a paradox that through the law we ensure a significant record and preservation of residues after early human activity, while leaving almost authentic medieval buildings to rot. In this area, the state must feel its considerable responsibility. I refer you to the note about Stavanger Cathedral. The note is meant as a permanent government exposure and not limited to one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1022	We have now been in a very difficult period for the Norwegian oil and gas industry. Conversions in the oil companies and missing assignments to the supplier industry have led to a drastic decrease in the number of added to this industry. From August 1999 to August 2000, the number of people added was reduced by 16 000 to 17 000. This is the greatest downfall ever. This has been a difficult time, especially for those who have become a direct frame. Now, however, optimism is on the way back into the industry. Since spring, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Stortinget have approved new projects for approx. Forty - three billion dollars. In addition, they show a 30 pst increase for new investments next year. in line with the 2001 national budget. This will give investment approximately at the level we have this year, approx. $50 billion. The changes that have been made, and the proposals for changes to the framework conditions, have been important to reverse the unfortunate development, and I am pleased that there are now brighter times for this important industry. It has long been a political desire to use larger parts of our domestic gas. Nevertheless, the permits for domestic use of gas have declined in recent years. I am pleased that this trend is now turning around, and that there is a multiple to quadruple the path for this purpose. If we want to get the use of gas in Norway we need to make it available to several users. It is therefore important to extend the line network in order to allow the gas to be transported to larger user groups. The government's proposal to set aside 20 million. kr for this purpose means that the State will participate for the first time in the development of gas pipelines. To get the most back for these funds, I have seen it as important not to spread them on too many actions, but rather to collect them on one project. The choice of Bergen was natural, because this is a short distance from the landing site, it's already developed a gas market, it's a great potential for further exploitation, and one has very concrete plans that can be realized quickly. If there is a successful project, it will make it much easier to pattern support for the other good projects we are now looking to grow around the country. The climate threat must be taken seriously. It was, therefore, unfortunate that a failure to reach agreement on rules and guidelines related to the Kyoto mechanisms was not achieved. It is important to stress that the Government's ambitions in this area are still at hand. It is now important to continue working to ensure that we have a best possible international climate agreement. I take a very positive view of the processes taking place in the EU and in some Nordic countries, which aim to establish a green certificate market. I want to make sure that Norway is involved in designing its rules in this area as quickly as possible, and that we are simultaneously trying to influence the processes taking place in the Nordic countries and in the EU. The government's commitment to energy saving, renewable energy, increased use of natural gas and research into new energy technologies is also an important part of this work. Through the 20-million prize. For the development of gas power cleaning technologies, the Government has started a work aimed at making such solutions commercially available. The focus on the development of this type of technology is an important measure to achieve the objectives of climate policy. The size has seen concrete targets for the conversion of energy use and energy production. This will be followed up by the Government through an offensive effort on an increasing and environmentally friendly energy production. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement supports this effort. In this context, it is important that we put in place stable funding and a coherent and effective organisation. We have seen over several years that today's organisation is fragmented and not targeted. The government has notified us that we will come back with the necessary changes in the laws in this area. It has been a problem every year that a large part of the funds for the conversion of energy use and energy production have not been used in the year they were released. This has resulted in large transfers. The government's proposal for a budget with reduced permissions, but increasing the mandate, was a way of correcting this. In the new age period, we have warned that during 2001 we will create an energy fund to transfer the proceeds there. In this way, we will clean up this problem and avoid having similar problems in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1053	I registered in the media some time ago that the Council of State had made a valuation of Statkraft, and I also see that the Council of State wants to contribute capital to the company. On the basis of this, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he is planning to file a case for the Storting on sub-privatisation and stock market listing of Statkraft. If the answer to this would be negative, I would ask the Council of State to explain the possible fundamental differences in the sub-privatisation of State power and the partial privatisation of Statoil, which the Government and the Workers' Party now support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1060	The government has no concrete plans to propose the reorganisation or change of ownership of State power. Nevertheless, it is important for all owners to know the size of a property. Therefore, it was desirable to get a valuation of Statkraft, so that one knew what value was in Statkraft. I intend to return to Stortinget with a proposal to add more capital to Statkraft, so that State power can be able to participate in the restructuring that is taking place in this sector. I do not see any reason today to propose the privatisation or partial privatisation of Statkraft. In my view, it is a company that works well within the framework of the conditions they have today, and we want to allow this company to develop further. But of course, it depends on the state that owns it and gives the company opportunities to do so, and we want to participate in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1067	Energy saving and new renewable energy sources were a focus area in the Energy Communication, DKK 5 billion over ten years was the center and the Workers' Party was the focus. Nevertheless, we are now well below this objective in the budget despite the increase guaranteed by the budgetary agreement. Here, the Council of State has a special responsibility to ensure the follow-up of the notification. I therefore welcome the positive signals of a mandatory green certification market. But we also have to follow up on the appropriations. With several conventional gas power plants on the Norwegian market, the profitability of such new renewable energy sources will be reduced, they will be more easily uncompetitive and, in addition, CO2-free gas power plants will also be less profitable. In the decision of 9 March, on which Akselsen was directed, as far as I understand, there is actually a blank authorisation for new gas power stations without any restrictions. On this basis, an unlimited number of gas power permits from the SFT may be granted with the instructions they have now received under the new state custom of the Workers' Party. At the same time, researchers who are behind the study on gas power and climate emissions say that there is a great deal of uncertainty about this actually contributes to climate improvement. Since the Minister of Oil and Energy has such a firm belief, as far as we then understand, that the construction of gas power plants in Norway reduces climate emissions, I have a question to the Council of State: how many gas power plants do we need to deal with climate problems: 3,10, 15 or more? I'm assuming that the Council of State is so well thought out in this area that it's easy for him to give a concrete number. I would like an answer to this question. It would be useful in the further debates on how the SFT should deal with the new state practice that is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1081	I would first like to agree with the questioner that it is important to follow up on what was the content of the energy message from in ours. I mean, it's also been done from the Government in all areas. It's a fact that in the last year we haven't been able to use up the funds that have been allocated in this area. That's why we suggested this time to increase the warrant instead, which is as good as the licenses are at keeping the activity up. Then switch to gas power plants. Now, in fact, I think some of us are going to be involved in reducing CO2 emissions in Europe and in the Nordic countries. We're a little confused, as far as I understand, if Norwegian gas power plants want to participate in it or not. I think that any research that we have managed to get into this area, says that if one builds gas power plants in Norway, it will force other energy and coal power plants in the northern European market. Therefore, I believe that the construction of gas power plants in Norway helps to reduce the accumulated emissions. So I actually think, although it would be positive for the environment to build gas power plants in Norway, that the economy of these projects implies that there will not be a stream of such gas power plants in Norway. I don't think it's going to be a problem that there will be 10–15 works or something in that direction. I believe that the proposals that are now being put forward are good proposals and that they will be positive. And then we hope that the economy becomes so that it's realistic to implement these expansions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1090	Governments have a price-priced and high level of involvement in relation to the activity of the socket and not least in the ring-fenced effects of the mainland industry. If we are to ensure a high level of activity and value creation in the future, we are dependent on a high level of research efforts and technology development. I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the strong cut that has been made at DEMO 2000. DEMO 2000 was launched in the summer of 1999, in cooperation between the authorities and industry, and there were clear commitments in relation to what the authorities were going to do, while industry committed itself to what they were going to do. So far, industry has fulfilled its obligations. Funds have now been allocated to 48 development projects and the supplier industry and oil companies have committed themselves to raising 450 million. kr. This will have major consequences in the future in terms of being able to extract more, to get more out of resources. We have now received a letter from the chairman of the DEMO 2000, where he writes that the cut will mean that DEMO 2000 cannot be continued, except for the projects already under way. Is the Council aware of the consequences of the severe cut in DEMO 2000? And secondly, does the Council of State also see that this could have negative consequences for future cooperation projects between the authorities and industry when it is the authorities that are not able to meet the commitments that have been made at times when there was a need to increase activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1099	When the government was preparing a new state budget, our biggest challenge was that there was an abnormally strong growth in the tied expenditure on the state budget, while there was a great pressure in the economy. One of our biggest tasks was therefore to reduce the risk of increased interest rates and new price increases. The ultimate objective of the budget was to prevent unstable business and most people by facilitating the control of interest rates. That's what overruled the target. We also managed to achieve that, and we've also been able to figure it out here in the hall. On this basis, there was a limit on the amount of money you could spend. So all the departments had to align themselves with that, including the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Nevertheless, there has been a growth in very many areas, including research, in the budget that has now been presented. DEMO 2000 has been a very successful system. One has got a lot of good projects out of that scheme, and I feel no need to say anything but that I could think of a bigger promise in this area for next year. However, I think that the most important thing for industry is to have a framework that means that they don't align themselves with a galloping interest rate and a wage growth out of control. This must also be seen in the context of a change in the general framework conditions for this industry in a positive direction, which has not least contributed to the increase in activity. I would also like to mention that the oil industry in Norway is now making more money than ever before, so that for its own part participation in research is much larger than it was just a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1106	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly states that one will continue to invest in the development of infrastructure in the case of natural gas, and in the use of natural gas. It allows me to solve another problem. The draft budget has a budget of 10 million. kr for the purpose of reducing the net cost to final users. This will apply to about 27 000 final users. Web rentals are payments for the transport of energy, and we have a paradox in this country by saying that out in the districts, where the energy is produced and the transport distance to the final user is the shortest, the rent is the highest. What kind of vision does the Council of State have on this problem? And will he do something to balance this cost with more than the 10 million in the budget proposal now?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1114	It is a government target that there will be the most possible equal costs associated with the use of the electricity grid in Norway. This was also a theme that was much debated and rewritten in the energy message settings, which we handled in ours. It was clear from Stortinget's side that a person would like to have a smoothing of the Internet tariffs tab in the country. It also wants the Government to participate. When that happens, this sum is going to be equal to 10 million. In fact, it helps to get rid of the tops, i.e. the most unparalleled price differences can be removed with this relatively small sum. If we had doubled it, it would still have little to say. Few new ones had been helped. The savings effect this would have had for the users was so small that we thought that the 10 million, which is a continuation of the budget last year, would actually be far enough on the way to achieve these goals. But we're going to go through this whole question of net tariffs, etc. in the future, and our goal is quite clear, that it should be equal access to the network and somewhat equal price for anyone who uses the network in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1121	SV is positive that the Council of State follows up the intentions of the Energy Communication when it comes to an energy directorate of its own. But I think it's important that a shift of activities to the environment where good processes can happen to the best for the environment. What makes it necessary to ask a question to the Council of State is this with geography. The government has said that this should be in Trondheim, but, as far as I understand the government party on the Stortinget, they have some doubts about the geographic location. Is it so to understand that the Energy Directorate will be added to Trondheim, as the Government first said? The second question is related to Statoil in relation to the climate problem with the Green State. SV asked the Minister for Environmental Protection that Statoil would grant its interest-free car loans and free parking spaces, thereby contributing to increased traffic and also to weaken the collective solutions in the area, in this case Forus at Stavanger. Why does the Council of State not use the power of governance to do something more concrete about the climate problems that some companies, in this case Statoil, are actually involved in increasing? Why does one not use the right that one has, and that one now wants to give up relative to privatisation? Last question. The agreement weakens the Oil Directorate, just like that, by 1 million. kr. The Directorate of Oil itself says that there is an increased need for oversight of safety in the North Sea. What kind of consequences have reconciled its weakening with the monitoring and control of the safety of the North Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1130	Let me first thank the representative Langeland for saying in an earlier speech today that he – unlike the government party – made himself a spokesman for and defender of the government. I must admit that I found the conflict that Langeland is trying to provoke is somewhat exaggerated. I can't see that any of the comments in the settings state that the Directorate-General of the Regions will not end up in Trondheim. The Right Party and the Labour Party say on a general basis is that it takes us when it comes to the Stortinget. What I mean is, I have to be very simple for a councillor to set up after. Then to Statoil. SV and the Workers' Party probably have a slightly different philosophy when it comes to how to use ownership of state companies. I actually think it would have been very unmanageable if it was such that one should use ownership to determine the price of the parking spaces outside Statoil and other state enterprises' workplaces. I agree that we have to try to stimulate collective use, but I think I have to deal with general schemes and not be linked to individual companies. For me, it's really not as important who owns a business when one discusses such questions. One should have the same attitudes towards private enterprises as one towards those owned by the State. When it comes to the Oil Directorate, they have gone through and reviewed a reorganization to meet the challenges in the future in a better way than has been the case. I am aware that this must have a completely different focus than it has been until now. That is why I would also like to welcome the fact that a colleague's committee takes the question seriously. Even if it's not my department that's responsible for it, I can promise that the government will do what it can to follow up the comment on an own big-time message that's about safety at sea. It's something that we all take very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1143	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1146	In the 2001 state budget, the Government is proposing a very necessary strengthening of Norwegian research. For environmental policy, it is essential that environmental research is given part of this reinforcement. We are facing major environmental problems, including: reduced biodiversity, increased concentration of greenhouse gases and the spread of health and environmental hazardous chemicals. These environmental problems, which are both national and international, require a decision-making basis that only new and research-based knowledge can provide. It is strange to hear from the Progress Party, which, in my view, at all times presents a misunderstanding of the environmental problems, including that. there are no climate problems. Such attitudes to the major national and global environmental problems should not be found in the second largest party in the country. Nor is the party of progress particularly positive about using public funds for research. Fortunately, however, they stand alone with this attitude, because if we are to have an opportunity to tackle the major environmental challenges, we need to do more research. There are some areas I would like to highlight as particularly important for environmental research in the coming years: the impact of climate change on Norwegian nature and the use and protection of biodiversity, as well as the problems of environmental poisons, predatory game and the conservation of our wild species. We have recently heard about the two-head Svalbard smoke, which is thought to be a consequence of the environmental poison PCB. Solutions to the problems in, among others: Arctic strips we just get with research. A large part of environmental research is carried out in institutes. Environmental research institutes are the main supplier of research-based knowledge by the authorities. There are numerous examples of how their efforts are crucial for good decisions in environmental policy. That is why I am concerned that the basic appropriations for these institutes have had a negative development over many years. The increase the Government is making for the institutions in 2001, I see as a positive start. The appropriations should be increased further in the coming years if the institutions are to deliver what the authorities need and at the same time have the international reputation that we and the country need. With regard to the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, NINA, I would like to remind you of their responsibility for research on predators. In the budget negotiations for 2000, 2 million were allocated. kr for predatory research through NINA. This is a project that will last for three years, and I expect the department to follow this up. The problem of predators is still high, although the summer season looks better than in previous years. The measures are starting to work, but the damage to you is still too great, especially in North Norway. I expect a review of the management of the Yews in North Norway, where quota sizes and licensing areas are assessed, so that local yew names and authorities can come to a common view. The government of Stoltenberg attaches great importance to ensuring our cultural treasures through both research and protection, as evidenced by a significant increase in the Riksantikvarn budget for 2001. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centres resulted in a further 6 million. kr to the Riksantikvaren, so that ship protection and industrial memories are increased. Cultural memory protection and outdoor life are important environmental areas for the Workers' Party. In debates and through the media, it would be thought that climate action is the only thing needed to tackle all environmental problems in Norway. But fortunately, we now have a government that also has other major environmental efforts going on, which creates both well-being and well-being, which everyone needs in a stressful everyday life. Such measures include, inter alia: outdoor life and well-preserved cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1167	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1170	I would like to comment on the chapter relating to a song. It is positive that management is now being moved out of NVE and that a stand-alone body is set up to strengthen its work and prioritise the use of alternative energy sources. I have not been fully clear about how the organisation will be. However, with regard to the debate and investigation that will come, I would like to stress that the regional environments must not be weakened but, on the contrary, developed and strengthened. In Agder, an energy park is now being built at the Dömsmoen in Grimstad municipality for which the High School in Agder is responsible. The energy park was officially opened by King Harald V on 19 June this year, and the Council of State Akselsen has also visited the park. So the King and the Government are familiar with the energy park in Grimstad. But is the Storting familiar with what's going on in this energy park? It is a three-year renewable energy education programme with international cooperation and competence programme for five doctoral students. Two of these work with silicon materials for solar cells, one with wind energy and one with renewable energy economies. The university also has a professorate with top expertise on hydrogen as an energy bearer. But the unique thing about the energy park is that one can connect and run research and development on different integrated systems. Research is carried out on solar cells, solar collectors, production of hydrocrystalline by electrolysis and production of electricity from combustion cells and vacuum pump technology with soil storage. Furthermore, monitoring is carried out via networks and other installations of the wind farm at Lindesnes and by bioenergy and wave power developed by Agder Energie AS. I would therefore ask that Grimstad be included as an actor and assigned national tasks in the further investment in renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1183	After the last article, I am tempted to wish the representative Halvorsen good luck in the nomination. When I draw a brief remark, it is because of the Council of State Akselsen's answer to my question about DEMO 2000 that I do not find entirely satisfactory. I have a great deal of understanding of the government's need to cope with public expenditure. But now, in fact, through the negotiations with the centre, there was room to increase the appropriations for the Axis budget by 55 million. kr. The funds have been used in anincreased project, and there are additional projects that the Committee has called into question the effectiveness of, the means that could give rise to the need for new public subsidies, while we know that funds invested in DEMO 2000 will help to increase value creation. I will repeat my two questions to the Council of State. The first question was whether the Council of State is aware that DEMO 2000 cannot be continued beyond the projects being launched. This is according to a letter from the Chairman of DEMO 2000. The second question concerns the implications for future cooperation between authorities and industry. That question is further raised by the Council of State's answer to my question, because he indicated that the petroleum industry is now doing better, and that they can therefore take a greater weight themselves. There was probably no premise with which the industry was familiar when they entered into cooperation with the authorities. And then, too, the supplier industry, which I know the government council is very concerned about, is an important partner in this cooperation, and for the supplier industry you can't talk about an as strong rise as what you have in the more petroleum-oriented business. As I said, is the Council of State aware that this means a tapering down of DEMO 2000, with the consequences it can have for future value creation? And what are the consequences for future cooperation between government and industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1198	Let me just first reject Mr Sanner's interpretation of the committee's comments. It's not like we're questioning the entire incremental effort. That would be contrary to what was part of the budgetary agreement, namely that this is a purpose that has a very high value and that we want to bet on more. On the other hand, what thiscommittee’s remark contains is a desire to include other types ofaction in the entry and to ensure an even better use of the funds. Let me first just underline it. So I need to make a final comment about the role of SFT. If I understood the Council correctly, the Ministry of the Environment would have to deal with specific issues, such as emissions permits, for example. in Forest, provide guidance on the professional treatment – if I do not remember correctly, it was the expression used – and for the assessment in relation to the pollution law. This is SFT's prerogative. With this answer, which also came twice, I can only understand that the government confirms that it actually overrides SFT's professional judgements. I can't understand this as anything but an undermining of SFT's professional integrity. The answers we have received in today's debate show, in my opinion, that a new state practice is about to be established with regard to the division of labour between departments and underlying directorates. We'll take note of that. And I can at least promise that we will come back to this question in future debates. I see it as relatively eye-catching what is about to happen, and it needs a fundamental debate, which we will come back to on the first occasion, on December 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1207	Let me first rejoice that the Council of State determines that the Energy Directorate will be in Trondheim. Even if Right and Working Party don't say so in the setting, it is set. So the issue was linked to the Green State, as the State Council Act made a question about parking spaces. Was the world as simple as the council tried to make it, it was easy. But it's not that simple. Green State simply aims to take environmental considerations through state action, i.e.: that a State enterprise should operate and show its way to other enterprises. My question to the Council of State Akselsen was: When you add up cheap car loans and tax exemptions for parking spaces, does it lead to a more environmentally friendly behaviour? The council itself knows that the answer to that is no. The Council of State knows that if one is to get what the Green State is saying, then one must add up to the collective solutions, not tear down the collective solutions, as Statoil adds. Then the question is really whether the Council of State wants to use the possibility of saying through the ownership he currently has, to assert that the intention in the Green State is being followed up. It does not do so by means of decisions taken by the board. It also determines the Council of State, Bjerke, in its reply. The intention of the Green State stands firm. My question to the Council of State Akselsen will be: are these not the intentions of Statoil?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1218	When it comes to the budgetary agreement that has been concluded, there are some repriorities and additions. I expect that they are primarily stimulated by the other party. But I think the additions made to the budget that I am dealing with are positive and will contribute positively. The money currently being added to an axis page should be useful in a positive and effective way. I don't think it's going to be a problem. Then there's a concrete question related to DEMO 2000. That's a set of 50 million. kr on next year's budget. So, of course, it's much smaller than those who are active in DEMO 2000, could want to. And of course, they try through different channels to influence the Storting and others to increase it's permissions. That's what I mean, I'm totally legitimate. But I still mean that 50 million. kr will depend on a successful life in the organisation DEMO 2000. The system works, and this, in my view, is not a controlled winding-up. That's right enough so that parts of the 50 million are tied up through previous activity. But 50 million. kr is, however, a sum which allows this organisation to continue to function. When it comes to co-operation between the government and this industry, I am by no means concerned about it. It is such that through an organisation we call Konkraft, and also through the leadership forum there, we have regular meetings between the rentals in the various oil companies, the rentals in the various supply industry companies and the service companies and the state councils. My impression is that there is a cooperation that is very constructive and that is positive. And in that way, you can also develop different views and different needs that this industry has, needs that I hope I can be there and go through the decisions we're going to make. So over to the question from Hallgeir Langeland. I think the initiatives taken through the Green State are important. Nevertheless, in my view, we must ask ourselves: What is the state? I feel that if you start using ownership in different state companies, including Statoil, it will be very special, especially when you come up with concrete questions relating to car loans and parking spaces. I have very much faith that one can run the state companies efficiently and in a desirable way by allowing the owner through the general meeting to interfere with that kind of question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1230	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1043]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1244	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1067]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1258	No one has asked for the word. [[Footing, see page 1068]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1272	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1068]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1286	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1069]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1294	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1364	In the course of the debate, 12 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 3, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2, 4 and 11, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 5, by Øyvind Waksdal on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposal No. 6, by Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposals No. 7-9, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 10, by Mr Voksdal on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 12, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and Left Øyvind Waksdal have asked for the floor for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1392	I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists support proposal No. 12, made by Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the centre parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1397	This is shown in the setting how the Right is related to most questions. I still want to ask the centre parties and the SV to make proposal no. 6 to a transmission proposal. Here is the question of a gas body to be located in the Haugsund area. It is a proposal that the Right will consider when the Government presents its case to spring. I do not think it is natural to consider that proposal now, so I would ask that it be converted into a transmission proposal. The same applies to proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party, to stock exchange listing and sub-privatisation of Statoil. It is well known that there will be a case about this before Christmas, and I think it would be unnecessary to vote down such a proposal now. However, if the Progress Party does not turn it into a transmission proposal, I would recommend the Right to vote in favour of the proposal. In the case of proposal No: 12, I would recommend the Right to vote against it. It appears here that the State pollution control ‘non-binding’ is to deal with emissions requests. It will in reality mean that the entire pollution law has to be repealed, because it places many constraints on the scope of the SFT. Of course, the right is voting against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1406	When it comes to the SFT proposal, SV will support it. When it comes to the appeal – or the inner prayer, which one may call it – from the Right on the location of a piece of the Energy Directorate, which the Government has proposed to Trondheim, and as the center and SV suggests moving to Haugesund, I was asked by the Christian People's Party to pass on this proposal. Whether or not this might lead to a better idea, of course we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1411	Is this the proposal that concerns Haugesund?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1414	That's it – proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1419	The President believes that experience shows that these transmission proposals have little meaning. In the budgetary debates we had in the previous few days, such proposals have been withdrawn because you know that you will come back to the matter. The President's question is, Can this proposal be drawn, or is it requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1424	I request that the proposal be sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1429	Several have not wanted the floor for an explanation of vote, and we are ready for voting. It is first voted on framework-independent minority proposals. As regards proposal No: 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, it is turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish its own national gas land-based centre in the Haugesund area.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There will be a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a pilot project on prevention and research-based work in predatory areas, based, inter alia, on the experience from similar problem areas in other countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1452	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate a partial privatisation and listing of Statoil.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1466	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7, 8 and 9, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the conversion of State Power SF into a limited liability company and the opening of private capital.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to wind up the scheme with LA 21 coordinators linked to the Municipalities’ Central Association established in 13 counties. The funds are made available to the voluntary organisations in line with the intentions of LA 21.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to separate the commercial activities of the Staten Kartverk as its own company. The new company is transformed into a limited liability company and sold.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1492	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 12, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the State pollution control system can handle all emissions requests on an independent and professional basis.’ The President has understood that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e1508	Proposal No. 5 the President will come back to. The setting's frame areas no. 12 and 13. To these framework areas there are alternative proposals from the Right and Socialist Left. We vote first on the proposals. 2 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e4661	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 3 from the right. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e7760	We're going to vote on the 12 and 13 framework areas, and we're going to deal with the 12 framework areas first.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e8964	It is first added to Roman numerals I, II, III, V and VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e8976	For the roll-out IV, an alternative proposal is available, No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e9010	There will then be a vote on the 13th framework area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e10977	In that case, there will still be a vote on the proposal for a decision that is independent of the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07.ana.ud850e11511	There is no record.
