ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e27	The representative Siri Frost Sterri, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Magnar Lussand, has taken the seat. The representative, Are Næss, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e40	On behalf of the representatives of John I. Alvheim, Marit Tingelstad, Odd Einar Dørum and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal concerning a new regulation implementing the law on abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e45	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e66	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Bjørn Tore Godal State Council Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen State Council Anne Kristin Sydnes The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Einar Steensnæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e85	I would like to ask the Minister for Development a question. While the war in Ethiopia and Eritrea was at its worst in April this year, the Ethiopian government went out with strong appeals for help to the drought victims. This was to be read in our country on Monday. According to the French newspaper Le Monde, parts of this drought disaster were cynically directed by the Ethiopian authorities, both to attract attention and to get emergency money. In our country yesterday, a reader could read that the Church's emergency aid had control of the situation and thought that it could attach trust to the information provided by the Ethiopian authorities. I would like to ask the Minister for Development what measures the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken to get an overview of the situation and the actual situation of this famine.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e98	We're also familiar with the claims made through the media. In the case of Norwegian emergency aid, these have been allocated on the basis of a general consensus among all emergency actors on the seriousness of the emergency — by many compared to the major crisis year 1984, when hundreds of thousands of people died. The Ministry itself had a delegation in Ethiopia at the end of April which assessed the emergency situation in parts of the Somalian region other than the Gode area and where the situation was found to be serious. The Ministry is not previously familiar with the concrete claims made in our country, but in terms of both logistics and political conditions, the Somalia region is undoubtedly the main challenge in implementing effective emergency aid operations in Ethiopia. Food aid has not been directly allocated to the Goode area, but among other things. The Church’s Emergency Aid has operated in other parts of the Somalia region, with the full confidence of the ministry. However, we will of course take a closer look at the claims made through the media and, of course, look seriously at them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e109	I thank you for your answer. Such statements as this are, of course, very negative, both for the people involved, for the country involved, and also for the help organisations that are trying to do a good job. Therefore, rapid clean-up is important in the actual conditions. I have, for my part, missed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' active information with corrective information. I would like to ask the Minister for Development whether she is satisfied with the information channels available to the Ministry, and whether she is also satisfied with being able to clean up and provide people who are concerned with these issues, necessary and timely information on the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e116	The Ministry has different channels for information on the conditions in this area. One important information channel is precisely the Norwegian voluntary organisations that operate in the area and we have full confidence in. We look forward to coming out with relevant information. I fully agree with the representative Steensnæs when he says that this kind of lookup is very negative, and that there is a great need to get out with as much actual information as possible. That's why we see it as absolutely necessary to get into these statements properly. Of course, you don't do that in an hour or two, we have to do that in a thorough way. We'll come out with information as soon as we possibly have something more to come with. But as I said, we have not before been familiar with these claims on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e121	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e124	My question is also addressed to the Minister for Assistance. Norwegian Public Aid receives about a year. One hundred million. kr in State aid. At the same time, Norwegian Folkehelp has published brochures to Norwegian schools, brochures containing a strong condemnation of the State of Israel. It is claimed that Israel is the only state in the world that has resorted to torture for official policy. Furthermore, it is claimed that Israel is engaged in racial policy and that the Palestinians are a lost people in the links of Israel. It is highlighted that women and children have died in pregnancy in cars stopped by Israeli checkpoints. The demise of Palestinian terrorists is hardly mentioned. The brochure is a condemnation of Israel that is suitable for teaching Norwegian children to hate the Jews. Does the Government consider it appropriate to use tax money in support of such activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e133	It is quite right that Norwegian People's Aid is an important organisation for Norwegian development aid and humanitarian aid, and it is an organisation that, in line with other Norwegian organisations, does a very important job in many areas. With regard to this special brochure on Israel, to which it refers, I have not read it myself. Of course, with regard to the debate itself on the responsibilities of the various parties to the conflict, we are concerned that there are more parties to this conflict and that information is given on the role and responsibilities of the different parties. It is a heavy responsibility on Israel in the situation we now have. Otherwise, I cannot give any evaluation of this brochure. We believe it is entirely appropriate to use Norwegian non-governmental organisations in the development work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e143	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the Minister for Development has difficulty commenting on a brochure she has not read. But the record I've come up with is actually correct, and I'm going to hand over the brochures afterwards. One should not be indifferent to a content that fires under Jewish hatred in Norway. That's exactly what these brochures do, and that's what the Government contributes to unconditionally supporting such activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e150	I would, of course, also like to stress that you should not stand behind or participate in anything that can contribute to neither Jewish hatred nor hatred against any other peoples, without having taken a position on what is in this brochure. With regard to the use of voluntary organisations, the Progress Party is also dependent on channelling assistance through non-governmental organisations, and that is also part of what we do in Norwegian development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e157	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e160	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. Once again there have been press releases that show that the situation in the defence is serious. This time it was the Newspaper, which last Thursday showed that it is probably now spent $1.2 billion on training F-16 pilots that we can't afford to use. The fact that the defense has come into a difficult situation is not strange. It was cut and cut and cut throughout the 1990s. And certainly the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre did not mean that a further 100 million were cut. by the decisions taken yesterday! My question is: is it really that Norway has trained pilots that we cannot afford to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e169	Let me first say in relation to what can easily become a one-sided black paint, that despite the cuts we've been through in recent years, Norway is roughly on the average of the European NATO countries, and so we don't have much to be ashamed of. But it is true that the defence is in crisis because there is a lack of consistency between tasks and resources, between operations and investments, and that the necessary conversion in the defence has gone far too slowly. It is not then just to collect more funds into an old-fashioned structure, which, according to both the Defence Commissioner and the Defence Policy Committee, needs to be adjusted. But of course, we should have an eye for the immediate crisis symptoms and aim to solve them, also in the case of the Air Force. I would like to remind you that, in the light of the 2000 regrouping proposal, which is now under discussion in the Defence Committee, and in the light of the new ageing, which will be presented in a short time, we will have a strengthening of the Air Force operating budget by 178 million. kr. It's a pretty significant amount, which I think makes us say that in a short time we're in a different and more positive situation than before. The Air Force Staff does not support the figures in the newspapers on a significant overproduction of pilots. This figure may need to be adjusted several times downwards in relation to the press releases. But it goes without saying that if we rely on the head of defense's input, namely 48 fighter aircraft ahead of us in the new, slim and more efficient Defense, we have a production that's too big and too big. How far it has to be adjusted down, we have to look at when the Storting has finished the treatment of the long-term proposition, and that happens after all to judge the coming spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e178	I would warn the Minister of Defence against believing that any problems in the defence can be solved by reorganization; it is also a problem of allocation. This reorganization issue has been a sleep cushion to consider completely concrete questions, and as far as I can see, it is now too many pilots – not because we have too many planes, but because we simply cannot afford to keep the planes in the air. And my question is simply: do we now have enough pilots to keep the planes properly in the air, and do we have enough money to ensure that these pilots have full operational status according to NATO rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e185	We have registered the aircraft to NATO's IRF force that we have notified NATO of. There's no news. They are operational in relation to reported targets. But then it's true that we've had an immediate problem, related to explosive fuel prices. So we're solving this by strengthening the Air Force budget by 178 million. kr, in a very short time. It is a sign that the Government is not sitting and waiting for the long-term proposition. We solve immediate problems with the reports we are receiving on an ongoing basis from the Air Force Inspector-General and from others. But then I would say, there's no reason to believe that we're solving the crises for some defense before we put in place a new structure that gives hope for a better future for the entire defense, including the Air Force.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e194	There will be follow-up questions – Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e197	The Minister of Defence is familiar with my past in Defense in the 1970s. Then we turned around in the pre-Christmas period and used up the budgets, that is, we were on the shooting path, and we were on the hard drive to use up the resources we had. It turns out that even now we are talking about the Christmas trade in Defense, that is, just before Christmas we find a product to buy to use up the budget. This is a monthly problem, and it appears every Christmas. What has the Minister of Defence done to prevent this this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e204	The President will point out that in the case of follow-up questions, they shall be concentrated on the theme contained in the main question. Right, we're approaching Christmas, sir. Langeland – but I leave Godal to answer to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e207	We have no other orders for the defense and the underlying bosses but to housekeeping rationally and distribute their purchases over the year in accordance with the Storting's agreed intentions. It is not the way to understand that we have too much money in the defense, so it is completely possible to dispose of it over the year. The fact that some underlying agencies may not be able to get a good deal of time by the end of the year, and spend money – hopefully sensible – cannot be completely ignored. But the answer is that there's not too much money in the defense, it's too little in relation to the adopted structure. And that's what all the defence ministers have been struggling with for quite a number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e213	Ingvalt Godal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e216	It's a bit of a paradox that a high oil price, which makes Norway rich, is going to paralyze our air defense. The Council of State said that we have sufficient operational capacity to meet our obligations towards NATO. But what about our duties to Norway? What about those pilots who have expensive machines and who have a very expensive education behind them? Can the Council of States guarantee that all of them will have sufficient flight time, both in view of the regular flight and in view of what is needed to make use of the Mid-Life Update and air-ground capacity, which will now be introduced? Will they have enough flight time so that all our pilots and all our planes are fully operational and ready to fight?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e223	Unfortunately, the defence has no direct shares in the EEA or in the state’s capacity in the manufacturing sector, and it is not possible to obtain it, even with a very willing finance minister. There's a contradiction of principle towards such a solution. But we've managed to solve this on an immediate basis, by strengthening the Department of Defence and Air Force operating budget for the Air Force by 178 million. kr. I think the landscape now looks significantly different – even if you sit and read newspapers a few weeks later, this situation is getting fundamentally improved. When it comes to the question of whether we have enough planes for all the pilots now, the answer is no. The defence operating budgets are generally not in such a condition that we have the opportunity to make maximum use of the machinery we have. It's not just the Air Force. This applies in the Air Force, it also applies in the Army and in the National Defense for the rest, and in the Maritime Defense. There are scarce operating budgets everywhere, and we have scarce operating budgets because we have a defence in complete imbalance. That's why we have a crisis in Defense, and we can only solve it through a collective grip. That's what we're going to propose in the long term proposition of coming spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e230	Per Ove Wide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e233	I have to follow up on what has been said here before. The imbalance mentioned by the Minister of Defence is well created by the Workers' Party over a long period of post-war war, so it must face the Minister of Defence himself. As far as air defence is concerned, I am not so sure that the state is as good as that minister says. I have received other signals that indicate that it is not. When it comes to recruitment issues in general in the Defence Department, I also want to point out and would like to hear from the Council of State about the state of Maritime Defence. Now we're going into a new period, considering new frigates. We're going to man these frigates -- this is right in the short term, but we have to work on schedule. What does the recruitment question look like in terms of maritime defence and the great potential we need of crews for, among other things. these boats and other boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e244	The President is, in principle, a member of repetition exercises, but in the matter of repeating what was said to the representative of Langeland, the President considers that this also applies in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e247	Let me just first say, to the general, that there's scarcity and crisis in defense. But I remind you again of what I said in answer to previous questions: we've been lying about the average of European NATO countries for years now, so it's not that bad. We therefore have unresolved problems because the defence has missed a sufficiently strong political, military and strategic direction in many areas. It is far too far from politically agreed objectives for the pursuit of those objectives. It's something other than just discussing economics, although it's also important. All these questions are raised in full terms in relation to the long-term proposition submitted to the Storting as early as possible in February. With regard to the recruitment situation in general, both in the Maritime Defense and other weapons, we have no answer to what we need in full until we have adopted a future structure from a to. But the frigates are, as the majority of the Storting have perceived it, structurally dependent. Of course, we have a responsibility that through the MTBs and other maritime defence activities we have sufficient recruitment to the frigates when the first one comes to the sea – and then the other four follow continuously. It's a considerable responsibility for the Maritime Defense and the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e254	Let's move on to the next main question
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e257	My main question, too, goes to the Minister of Defence. The head of defense presented the defence study 2000, which will lead in the next round to a document from the Government that is expected to come over Christmas. I'm not going to ask about content, I'm going to ask about process. There is no doubt that the work presented by the head of defence in our day has caused great unrest in many communities, creating uncertainty and insecurity among many defence personnel. In the autumn, take-off incentives have been launched in advance of political decisions, almost in accordance with the principle of the first until the mill receives take-off incentives — to put it a little to the fore. It leads to a flight of competences in parts of the defence. The whole proposal for the head of defence is based on an economic justification: lack of appropriations. At the same time, cost calculations are made at this point in time. In other words, half a year after the defence study in 2000 was presented, the economic basis for restructuring is being used. Is the Minister for Defence satisfied with the process that has taken place and the way in which the conclusions have been drawn?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e268	Yeah, I'm pretty happy with that. The starting point is that, in the long-term programmes early in the 1990s, we agreed with Storting that the defence should be slimmed down to the equivalent of 6,400 annual works. We managed to slim down with about 2,000 annual works. Looking at the average of the recommendations made by the Defence Chief and by the Defence Policy Committee now, where the Centre Party has been brilliantly represented, the recommendation is a slimming in the range of 4,000 to 6,000. So we're far away from these slim measures. The experience suggests that this slimming goes very slowly. This is the background for the government, through the Royal Resolution in the summer, to take the necessary steps to get this process going. Regardless of the choice of structure, at least in relation to what has been discussed both in the Defence Policy Survey and in the Defence Study, there is a significant need for slimming. And to get it started and create a better operating situation for the aircraft, for the Marine Defense and for the Army, we have to start now. We've taken that chance -- and the fact that we now have over 1,000 applications in it, of which 700 are accepted, to say it roughly, is a sign that it's now getting faster. But then I'll add that the head of defense and the deputy executives have an independent responsibility that critical competence doesn't go away. It is not that everyone who applies is entitled to a yes. No one is entitled to take-off stimulation. This means that the head of defence must have an eye on the fact that one does not go too far down in relation to critical competence, and also in relation to what is likely from the very central elements of the future defence structure. I believe this is under control. The Chief of Defense and his people keep me up-to-date on it all the time. It doesn't look black, although I know there are gaps already somewhere in the country. We probably have to live with that, but then we have to have people elsewhere who can fill up those structures. As I said, critical competence cannot be erased or run too far down.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e277	I would like to thank you for the answer, which I think is satisfactory with regard to what is going on in terms of take-off incentives, where it has been said by the Minister of Defence that we need to assess what skills we need. With regard to the restructuring proposals and proposals for closure of individual units in the Defence Study 2000, there is also an economic justification. This is justified by the lack of funds allocated to the defence in total and by the need for restructuring. I think we agree that there is a need for restructuring. But once an economic rationale is used to shut down units, the economic foundation should be well-founded. Then you should have made real calculations that it really would pay off. That is why I think it is alarming that we first propose closure, and then we sit down afterwards and calculate whether the economic calculations are in line with the proposal that has already been made – that is, in retrospect because the proposal has been promoted. It is not reliable, and I know that this goes on both loyalty and motivation to the employees. Will the Minister for Defence make sure that all financial conditions will be on the table when the decision is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e287	Yes, that work is very much in progress, in accordance with the intentions. We are now in a quality review of all possible alternatives, at least on the main issues, including the question Andøya Airstation/Bodø Main Airstation – if that's what the representative is thinking about, and that might be – but also other alternatives. We're going through this very carefully. It can be said very well about the Defense Study, at least I do. But it's not staggered by economic impact calculations, and it's the ministry's job to take care of before a proposition is presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e294	There will be follow-up questions – Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e297	The defense study in 2000 was presented because the head of defense is asked to tell us what kind of defense we get for NOK 25 billion. It involves the closure of the Defence in North Norway in practice. Retan is shut down, Andøya air station is shut down, the Coast Guard base is to be moved to Ramsund – everything has to be moved southwards. It'll take 100 million. kr from the Air Force to build a shooting range in the East, while we have a huge shooting range, Blue Tind and Mauken, in North Norway. Is it reasonable use of money? I must also be allowed to ask: isn't it time to ask the Chief of Defense to present a study of what kind of defense it is we need in Norway from the point of view of the Chief of Defense, and not what we get with the framework he's going to work out from?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e306	None of the closure proposals that the representative Bastes has now pointed to have been adopted. I think it's important to be aware of that. The fact that the head of defence is in favour of something doesn't mean that it's passed. This will now be dealt with in the Department, dealt with in the Government, promoted by the Stortinget, and it is not even certain that the Government will follow the Defence Manager's recommendations on all points, of course. So there's nothing abnormal in that situation. The only thing I've said about this so far is: A reorganization of the defense that is about the magnitude of the defense chief and the Defence Policy selection is about – and they're strangely in agreement with these points – is probably what we have to do, but where the layoffs, installations, airstations, bases are going to be, is another question within the framework of a new, slimmer and better structure. I have no reason to believe that the government is making any suggestion to the Storting that is North Norway hostile. On the contrary, it's going to be very well balanced, and the defense of North Norway is of course absolutely central in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e314	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e317	The main issue was the process of the Defence Study and also the Defence Policy Selection. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State, when the matter comes to the Grand Council, will balance what we are going to do in the world, and the international commitment we have to ensure regional predictability in the north, in such a way that we also have a serious land defence in North Norway and not just an automatic telephone answering machine and frigates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e324	This is of course absolutely central to us. We must have a proposal that is balanced against national objectives, allied commitments, UN commitments. It's been like this for many years, and there's nothing new. The fact that next year, if the Storting adopts the government's budget proposal, we spend $2 billion out and 25 billion at home, is no danger signal. It is not wrong in relation to Europe or the world. There is no bad mixing ratio. And I remember, also for those who are occupied with North Norway, that two world wars started in Europe. We thought we'd get through both of them harmless if we put the mouse still and had others set up on the continent – we got deeply involved in both world wars. And if we're going to call on allies or other reinforcements in the north and in North Norway, we also have to take our share of the job out. Here's the good relationship between what we do at home and what we do out there. But, of course, we should not underestimate any of the colossal tasks associated with resource monitoring and sovereignty in the major Norwegian region.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e329	Gunnar Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e332	It is true that 5,000 to 6,000 men may have to leave the defence, and one of the main questions was about this with take-off incentives, which I believe are sensible and necessary. But my question is, can it also be necessary to grant some funds to maintain the competence of the Defense, so that we don't get into some kind of double imbalance?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e339	The problem is clear enough. We've initially decided that we didn't intend to pay a lot to keep someone, and then pay a lot to get rid of a lot of others. The sum of that could be pretty big. But, of course, we need to have a personnel policy in the Defence Department, which is the starting point of our being so attractive in the future that we retain both critical competence and military and civil personnel that we need. It's part of the defense's personnel policy. But there are no special bonuses to continue on top of the bonuses to stop, to say it like that. On the other hand, we believe that a better, slimmer and more effective defence in the future will mean that we have the defence as a far more attractive job than continuing to live with crisis, process, investigation into investigation – it never ends. Now we gather all the eggs into one basket, take a new combined grip and create security for both the defence employees and for the communities concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e344	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e348	I want to address the economic problems of the defense and the total resource use. I was in a meeting with the Minister of Defense last Friday, when, among other things, The Eastern Region is a hot topic. And I think it's going to be very prestigious when you can't also take that field and that project into an overall assessment now and see if it shouldn't be taken out, for the benefit of many other major tasks that the defense has. We know that there is a field between 15 and 20 miles away from Rena clay that can be used, if you can talk in Sweden and Norway and have a dialogue for a use of the field of fire in Älvdalen instead of Regionfelt Eastland. It's a very big interference in natural resources, the biggest thing in Norway's history, in addition to the use of resources in Defence, and I'm once again going to ask the Minister of Defense to look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e355	I had the pleasure of saying to the representative at the same meeting at Rena a few days ago, otherwise a very good meeting, that we would like to vote in the Grand Duchy of the Region Field Eastern every day for the rest of the session, if the Defence Committee so wishes. I think the result will be the same. We are done with that debate. We need the Eastern Region as part of a slimmer, more efficient and better defence. If we're going to slim the defense, the practice possibilities must be there in two large regional fields, which aren't just shooting fields in a narrow sense, where you stand somewhere and shoot at something else, but where you can coexist over quite large areas. Here the defense has fixed without doubt that we need two such fields, one in the north and one in the south. It is inappropriate to carry crews and heavy equipment over long distances, and then we need the two fields. This is established, and there is no reassessment either professionally or politically by the Government in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e360	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e363	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question. Today’s Dagbladet says that Norway is the worst in terms of study funding. It says that Norway has the lowest grant rate in the Nordic countries, and it says that Norway has the lowest rate of interest in the Nordic countries. It is quite shameful that this country, which has so much money, should come out like this. It is also shameful in a country that wants to invest in knowledge and skills, where the study funding is the second best instrument to ensure that everyone is able to get a good education. My question to the Minister of Finance, who runs our wallet, is this: Is this a priority task for the Government? Will the Government accept that we have a study funding that has, through this period, fallen dramatically after all our Nordic neighbours, and which means that we get a crooked recruitment to higher education, which I would also assume from the position of the Minister of Finance is a very unfortunate development? The question is: will he give priority to this, and, in that case, will it mean that in the revised national budget he will return to an improvement in the funding of studies?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e372	The government prioritises study funding in the sense that we believe we have a fairly good system. We always have to review it and assess whether we can do better, and we are open to looking at the evaluations available. The government has no immediate plans for changes. Had we had it, we would, of course, have put it under the budget that the Storting is dealing with in these days, and that is why the Government is not providing a budget, and that means doing something else in the revised national budget. In that case, it would have been within the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e377	What's coming out of this study, which is really known, is that we have half of our Nordic neighbours' scholarship share, and we have an interest rate that is twice as high as our Nordic neighbours have. This means that student funding is an instrument that doesn't work, because it means that the students then work next door. This means that you get longer courses of study for the students. So you don't get the students out of the race, which has been a priority task for former labor party governments, especially Gudmund Hernes was concerned about having concentrated studies and thus avoiding students taking up unnecessary space in the study system. Poor student funding promotes inefficiencies, and of course it also promotes financial difficulties for the students in the system. That is why it is quite possible to look at this from several points of view, and I understand very well that the Minister of Finance will not here say what he will come back to in the revised national budget. But my question is more general: does that mean that this is a priority task, and that you can expect actual improvements? I think most people will agree that it is shameful that this rich country does not have a study funding that matches Sweden, Finland or even Denmark. We are the worst in the Nordic region in such an important field for Norway. I suppose the Minister of Finance will agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e384	As I said in my first answer, it's so that the government prioritizes education and study funding. We have gradually had improvements in the study funding offer. With regard to the level of interest rates, we must regrettably note that we have a certain increase in interest rates in relation to some other countries in Europe. The government is concerned that we should not increase the pressure on interest rates, and that is an important reason for the main priorities of the budget that we have presented. On the issue of streamlining the study process, including looking at the question of funding for studies, we will be allowed to come back to it. But, as I said, the government had proposals prepared to implement, and of course we would have put them in the budget that is now being discussed. We haven't.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e391	There will be follow-up questions – Rolf Rikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e394	I understand that the Council of State is defending the state budget. But the study funding consists of three parts, first of all it's the interest rate, it's the scholarship rate and it's the cost standard, which is the total amount that students get to live on for ten months. And Norway is at the bottom of all three areas. We're the worst on interest rates – we have the highest interest rates – we're the worst on scholarship rates, and we have the lowest cost standard, that is, the amount they're going to live on. Then my question is to the Council of State, although he can't say so much about the revised national budget: does the Council of State worry that we have a system of studies that is so bad, and that also means that students are likely to spend more time, and that we are not able to get as many full-time students as we really want?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e401	I'm worried that we spend too much time on the studies, and that you don't have as many full-time students as the representative refers to. Therefore, I believe that there is reason to go through thoroughly and look at how we can make the whole education system as effective as possible in getting the best possible access to knowledge, and in this respect, of course, study funding must also be assessed. But there are no concrete proposals from the Government at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e406	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e410	I noticed that the Minister of Finance stressed that this government prioritises education. Then you have to think with horror about how things stand with the purposes that are not prioritized by this government. In addition to what has been raised as a question of student funding, the State budget has proposed to cut down on the fee grant scheme for Norwegian students studying abroad, quite dramatically. It has also been proposed to remove the aid scheme applicable to Norwegian students in schools abroad, in order to provide complementary education in Norwegian and Norwegian social conditions. Is this a priority for education?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e417	Yes, it's not that even if you give priority to education, you say yes to absolutely everything you can spend money on within an area. And then, of course, the fee grant scheme also needs to be assessed in relation to its proper functioning in relation to the objectives it is set to meet. The government has found it reasonable to propose an adjustment to the number of training courses that may fall under the scheme. I assume that there will be ample opportunity to come back to this in connection with the budget debate of the Committee on Churches, Education, and Research. Now it is also the case that an adjustment has been made to the Government's proposal in the budgetary settlement concluded between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, and that will be the foundation of the Government's further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e424	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e427	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Today, the entire Norwegian oil wealth is saved in foreign money placements. When you save, it's because you want an interest or a return on money, so that they can also benefit future generations. But there are alternative ways to save too, one is, among other things. making real investments. And in Norway, there are many ways to save money. So we could have invested money in road construction, we could have invested money in research, we could have invested money in ICT equipment in schools, to mention something that would've given us a little bit of time back in a few years. Nevertheless, the Government insists that at any price this money should be salted down into fund placements abroad rather than being invested in areas in Norway that we know will give us returns again in the future. Why doesn't the government even want to assess this way of saving money?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e436	The government is making a continuous expansion of society through proposals for the development of different welfare objectives. I have found that it is not always the case that the Progress Party agrees with that kind of effort in relation to the welfare community, but leave it in this context. The Petroleum Fund is established for various reasons. One of them is that there should be a difference between the time you earn the money and the time you use it. It is related to the fact that if the money from the petroleum sector in the Norwegian economy had been used, it would have led, first of all, to an approximate collapse in the competitive sector, and, second, to a much higher level of interest rate than we now have. Also, in budgetary terms, the proposals of the Progress Party on increasing the use of oil money would have the natural consequence that we would have a higher level of interest rate than that resulting from the Government's arrangements. The second important element is that the petroleum fund is invested abroad, also due to its function as a buffer in relation to possible shocks in terms of changes in the petroleum price. If we had invested in Norway and should have triggered e.g. positions in Norwegian companies in order to meet an oil price shock, the shock would have doubled. A third important element is that the possibility of using petroleum money at a later stage than they do is also related to the fact that we then have the opportunity to distribute the well-being over several generations and meet among others. the pension liabilities we have in time. I have registered that the Progress Party has, at an earlier stage, submitted proposals for constitutional fastening in relation to the use of the petroleum sector. I record that you do not have a fully limited view of the issue of disposal of the money today. I'll take it for information. Last but not least: what is a priority, what is thought to be most important in the budget, is also allocated to the budget; it does not need to be allocated in addition to being able to implement it. What does not fit in the budget is per year. define the lower priority than the existing one.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e451	This is wrong with all due respect. It is not that the Government really prioritises the important areas of expansion. This year — in the budget adopted last year — a net cut in transport investment was adopted. School students today sit and share PCs. Does the Government believe that investing in new ICT equipment in school will lead to increased interest rates in Norway? Does the Government believe that investing in an efficient road network, which means, in reality, improving the efficiency of the economy and reducing the costs of a number of businesses around the district of Norway, is an interest rate driver, when we also know that there is free capacity in the civil engineering sector that is ready to build roads just next year for NOK 2-3 billion? I don't understand why the government has such a strong reluctance to let this money be invested in Norway too, so that they can not only benefit this generation, but actually the coming ones, by investing in streamlining our own economy, and making the wise minds even wiser.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e458	I have registered that the Progress Party has also proposed that we invest in roads in Sweden. At least something goes beyond what the government might suggest. But let me stress that it is not that investment in the transport sector or in the education sector itself leads to a price pressure, if you make sure that there is room for that kind of investment. However, if that type of investment were to be added to everything else in the economy and to over-measures in a situation where there is a shortage of labour in many sectors, it would lead to a price and cost pressure. I record that the Progress Party has sought advice from some professors of economics, and I record that the answer is quite clear, among other things. by Professor Noreng. This is not a matter of intervention, he says to the newspaper for a short time. He clearly states that the proposal presented by the Advance Party leads to an increase in the pressure. We have a shortage of labour, and it must lead to an increase in immigration if we are to meet such challenges. But above all, the economic policy of the Progress Party would lead to a strong increase in interest rates for young people with large mortgages. It's a consequence that's a backside of the medal the Progress Party presents, and that the Government strongly advises against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e467	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e470	I would like to ask a follow-up question, to Minister of Aid Sydnes. It's the way the oil fund goes on the most efficient stock exchanges around the world. This means that many countries are in the shadow, not least the 48 poorest countries. If there is a point, as the Minister of Finance always stresses, that this money cannot be used in Norway – at least it must be used with caution in Norway – it would not be a very good idea to take part in the oil wealth and invest commercially in the poorest countries in order to generate economic development, to generate growth, to get a solidarity fund – not because it is to be aid money, but a supplement to aid money – that invested in, for example, Namibia or Angola under commercial conditions for growth, i.e. trade not AIDS? This money will be 100 pst. is used beyond Norway’s borders, and will contribute to prosperity and growth, which will be a good complement to our usual aid policy. My challenge to the Minister for Aid is: Is this not a very good idea? Isn't this an idea the government should bring? In addition, investment in Namibia may actually yield returns. And if it doesn't yield the same amount of returns in the short term, it returns in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e479	With regard to the use of the oil fund, there are certain guidelines on the use of the oil fund and there are guidelines to which the Stortinget has agreed. As for the more general question of how we use our wealth, the Government is very concerned that we need to spend more of our wealth on those who need the most, namely poor people in poor countries. That is why we have proposed to increase the development budget by SEK 1.5 billion, which is also an increase of 14 pst. in relation to the budget of the year. With regard to investment and industrial development in poor countries, I fully agree with Mr Djupedal that we need to make more and more sure that we contribute to economic development in the poorest countries as well. Next year, the United Nations will have a large conference on the least developed countries, and by the end of January, we will have our own preparatory conference on this, which will focus on how we, together with other countries, can contribute to increasing nutrient development in these countries. I would also like to point out that we have a fund called Norfund, which, in relation to the proposals that Mr Djupedal is making, essentially serves that very purpose, investment in the south.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e490	Kenneth Svendsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e494	It is a follow-up question to the Minister of Finance. Every enterprise and individual with respect for themselves takes care of their assets and maintains them. Ordinary people maintain their homes. They replace wood, they paint – they maintain and take care of the wealth. Business does the same thing. They maintain by replacing and repairing machinery parks and commercial buildings. Norway also has a wealth, a wealth in school buildings, hospitals, roads, etc. Why is this property not maintained? The road network in Norway is getting worse and worse. The government itself describes it this way: it is under-financing the road network of 600 million. kr annually only for the maintenance – it has accumulated a lag of 8.2 billion kroner. Why does the Government not want to maintain this road wealth – something that would benefit most people and business alike? It must be better to do this than to build up money on a book abroad? Otherwise, we have had two interest increases after the Workers' Party took over power.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e505	The President believes that the financial debate has just taken place over two days, but nevertheless – Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e508	Of course, it makes sense to maintain the resources that are. There will always be an assessment of how much to put in, for example: in the case of road maintenance. On the issue of school construction, I agree that there is a challenge in many municipalities. It's basically a task for each municipality. The government has made this challenge easier by proposing a significant strengthening of the local economy. I note that the same attention has not been given by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e515	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e518	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question. It's a formidable increase in the payments for sick pay. It reduces the freedom of action in public budgets and goes beyond the objectives of which not least many weak groups would have benefited. And it's a significant burden on business. The left does not think that the answer is the hard cut that the right parties add up to, which has a strong unsocial profile. But the answer is not what the Workers' Party has so far had, namely no adjustment to today's system. The left has undergone a moderate change in the health insurance scheme, including: so that chronic sick and parents in the context of a disease in children are excluded. Now there's a moderate adjustment from the Sandman selection, which is exactly what the Left has thought, which does not hit any groups hard. Does the Council agree that the position of the Sandman Committee is a good starting point for a broad compromise in the revision of the sickness pay scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e529	It is true that there is a significant increase in sick leave. We believed in the recent budget that growth from 2000 to 2001 would be 12 p.m. Now new numbers indicate that the growth is going to be 13 pst. This has a lot of complications. One is, of course, the problem that we need to have an overview of the reasons why sick leave is increasing, and also to see if we can organize the work so that those who have the opportunity, and want it, can be at work, even if they have disease problems. The second is that it has a cost side, on which the representative Kvassheim was also involved. And last but not least, increasing sick leave means that we have reduced labour supply in a situation where labour supply is a significant restriction in the Norwegian economy. The government has received settings from the Sandman Committee. It's been sent to the hearing. The government is set to discuss with the parties the further follow-up to it. The Government will come back to the Storting with an assessment of the follow-up after the consultation round has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e538	I share the basic attitude of the Minister of Finance, we still need to have a very good health pay system in Norway. And it's vital that one looks at other elements that affect sick leave. However, there is no reason to suggest that there must be some action that will also review the scheme, and that will reduce costs, because here there are important elements to help reduce sick leave without severely affecting any group. What I want to challenge the Minister of Finance to is to express certain basic attitudes. The question is: is there a need for a revision of the current system? And does the Minister of Finance agree that the kind of balanced thinking that the Left has stood for, and that the Sandman Committee follows up, without anyone being hit hard, is what can be the basis for a revision of today's system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e545	Let me first stress that it is important that we dampen the growth of sick leave. I referred to reasons for this. I also showed that the Government has an commitment to what has been expressed, among other things. in the budget documents, where we have explained this issue carefully. With regard to the Sandman Committee's setting, I would like to limit myself to saying at this point that we have sent it to the hearing. The government's assessment of the proposals in the Sandman Committee will come back to us at a later stage. However, I will not fail to express the satisfaction of the fact that, on the left hand side, both from the representative Kvassheim now and also in the financial debate, it is very strongly underlined that it is important to have a health pay system that involves people feeling a security of disease. This is a proposal, for example: from the Progress Party, in the context of the budget, which would mean that a female industrial worker with average income would lose almost NOK 46 000 in a year as a result of the changes proposed by the Progress Party – in the case of the Right’s proposal about half. This would be dramatic changes in relation to today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e554	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e557	Last night, the Labour Party and the Centre Party adopted the largest tax increases in the memory of men. In particular, jobs and the economy are most affected – despite the fact that in the revised national budget the Minister of Finance wrote the following: ‘The level of taxation in Norway is already high compared to other countries.’ He also wrote: ‘Like that, the increasing internationalisation makes it difficult for Norway to have significantly higher taxes on capital and labour income than our neighbouring countries.’ My question to the Minister of Finance is simple: Does he still acknowledge what he wrote in ours about the high level of taxation in Norway compared to other countries? And how will the Minister of Finance describe the level now, following the massive tax increases in the 2001 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e570	I acknowledge what we wrote in the revised national budget, and I acknowledge what we wrote in the budget. I fundamentally disagree with the presentation by the representative. The budget we have presented, and the proposals that may be on the tax side, do not affect most people. On the contrary, in the case of taxes on labour, it is reduced by around DKK 1 billion as a result of the government's budget line. Fees are reduced in important areas, including: that relates to the charge on petrol and diesel. As a result of the budgetary agreement, a reduced VAT on food is also implemented. But the whole main idea is that if we are to implement the common good proposed by the Government – a strong commitment to health, to education, to care for the elderly – without getting into a situation of increased pressure on interest rates, we need to reduce the pressure in the private part of the economy. We have done so by proposing a set of measures, including: short-term economic activity tax in relation to business. Other proposals have been made instead as a result of the treatment in Stortinget, but the point of these measures is to avoid most people getting new letters from the bank about interest rate increases. The government is very concerned that we should be able to avoid such a situation. I also believe that the budget we have submitted is the best overall for Norwegian business. By providing a budget where we dampen the pressure in the private part of the economy to allow for the absolutely necessary investment in the common good, we avoid getting a new price and cost spiral that we could have had we not provided such a real economic space for the investment we have on the common good. The government’s budget line makes some increase in costs due to taxes and taxes — that is correct — but avoids the price and interest rate effect that would otherwise have been achieved if the government had not taken these necessary steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e582	If I understand the Minister of Finance correctly, it is right to increase taxes and charges by DKK 12 billion for businesses and for most people, because the Government will not do anything about what is the main challenge in the Norwegian economy, namely to increase access to labour and to convert the public sector, to make it more effective. If you'd done it instead, most people would have gotten away with this. If I also understand the Minister of Finance right, nobody is hit by $12 billion in taxes and tax increases, it's just levied. The point is you try to sign it. Housing tax increases by 15 p.m., electricity tax increases, business now has a tax model that is significantly lower than the starting point in 1992. I also noticed that the Minister of Finance said that he is still standing by his opinions in the revised national budget, that we have a high level of taxation and charges compared to other countries. And what's his answer to that? That we're going to increase it further. Does the Minister of Finance not understand that when the countries around us are lowering taxes and taxes, can we no longer develop into a different tax policy country without having a significant impact on business start-ups in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e591	Firstly, if we were to have a tax and tax level in line with that, for example. are in Sweden, we had to increase the level of taxes and charges in Norway in the order of 50 to 100 billion kroner. It shows that this debate on the level of taxation in Norway is seriously exaggerated. But that's not the main point. The main point is that we are facing elections that are very clearly revealed through the financial debate that took place in this room yesterday and the other day. And what is the choice? Well, the Labour Party says we should strengthen the common good by expanding health care, care for the elderly and education. We're going to have a fairer distribution, and we're going to avoid an increase in the pressure on interest rates. It makes it necessary to take some action in relation to curbing the pressure in the private sector. So what's the Right Option? Well, the right says we're sending the bill to sick people. If a person has cancer and is ill for one year, he gets a cut in his salary of between NOK 20 000 and NOK 25 000 as a result of the Right proposal. Further, the Right Cuts, as a result of their scheme, significantly compared to the measures in District Norway, they cut in relation to aid and in relation to the poorest part of the population in the world. That's the option we're facing. And the jam will one who is sick for one year, notice an income loss of between 20,000 and 25 000 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e600	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e603	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence a question. There is great concern in the Defense because of the very extensive reorganisation that has now been outlined and that several have been involved. As you know, the conclusions of both the Defence Policy Selection and the 2000 Defence Study from the Defence Manager will lead to major changes. 4000-6000 officers' posts and several departments are proposed for closure. This has meant that almost everyone now feels insecure. We get enquiries almost every week from departments all over the country where you feel threatened by closure. And I don't think the state council's insurance here earlier that it's not certain that the government will follow the defense chief's proposal, is suitable to calm down. It's urgent to clarify, and we're now waiting with tension on the Government's long-term proposition. The Council of State has said in the past that it will be presented in February next year. It is absolutely necessary to have the document so early in order for the Storting to be able to deal with it in the spring session. Can the Council guarantee that the timetable will be maintained and that it will be presented in February, as planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e612	Yes, as far as it stands in my power, I can guarantee it. There's nothing to suggest that the schedule doesn't last. I fully understand that there is concern in the defence, but it is therefore not possible for the Minister of Defence or the Government to pick out individual elements now and say that it will be peaceful, we shall do something about it, it will be reorganized. This needs to be discussed in an overall context and presented to the Stortinget. Even though the turmoil is great, I think the turmoil would be even greater if we didn't now take an overall approach that the Stortinge can discuss from A to Å, so that we get a decision-making directory that is different and much more concrete than what we've served ourselves through the four-yearly processing of the long-term messages. So the grip we're going to do is we're going to put forward a whole package. I meet a lot of both military and civil employees in the Defense who realize that this is a political process, they are subject to political treatment, and consequently they are insecure. But it's a new and better future you can imagine, rather than living with plague on plague, change on change, crisis on crisis, which we have now had in Defense for far too many years. So I think the representative and I might agree to say that after this you know at least what you have to stick to. And it's better for the defense and for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e621	The spring session is, as you know, the last session of this magnificence, and it is vital that this expansion should be addressed by the major reorganisation of the defence. In the overview of issues of the Government, which we receive regularly, it does not appear in February 2001. It says something more fluid in the spring of 2001. That is why I would like to have a clarification from the Council of State, an assurance that it is in February 2001 that we will receive this proposition. After all, we are going to carry out consultations and inspections and have a thorough examination of the proposals. So I would like a guarantee from the Council of State that it will come in February.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e626	I refer to my answer. It's February. I'm fully aware of getting this proposition to Stortinget far into the spring, there's no room for proper treatment in Stortinget. Then we added the big egg, to say it like this. Then we've really done something we shouldn't. We are in close contact with all the relevant authorities to get this done. It places great demands on employees’ organisations, which are to be consulted, to cooperate with other departments, and – I would say – with the Stortingen Defence Committee, which will be responsible for the preparation of the Stortingen Decision at the end of the seventh and final stage. So February has to last. But the thunderstorm is down, all the printing works are on strike – that kind of thing – so I can't guarantee for or against, so that's on the basis that I'm saying: Yes, we're going to do our very best to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e633	The time for the oral Question Time is now over, and we go over to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e638	The President would stress this: during the previous two Question Time, the President has had to use his right under the Rules to shorten the occasion for an additional question. That is not very satisfactory to the President. Today's list of questions is almost as long as the previous two. The President strongly asks the representatives to refrain from doing so if the second supplementary question is not imperative. Nevertheless, the President has some doubts as to whether it is appropriate to release the assembly with access to two additional questions. It may easily happen that the regulatory time of the morning meeting could be exceeded, but the president is willing to give the representatives the confidence that we can handle this within a reasonable time frame, and has now taken chances that he may regret bitterly afterwards. There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to today’s Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 2, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been away. Question 6, from the representative Lisbet Rugtvedt to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be raised by the representative Helge Bjørnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e658	This question, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e661	I allow myself to ask this question: ‘ILO will recommend to its members that their relations with Burma be reviewed and take measures to prevent Burma from exploiting the links to continue or extend the forced labour system. This can hardly be understood as other than a call for financial penalties, in line with the recommendations of Aung San Suu Kyi and the elected representatives of Burma. The ILO Decision shall be implemented on 30 November 2000. How has Norway intended to respond to the ILO’s call?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e670	There are systematic violations of human rights in Burma, including forced labour. Norway has protested on a number of occasions against the regime’s gross human rights violations and other abuses against the population. We have condemned the military junta's abuse of power against Aung San Suu Kyi. We have repeatedly asked the junta to enter into dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi and the democratically elected opposition. This government, like the Bondevik government, is actively promoting democratic development in Burma. We are now completing the work on new guidelines on how to promote democracy and human rights in the country. In our future commitment, we will, among other things, place even greater emphasis on support for the democratic opposition. We will also contribute to increased international pressure on the military regime through cooperation with other countries and active efforts in international organisations. The UN plays an important role in finding a solution to the situation. Norway will continue to pursue an active Burma policy in the UN and will also increase our support for the UN's efforts in Burma. The membership of the UN Security Council provides us with a new and important platform for closer dialogue with important countries on these issues. The ILO Labour Conference adopted in June this year a resolution on the implementation of measures against Burma if it fails to fulfil its obligations under Article 29 of the Convention on Forced Labour. On the basis of a report by the ILO delegation, which visited Burma earlier this autumn, a majority of the ILO Governing Board decided on 16 October to initiate the announced action against Burma. These include, inter alia: Member States shall review their relations with Burma and ensure that they do not contribute to forced labour. Norway is most remote from all forms of forced labour. We support the ILO decision to implement the resolution and will, of course, fully comply with the measures. As the Government sees it, the ILO resolution calls for the cessation of cooperation promoting or contributing to forced labour, not for the imposition of financial penalties more generally. Financial penalties as a means of promoting democracy and human rights should certainly also be discussed in relation to Burma. However, effective penalties require broad international relaxation. It is also very important to provide for sanctions in order to minimise their impact on the civilian population. Experience shows that it is very difficult to reach international agreement on the imposition of international penalties, and not least to maintain sanctions when unintended effects are evident. The Bondevik government issued a call for Norwegian companies not to deal with Burma in 1998. The call went to the NHO and the industry associations. These have shown a positive attitude to support the call and to promote it towards their membership organisations. This was an important addition to the pressure the trade union movement had already shown in the same direction. The Government fully supports these measures and will pursue the policies of the former government in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e694	I thank you for your answer. We have just received a message through NorWatch that Ulstein Tenfjord has exported a control machine to Burma, but it seems to be an exception, and the company regrets it. However, it may in itself be an expression that there is now a need to legislate Norwegian policy in relation to trade with Burma, so that businesses have clear guidelines. It is much more worrying that imports from Burma have increased significantly, in fact by a factor of 2.5 compared to the past, and there is a large increase in imports of timber, timber and timber products that can be linked to forced labour, and also to raging South-East Asia’s last large interconnected forest areas. On that basis, I believe that Norway should consider financial penalties. We also have a history, including: in relation to South Africa, where we have shown that showing and taking independent initiatives has led, and has also had consequences for others. The regime in Burma is so viciously rooted in fighting most of what we believe in, that I would encourage the Government to look again at the question of sanctions. For what other means should we have to stop an import that is now growing to the extent I have suggested on my question?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e703	Without having been given the opportunity to study these export/import figures, I have seen them referred in the paper. Me and we are disappointed that the imports from Burma, despite the calls made by the Government, have increased compared to last year. As mentioned above, the government expects Norwegian business to actively follow up the call given not to deal with Burma. As for the work on penalties, I refer to my answer instead. Of course, sanctions should also be assessed in relation to a country such as Burma. Bilateral sanctions have rarely been shown to have any particular effect, so that international sanctions are also applicable in such a case, but it has proved difficult to find a solution. I just want to repeat that the Government will continue its active Burma policy also in international organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e716	This question, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e719	I will be asked the following questions: ‘The employees of Nycomed Pharma’s plant in Oslo maintain that incorrect or incomplete information has been provided when acquisitions were authorised in August 1999. The condition under which the transferee should be required to dispose of the assets acquired or to reverse the decision to close the plant with more than 200 jobs would be present. Can the Council of State, on the basis of the assurances given that the acquisition would not lead to a reduction in production in Norway, defend not to enforce the provisions of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e728	Nordic Capital bought 70 pst in May 1999. of the shares in the Nycomed Pharma group and the remaining 30 pst. owned by the Nycomed Amersham group. The acquisition was notified to the Ministry of Industry and Trade on 14 June 1999. In the light of the information submitted in the file, it was authorised on 13 August 1999 without further testing. At the end of August this year, the Board of Directors of Nycomed Pharma decided on changes in the Scandinavian production structure. This means that the company's plant in Asker will become a pure-grown chewable tablet factory with an upgrade over the next few years with investments of approx. 110 million. kr. The Oslo factory will be shut down with a gradual down over three years. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade assesses whether the changes that have occurred in Nycomed Pharma’s Norwegian business are a breach of the authorisation granted in August 1999. In this context, it is essential to clarify whether the approval was granted on the basis of incorrect or incomplete information, or whether further testing was not carried out for the same reason, as stated above. acquisition laws § 20. It appears from the Act that, if it appears that the approval is due to incorrect or incomplete information or that testing has not been carried out for the same reason, the Ministry may require the transferee to dispose of the holdings and assets covered by the compulsory acquisition. I note that the representative Lund indicates that the employees claim that incorrect or incomplete information has been provided, and that it should be sufficient to withdraw the approval. However, the provisions of the Acquisition Act requiring the transferee to dispose of holdings assume that it is necessary to demonstrate that the transferee actually provided incorrect or incomplete information on its plans when the acquisition notification was pending. There are strict evidence requirements here. The views of employees are part of the assessment of evidence, but other aspects also need to be considered in this context. There have been several meetings with the management of the company, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has had regular contacts with representatives of the employees. In addition, the Ministry has requested and sent a comprehensive written material setting out the background and the reasons for the decisions taken. The handling of the matter has taken some time, including: due to the involvement of employees who have had to be further assessed in order to obtain the best possible assessment of the case. In fact, the Ministry has had meetings with employees all the way up until now. Employees have therefore had the opportunity to make their views known to the Ministry throughout the treatment period. For all the parties involved, it is unfortunate that there is still an unexplained situation in relation to the acquisition authorisation in 1999, and the Ministry of Industry and Trade is therefore aiming to settle the matter within a short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e745	I thank you for your answer. I believe that there is no doubt – the employees would say no to the acquisition if they had known what they know now. They were told that it was planned that production in Norway would increase. The Ministry asked the same question in a letter of July 1999 and it was black that growth was also expected for the business in Norway. As late as the summer this year, one month before the closure, the head office had moved, and then there was a new exchange of letters with the department. The new owner then maintained that the Norwegian business would not be significantly weakened. Laying down the factory is to weaken significantly. In the opinion of the employees, incorrect information has been provided all along. If it doesn't react to that this time, this law will be without any credibility. Isn't that an important moment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e754	As I said in my first answer, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is well aware of what the employees think, the employees have been involved in the process, and there have been many meetings and conversations. I can't say anything more here and now than that there will be a decision in this matter in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e759	We have a law of acquisition, and Section 20 says that here the department can intervene. Based on the purpose of that law, the department must intervene, and I cannot understand that it is possible to prove anything better than what has been done in this case. Before the national meeting in the Workers' Party, there was a newspaper release in which Thorbjørn Jagland said that we must now settle with the developments that are taking place. It is the ‘non-cancer’ that has taken over and determines the development, he said. He said that we have someone we should be able to call the "company butchers", who are allowed to walk freely. We have to do something with them. One thing like this has an infectious effect. It also matters to others if you can only write in a letter that we have no plans to shut down, but then work on such plans in parallel with the department sitting and handling the answer to the matter. I'm afraid of that infectious effect, and that's also what the employees are trying to free us from.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e768	I have nothing more to add than to assure you that the matter is going to be dealt with very thoroughly in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in relation to the allegations that have been made about incorrect or incomplete information. But I also stress that the evidence must be quite clear. However, I cannot say anything more now than that we are in dialogue with the employees, as I have said, and there will be a decision in this matter in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e776	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: "What time can a decision be made whether to move Áram krins to the municipality of Vanylven or still be part of the Sande municipality?"
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e783	The size determined by the treatment of St.prp. No 44 for 1998-99 that there was a need for further investigation of the impact of a border regulation on the islands of Kvamsøy and Sandsøy, before taking a position on the transfer of Åram krins from Sande to Vanylven municipality, cf. Inner. S. No 174 for 1998-99. On behalf of the Ministry, the County of More and Romesdal have prepared the implementation of the investigation. Societal research centres were promised by the Ministry on 5 October this year to carry out the investigation. This shall show consequences for interaction, living conditions and municipal services in the districts of Åram, Sandsøy and Kvamsøy in the event of a transfer of Åram krins to the municipality of Vanylven. Societal research centres will complete the project by the end of the year, and after consulting the municipalities, I intend to get a quick decision on the matter. I want to brief the Storting on the decision in the municipal economic proposition next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e792	I thank the Council of State for your answer. What the Council of State says shall be a swift decision, in other words, during March/April, when it shall inform the Council in May of its decision. If Åram is moved, will the Council of State consider whether there will be a new election in Vanylven, perhaps also in Sande, and whether it can be made in connection with the merger option to be held in September? For Jaram krins, they are likely to be moved to Vanylven without political action, and perhaps even if part of them is in Sande.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e799	I can assure you that all aspects of the case will be assessed before final decision is taken, and I can also assure you that that decision will be taken as soon as practicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e807	: I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘There now appears to be a majority in the Storting for a more liberal policy when it comes to collecting labour it needs from abroad. The Council of State has stated to the Newspaper on 21 November 2000 that she will look at the law again. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that those who are already in the country, for example in the context of education, who get a job and who are sure to be entertained and resident, remain in a position to discuss any changes in law and practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e816	I have set up a high-speed cross-ministerial working group to assess the need for simplification and softening of work permit legislation in both the short and long term. However, it is important, I think, to look at the different aspects of labour market policy and immigration policy in the context. If measures involving changes in the principles of immigration policy or provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act are to be implemented, the issue will normally be referred to the Stortinget. A general rule and a basic principle of the Foreign Affairs Act per Today, work permits must be available before entry, cf. the fourth paragraph of Section 6 of the Act. This means that a foreigner must have applied for authorisation from the home Member State and obtained an authorisation before entering Norway. There are many reasonable considerations that lie behind this rule, but it is also possible that the rule can help prevent the recruitment of labour. The working group will also, of course, consider the need for adjustments in this rule. Foreign students who complete a longer study here will in many cases represent a vocational education that Norway needs. They are considered to be ‘specialists’. The general rule that foreign students have to stay in their home country for five years before being granted a special permit in Norway was last adjusted for students who are seafaring to finance their studies here. The element of assistance and the purpose of providing the foreign students with the relevant skills training to benefit from in their country of origin are not as prominent for maritime-financing students as for the others. These can now receive a work permit as a specialist after completion of studies, without any quarantine requirement. In the case of those who receive their studies funded by Norwegian funds, the general rule is that they must remain in their home country for five years before they can obtain a work permit as a specialist here. But this is now going through the working group, and the government will be seagoing on the basis of what the working group will propose, decide on it, and see if there is also a need for relaxation at this point. We have no authority to temporarily suspend the existing legislation, either for students or for other foreigners who want permission. The rules on quarantine also apply. But, as I have said, the government is going to go through this very quickly. We're in the process, and we're going to – as far as it's necessary to go to Stortinget with it – get back to Stortinget during the spring with some suggestions for softenings, adjustments, or possible regulatory changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e834	I thank you for your answer, and I am glad that the Council of State will make these assessments. The background to the question is from Volda, where two siblings – exterminated health professionals from the Philippines – came to Volda to take an additional year in school. These are the people who have finished expanding, and who are the workers we have hurt to lack in Norway. They also have a lot of work to do. The pointless thing, I think, is that we show people we need, especially when we may be missing 4,000-5 000 health professionals. I am fully aware that the Council of State cannot comment on this particular matter in the Chamber, but I would like to have a small degree of deepening from the Council of State on a general basis. I am of course aware that the Council of State does not have the right to suspend the existing legislation, but is it possible to look at the practice? Is it possible to avoid the worst rash? Is it possible to avoid a situation where we expose people we sorely need to expand the Norwegian health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e843	As the representative Løvik Sjål said, I can't comment on the particular issue, but I think that on a general basis there can be – and I've seen and heard it – some examples of things that seem a little square on people most, and I have to say I understand that. That is why I also agree with what the representative Løvik and others have mentioned in many contexts, namely that we have a staggering shortage of labour in many sectors in Norway. I don't think we can solve it just by using the grip here at home, by getting more people to work differently, but that we also have to open up to get some more hits from other countries. But the legislation that exists is there until we create another, either by law, regulation or by adjusting practices, etc. It is also said that we are careful to follow up the practice of the legislation we have. But we can do nothing but follow the laws and rules that the Storting has also agreed to. But, as I said, I'm prepared to come back to Stortinget with something in this area in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e853	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘What will the Council of State do to enable first-time start-ups who buy an old dwelling to obtain this home purchase financed by the Husbank?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e860	The house bank has several schemes that are used to finance the purchase of used dwellings. The schemes in question are start-up loans and housing grants granted via municipalities and purchase loans granted directly from the Husbank. Establishment loans and housing grants are top finance schemes that can go both to the purchase of used dwellings and to the construction of new dwellings. Loans may amount to up to 90 pst. of the purchase price, while the housing allowance usually amounts to between 10 and 30 pst. Purchase loans are a land loan which is used exclusively for the purchase of a sea rented dwelling and which represents up to 80 pst. on the basis of which the loan is based. In the case of start-up loans, two thirds of the loans are made for the purchase of used housing. I believe that these are good and accurate schemes that help to facilitate housing funding for young people in particular, but also for single-parents, socially disadvantaged and others with low income or low equity. In many cases, Husbanken and the municipalities cooperate on financing packages where the Husbanken provides the basic financing with purchase loans and the municipalities provide the top funding with start-up loans and, where appropriate, housing grants. In this way, the applicant for housing can simply be fully financed by means of house-banking funds. Loans and mortgages have been prioritised within the mortgage lending framework of the House Bank in recent years, and from 1996 to 1999 the mortgage lending of the House Bank increased from SEK 1.6 billion, or 18 pst. of the frame, to NOK 2.7 billion, or 30 pst. of frame. In 1999, around 8,100 households were granted a start-up loan, 2,300 households received a purchase loan, and about 1,500 households received a housing grant to set up in their own owner's dwelling. Of these households, very many are young first-time settlers. These figures show, in my opinion, that the House Bank is largely a bank for the first time, or a so-called first home bank. The government wants to move forward in this direction by further developing the instruments so that they reach even more initial start-ups. In this context, I refer you to the package of measures entitled ‘A solidarity housing policy’, which I have presented. With the increase in the loan frame of NOK 2 billion proposed by the Government, and the Stortinge has joined, the Husbank can invest even more in start-up loans and mortgages, among other things. accept higher costs and thus increase the loan measurement. I have the goal of up to 50 pst. more than 8 000 loans granted to us today shall receive such loans. I also want to ease the need test. In addition, I would like to make it possible for municipalities to fully finance housing with a start-up loan, i.e. the 90 pst rule is deleted. The Government’s proposal to also increase the commitment frame for the housing grant by 152 million. Together with a commitment to start-up loans and purchase loans, kr will strengthen the ability of municipalities to offer young and disadvantaged people with weak economies loans, grants and housing solutions tailored to their housing needs and financial capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e871	I thank the Council of State for the answer. ==References== Half of all marriages end in divorce, and many cohabiting couples also separate. It is often the case that none of the parties subsequently have the economy to keep the dwelling they owned in common, and both parties need to find a smaller and fairer dwelling because of the poorer economy as lonely. What are the opportunities for this group of second-stagers to finance their housing in the House Bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e878	It is not such that there is any prohibition on being divorced or alone, against using the arrangements that the House Bank has, if one otherwise falls within the criteria that apply. One of the criteria is that one has a low income, but it is clear that this will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. But one tries to reach as many as possible by ordinary people and those with poor paying ability through the arrangements that the House Bank has. I believe, as I said, that through what the Government has proposed and the Storting has joined, more people will have the opportunity to get from that scheme for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e886	This question, from the representative Lisbet Rugtvedt to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is raised by the representative Helge Bjørnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e889	‘A family from Croatia, residing in Melbu, was expelled on Friday 17 November 2000 after having received a refusal to apply for asylum. The family, with a few hours' notice, was picked up at work and school. One of them was hospitalized and was taken to the airport in handcuffs. The family did not have time to settle in economics, deliver keys to work or say goodbye to friends after 2 and 1/2 years of stay. Why is such a procedure necessary and will the Council of State initiate a more dignified practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e896	When foreigners receive a refusal to leave, they are obliged to leave Norway on a voluntary basis. If they leave voluntarily, they do not get into situations that make it necessary for the police to apprehend them. It follows from the law that the police are not only entitled, but also an obligation to apprehend foreigners who have not left the country voluntarily under a final decision. When foreigners are apprehended by the police because they have not left the empire, this often arouses strong feelings and reactions. The police are required to exercise judgement on the manner in which the attack is to be carried out in order to minimise the burden on the persons concerned. However, sometimes it may be necessary, for various reasons, for example: to use handcuffs for an attack, e.g. to prevent damage to the sea or to persons becoming very disturbed. This is something that the police are allowed to do, but there must also be a concrete assessment of proportionality. For the sake of professional secrecy, I cannot give a detailed explanation of the specific case referred to here. However, I can inform you that the family has had its case assessed three times in the Ministry of Justice and once in the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. They received their last rejection in August of this year, but did not leave. Instead, there was another request for conversion that was not followed, and the police were again asked to initiate the shipment. Thus, the attack cannot be said to have been completely unexpected for the family. As regards the fact that one of the family members was arrested in a hospital, I stress that this can only be done after consulting the responsible medical staff at the hospital. The family member was also wearing handcuffs for a short period of time, while the medical responsibilities were present. The handcuffs were taken off when he was driven to the airport. The police must assess the situation on a case-by-case basis and also provide the police evaluation. It is difficult for me to assess it on a case-by-case basis, and that is what I believe the police have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e909	It is particularly outrageous when such a case affects a woman who is hospitalized with a diagnosis that a few years ago would mean that she was in asylum, an asylum that would protect her from the suffering she suffered. This does not apply to refugees. We record that there are different history descriptions from the department and government council and from the family and those who know the family. I want to focus on the framework condition for the exercise of power, because far too much attention is focused on the external levels, those that carry out the actions. I lack an ethical standard for the ministry's handling of these matters and wonder if the Council of State will review the ethical standard on which the ministry uses its practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e916	Because of the obligation of professional secrecy, I cannot say anything more about the specific matter. But I have to say that when the police are going to apprehend people who are going out because they have not traveled voluntarily, as they are actually obliged to do when they have received a refusal to stay in our country, it is clear that the police are going to do so in as gentle a way as possible in the interests of those concerned. But it is very difficult for me to have a detailed manual or guidelines in addition to what we already have, because the issues are so different in each case. I also think it's important to say that it's not always the production that comes out in the media or elsewhere, which is necessarily the right production. It also makes things a little difficult for us who represent the other side, when we can't say it as we know the case. But the point is that it's the police who, in my opinion, have to make the police professional assessment on a case-by-case basis, and it's hard for me to try it out, because it's so different from case-to-case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e926	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Religious midwifery was introduced in 1995. Studies show that the service does not function in accordance with the law. Positions are kept vigilant to save money, and in many places job homes are too small, so that it is impossible to have proper and adequate pregnancy control and follow-up services carried out. What will the Council of State do to ensure that pregnant women receive the service they require, and will he carry out an evaluation of the law on compulsory midwifery?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e935	The municipality has obligations to offer pregnant pregnancy control to a midwife in relation to a health centre. This was introduced by the Local Health Act in 1995 in accordance with the basic responsibility of the local health service for prevention. The municipality is not obliged to organise follow-up service for birthors. The law provides for the organisation of midwifery in several ways, depending on local needs and resources. Several municipalities can jointly employ one midwife. The municipality may also agree with hospitals or maternity wards on the sharing of midwifery positions. In addition, private-practice midwives can be employed in part-time positions at municipal health centres. In small municipalities with few births, there are naturally enough part-time positions for midwives. This may be due to recruitment problems, but many municipalities solve this, as mentioned earlier by working with other municipalities, hospitals or feeding rooms. In health region 5, which consists of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark, where there are many small municipalities in terms of population, such cooperation agreements have produced good results. Only two out of 85 municipalities in the health region lack midwifery. I think that is reason to claim that Norway has a good pregnancy control. Presumably, the health of pregnant women has never been better. Infant mortality is in line with that of the other Scandinavian countries, and is among the lowest in the world. If one sees the entire maternity care in Norway as a whole — including the mandatory midwife service in the municipalities — it is a very good response. Near 100 pst. use of the offer by all pregnant women. From this point of view, I do not think it is generally possible to say that the midwife service does not work after the intention, or that it is impossible to have the necessary and proper pregnancy control carried out. However, I am aware that there are examples that the midwife service does not always function as desired, or that the schemes chosen do not provide a proper working situation. It has taken time to strengthen maternity care in the municipalities. But we have a steady increase in the number of midwifery works carried out in the municipal health service. Through the State Health Authority and the supervision activities of county doctors, I am kept informed of the local authorities' efforts to comply with the obligations of compulsory midwifery. To get a clearer picture of the pregnancy control in Norway, I would like to assess whether there is a need to strengthen the supervision of pregnancy control in the municipalities. There is agreement that good cooperation between midwife and general practitioner provides the best service. The introduction of the fixed medical device on 1 June 2001 will also provide opportunities for wider cooperation between the pregnant woman’s regularity and pregnancy control at a health centre. Health surveillance is now carrying out a review of its obstetrics supervisor and will in this context, among other things. address the organisational issues. I believe these are aspects that will help ensure that pregnant women receive the service they are entitled to, and I do not see any reason to carry out an evaluation of the mandatory midwife service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e948	I thank you for the answer, which was disappointing and very little clarifying in relation to improving the situation of natives in District Norway and ensuring a good service wherever you live. A good midwife service is a prerequisite for establishing a differentiated and decentralised food supply, as the government says in the emergency message it will do. In 1999, there were nearly 200 women born during transport to the maternity ward, many without qualified assistance. Therefore, it is very serious that more municipalities are now reducing the midwifery service. In fact, animals have better protection when they are about to give birth, because animals are not allowed to be transported two weeks before expected descent. But women are transported over long distances to all the times of the day in all kinds of weather when they are in birth, most often without qualified follow-up. I do not suspect the Minister of Health to defend such a practice, but I want to know what he intends to do in relation to the municipalities involved, in order to ensure a proper midwife service and put an end to these irresponsible and unworthy circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e957	I will repeat from my first answer that I believe that in general we must say that we have a well-developed and good midwifery service and good pregnancy control in Norway. I want to warn you that based on examples that it doesn't work as it should, just as I was about to, generalize it. I think we must be able to say that in this respect we meet the reasonable requirements and above all the intentions contained in the legislation. The representative, Sjøli, then addresses in particular the issues related to accompanying services. As I said, it is not a duty that the municipalities have, then we have to work in other ways, and to that I can say that I want to see what we can do, in close contact with the municipalities, to strengthen that very part of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e964	Sonja Irene Sjøli to a short supplementary question. The President will again recall the call to try to deal with one additional question, unless something else is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e967	But it is, President. As long as the accompanying service is not required by law, many municipalities will not organise such a service. Many municipalities now speculate about the duty of midwives to provide immediate help even in leisure time. So the law of midwifery needs to be extended to follow-up and security services in those areas where there is more than one hour to the maternity ward. Even in a decentralised food supply, there will be a need for follow-up services, perhaps even more important, because it is mostly women who, for medical reasons, have to give birth at a special department. I'd like to ask the Health Minister if he thinks that births are emergency medicine when it's going on in hospitals or in maternity wards, but not when it's in ambulances, taxis, private cars or boats. I ask because in the emergency message, which we now have for treatment in Stortinget, there is not a single word about emergency care and follow-up services in connection with birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e976	I think it's medically independent of where it's going. I repeat that when it comes to the specific question of accompanying services, there is something that is not currently required by law, and so on, as I said in my first post, it is not something that the municipalities are obliged to do. I don't know that municipalities wonder about reducing the type of service, to the extent that they have, but I want to say that this is a relationship that I'm prepared to assess, and I want to look at what we can do with this in the case of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e986	‘There is now an economic savings campaign in the NRC which also affects district offices. The local anchoring of district offices is essential for the trust of the listeners in the NRC. Will the Council of State protect the NRK district offices, if any, from any cuts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e993	I would like to stress that the NRK is organised as a limited liability company. This means that the company has been given extensive powers in relation to the commercial operations of the company. Such freedom is necessary in order for the NRC to operate effectively in an increasingly dynamic broadcasting sector. The company faces rapid changes in technology, an acute competitive situation and significant challenges arising from digitisation. The NRK is currently in a tense economic situation. At the general meeting of the company this year, the Board of Directors was required to balance the operating performance of the NRK. I believe it is particularly important that the government of the NRK is now given the leeway to make the necessary savings and re-priorities. I will therefore deal with the need for the Governing Board to take the necessary decisions without the instruction of the Minister-General for Culture as a General Assembly. However, I assume that if the board of directors of the NRK made proposals that would lead to changes in the regional profile, it would be submitted to the general meeting in accordance with the company's statutes, and thus be dealt with politically. On a purely general basis, it is my clear impression that the NRC will continue to perform its general broadcasting role through a well-developed regional organisation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1009	I thank you for your answer. The district office is the NRK's biggest success, and it's a conscious broadcasting policy. In the third quarter, district broadcasts had a daily listener attendance of an average of 33 p.m., and in Sogn and Fjordane and in Finnmark of 50 p.m. In very many counties, the district shipment in NRK No. 2-news. So that's the diversity in the media we're talking about. There were probably two cities in North Norway now that dropped the number. The 2 paper, and in very many districts, it's actually just monopolist newspapers. Local anchoring and knowledge are identified by district offices. They teach local culture, music, organisational life and social debate. Can the Council of State contribute to the overall assessment by the Stortinget of how the NRC performs its licence-funded task of public broadcasting in all parts of the country, before any deterioration of the district offices occurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1018	In the view of the Ministry of Culture, the district office structure is also a matter of particular importance and importance to the Norwegian people. That is where we absolutely agree. If there were to be a situation in which the Board of Directors proposes substantial changes to this structure, as I have already said, it would be necessary to bring it up to the General Assembly, and it would then be the task of the Department and the Council of State to bring the matter forward to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1026	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘The 17 NRC District Office may be divided into 9 regions. Instead, offices are to be divided into nine regions where each region has its editor. The offices which do not receive their own regional editors will instead become sub-offices. Does the Council of State share these assessments with a view to making the NRK more efficient and rational, or does the Council of State have other future plans with the NRK’s further form?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1035	Let me make it clear that the government of the NRK has not taken any decision to change the structure of the district offices. I therefore see no reason to give any kind of assessment of a hypothetical situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1040	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was somewhat shorter than what I had hoped and believed. The Progress Party sees the importance of having good district offices around Norway. Due to the size and scale of Norway, it is important that they function in an efficient, rational, economic and sensible way. A district office is also involved in ensuring democracy and the ability of its citizens to deliver their message. District offices have a responsibility to do this and to ensure that the citizens want the NRK to provide as a service appliance. Therefore, it is important that the regions do not become too large and hence the distance too insurmountable. Good skills and investment in equipment and premises have also been built over many years. In the context of the licence, it is determined how much of this will go to the district offices. Although the Progress Party is against compulsory licensing, we obviously accept today's system, and we want every paid crown to go to the best of the licensors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1054	First, I want to correct a few words in the text of the question. It says ‘there is a decision taken’, it should of course read ‘proposals have been made’. I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs, as amended: ‘Proposals have been made for the deduction of the dependant allowance to be withdrawn from the declaration and for the granting of the child benefit. Many, very many, municipalities count child welfare as part of income when calculating any payment of social assistance. Now these families get the allowance added to the income and become losers in this system. They kind of lose the care allowance. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1065	Economic social assistance constitutes a last safety net for persons who are otherwise unable to provide for their living. The benefit shall ensure that all have sufficient resources for necessary living. The principle of the law is that all income and income opportunities should be taken into account when assessing an application for economic social assistance. The overall economic situation of the applicant is assessed. This includes, inter alia: public support schemes, not just the family allowances. The care allowance, as it is today, is also part of the overall assessment. Tax is a cost that is taken into account, and reduced taxes due to deduction mean that expenditure is reduced. However, the deduction is a special deduction, because it is not only a deduction from the tax for persons who pay taxes but also implies that persons without taxable income are paid the deduction in cash. Beneficiaries of economic social assistance will often belong to the group that has received the deduction in cash. Such a payment is also regarded by the Social Services Act as income at the time of payment and is included in the assessment of whether an applicant will receive financial benefit and in the case of how much. For social assistance recipients who have taxable income and receive a deduction from the tax, the deduction results in a reduced cost and therefore, as mentioned above, is significant in assessing the social benefit needs and the level of the benefits. As there is always the individual need to be taken into account in assessing an application for social assistance, the change in dependants' deductions and child allowances will in principle not lead to any real change in the overall economic situation of social welfare beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1076	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Some municipalities also count the cash support as part of the income of social assistance recipients. This also discriminates against this group in Kommune-Norway. We obviously need greater equal treatment of social welfare beneficiaries in several areas of the municipalities. What will the Council of State do to remedy this discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1081	There is a significant difference between municipalities and municipalities in how to calculate social assistance, and not everything can be explained by municipal differences. That's also the basis for asking me to come back here with a different way of calculating social assistance, and I will do that if not for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1089	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The State budget for 2000 allocates 50 million. crowns for the extension of the terminal building at Stavanger Airport at Sola. However, there have been indications that the Aviation Agency will further shift its development. Will the Council of State take action to ensure that the required development is undertaken as provided for in the State budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1098	The Government’s 2001 draft government budget proposed significant appropriations for the extension of the expedition building at Stavanger airport, Sola. The government should have made it clear that this action should have a high priority. I am aware that the Swedish Aviation Agency has announced its intention to start construction at the Sola in the fourth quarter of 2001. In this context, I would like to take the opportunity to point out that the Ministry of Transport's budget proposal has highlighted the uncertainty about developments in aviation and that there may be a need to come back to the Grand Duchy with a revision of the Aviation Agency's budget. If such a situation would result in reduced investment frameworks for the Aviation Agency, comprehensive assessments will be made to clarify how this should be done in order to optimise the overall functioning of the Aviation Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1107	In Rogaland, there was a considerable relief when a read proposal for the 2001 state budget. In addition, Secretary of State Eirin Sundt used this as one of the flagships to point out that this budget proposal was also good for Rogaland. In the budgetary position of the State budget for 2000, a unanimous committee said that among the main tasks in the field of despatch, other buildings, etc. in 2000 was the start of construction for the extension of the check-in area and the baggage hall at Stavanger airport, Sola. However, I am concerned when the Council of State says that this will be re-assessed in the context of an overall assessment of the Aviation Agency's budget. There has recently been a strong signal that there may be a misunderstanding between what is in the State budget and what the Aviation Administration itself says. So I want to ask the Council of State again: will he continue to give priority to the expansion at Stavanger Airport, Sola?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1114	In the way that the expansion of Stavanger Airport, the Sola, is managed in the State budget, the Government will give high priority to this, and we will also raise a significant stake in 2001. The uncertainty is present with regard to the Aviation Agency’s economy, as also indicated in the budget proposal. In recent times, this uncertainty has not increased, and it is still the case that we are committed to starting the reconstruction of the solar terminal building in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1124	‘In consultation dated 16 July 1997, the Road Directorate proposed simplified approval procedures for used imported cars which had previously been registered for at least 6 months within an EU country or the United States. More than 3 years later, it is still almost impossible to obtain the approval of second-hand imported cars produced for the US market. Does the Council of State consider that a treatment period of more than 3 years is acceptable when one knows that the corresponding authorisation does not represent a problem in, for example, Sweden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1131	The proposal referred to was met with objections from the Hearing Officers, and the Directorate-General for Road Transport therefore decided that the proposal should not be implemented. These are both car importers and stakeholder organisations briefed on. Resistance to the fact that the proposal could lead to a discriminatory treatment of importers of US cars manufactured on the European market in respect of documentation requirements for compliance with safety requirements. I consider it very important that cars on Norwegian roads keep a high safety standard, and do not want any development with the approval of imported used cars that do not meet essential European safety requirements, or that there may be uncertainties related to this issue. With regard to the rules for the approval of imported used cars in Sweden, the time has not given the opportunity to provide a satisfactory overview of their practices. This part of the question will therefore be explained in a separate letter to the representative of Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1140	That was a very little satisfactory answer. In fact, if cars are imported from the United States into an EU country – Germany, Sweden, yes, in any case – the cars are approved there, based on the requirements in the United States. The requirements in the United States are no worse than the European requirements, but they are designed differently. And then it's a little strange that even though the car has been registered in Germany, Sweden or other countries that have the same rules as Norway, it's not possible to get it registered in Norway. This has led to unusually high prices of American-produced cars in Norway because importers have a monopoly on these imports. Driving technical specifications are not obtained and therefore imports of such used cars are not authorised. Does the Minister not see this problem? And will he take hold of it and do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1147	It is not, on the basis of the information in my possession, that there is a common EU legislation for the approval of imports of second-hand American cars intended for the US market. On the other hand, in the case of imports of cars produced on the European market, there are common rules. There are different requirements in different EU countries for American cars produced for the US market. It is such that safety requirements are different in the case of American cars and European cars. I still want to have high standards of security, and that we should base ourselves on the rules that apply mainly to the EU area. As this case now stands, I see no need to take further legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1158	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Recently many teams have issued statements on large-scale quota jacks in the fishing industry. This is also confirmed by industry actors. Has the Ministry of Fisheries or the Council of State known about these conditions before recent revelations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1167	Control of resource extraction in our seas is a fundamental prerequisite for a stable and long-term high yield from fisheries. As Minister of Fisheries, I am very concerned about this. I am not aware of the fact that there are rumors and rumors that illegalities are taking place in the form of quota shocks. However, I have only been made aware of the fact that the size of the circumvention can be very large in recent times. It is not possible to quantify the extent of this magnitude, but it can be established that the scale is so large that increased control efforts and stronger reactions need to be implemented. This is confirmed by controls carried out by Coast Guard, Fisheries Directorate and the Sales Act. Of course, the Ministry of Fisheries also takes well-founded allegations of illegalities seriously. However, the practice rules for this industry, with a diversity of actors in vast seas, cannot be based on rumors. It would be irresponsible of me. I have to rely on the information obtained from the activities of the control bodies and the prosecution and judicial authorities in this area. And these are drawing a slightly less dramatic picture than what we've been able to read out of the media in the last few days. The Ministry of Fisheries is constantly working to improve and streamline control activities. This also involves dialogue with industry and drawing exchanges on the experience gained from fishermen, purchasers and other actors. Yesterday I held a meeting in the Ministry of Fisheries with representatives from the Norwegian Fisheries Team, the Swedish Fisheries Association, the Swedish Fisheries Associations Cooperation Council, the Coast Guard, the Directorate of Fisheries and the Ministry of Justice. At this meeting, there was agreement on a number of measures to bring the quota premium back to life. We can't help but put more money into control. This may be partly done by re-priorities, the purchasers' and sellers' side taking a greater share of the costs of increased control and the granting of fresh funds by the Community. Further focus was placed on the need for the introduction of landing notes, as well as stricter and more effective responses at the criminal and administrative level. That the prosecution authority has to give priority to the issues relating to quota fraud was strongly emphasised in this context. Similarly, the promotion of good attitudes within the industry shall be emphasised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1182	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Initially, I would like to say that in this case, as in very many other cases, it is important not to generalise and condemn an entire industry, but to focus on and align actions against the individual offender. It is claimed by senior management in the fishing environment that a major juxtaposition has been known over a long period of time. There are claims about fish fraud for billions. If that has been the case, it is to be expected that the department and the political bodies have heard of this unculture. We must have a public system that provides confidence that the public will respond quickly if illegalities occur. Then my question is: will the Minister for Fisheries intensify the internal procedures so that the responsible body, in this case the Council of State, is made aware of the extent and illegalities in a timely manner, so that reactions can be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1193	I agree with the representative of Kongshaug that it is important not to generalise in this matter, and that measures are put in place where they work. It has always been such that a comprehensive control is carried out. That's still the way it should be. Furthermore, it has always been that those carrying out these checks report to the fisheries authorities on their follow-up and whether it is followed up to the extent necessary to verify the facts. Based on the summary we made at yesterday's meeting, we have concluded that there is a basis for increasing criminal reactions and controlling more. This is and should always be a natural part of the work of the fisheries management. I want to make sure that I am kept constantly informed about the situation in this regard, and that the new measures we are now taking are working, so that we can bring this to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1205	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The use of inspectors on board Norwegian trawlers is permitted. To what extent is the home used?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1214	Over the last two years, the size has granted 1.7 million. kr to the inspectorate’s organisation at sea. On this basis, four inspectors are employed. These are used in the cod sector in the Barents Sea and in Norwegian mackerel fishing in the North Sea. In the Barents Sea, inspectors on board trawlers are used throughout the year, except for the period September to October, when they are used on board Norwegian purse seiners during mackerel fishing. In cod fishing, inspectors have been on board the trawl from two to six weeks. In mackerel fishing, inspectors have been on board for the entire period during which the vessel is used to fish its quota. On board the trawls there are two inspectors following the vessel's watch regime, with one inspector during the mackerel fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1225	I have a simple follow-up question. Is it true that the funds earmarked are being used, but there is too little money to expand the scheme? Will the Minister for Fisheries say that it is a priority task to increase that pot and that it has an effect on the use of inspectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1230	I can confirm that the funds allocated for this purpose are being used. I can also repeat what I said in my previous answer, namely that the funds allocated to control should be increased. It is my position that the Fisheries Director is the closest to assessing what provides the best possible control based on the means available to us. If the fisheries manager finds that the most effective thing is that we increase controls on board vessels, I will take note of that and follow it. If he concludes that the funds have been better used for control purposes if they are used in other conditions in the fisheries, I still believe that he is the closest when it comes to being competent to assess where we get the most control for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1238	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission has adopted a cod quota in the Barents Sea of 395 000 tonnes per year for 3 years to come. The Ministry of Fisheries is of the opinion that the stock will increase by such an quota. At the same time, extensive unreported fishing has been identified. What is the stock forecast if the marine research institute’s estimate of annual unreported fishing of 100 000 tonnes is real?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1247	Any error in the catch statistics clumsy both the basis for the researchers’ quota recommendations and the basis for the existing regulation of fisheries. Today, we do not have a numerical estimate of errors in the catch statistics for Norwegian-Arctic cod. It is therefore impossible to provide a useful quantification of the impact of under-reporting on catch and stock forecasts. Sub-reporting at a level of around 100 000 tonnes this year and next year, as the representative Myrvoll suggests, will, of course, increase the risk of missing out on the stock increase for which the agreed quota for 2001-2003 would initially allow. In the last stock assessment of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, there was a broad discussion on the reliability of the reporting of catches. The conclusion was that the problem could be significant, but the available documentation was too small to allow the error to be fixed. Therefore, ICES did not present calculations based on under-reporting. However, some changes were introduced to make the calculations less sensitive to any long-term changes in baseline data, but forecasts remain sensitive to any errors in catch statistics in recent years and in the coming years. During the last year, several projects have been launched by the Institute of Marine Research to illustrate the reliability of catch statistics. A reference group has been set up to establish a system to provide reliable catch data and associated uncertainty estimates. Furthermore, a reference fleet consisting of six fishing vessels carrying out regular and detailed measurements has been established and at the same time surveys are carried out on the fishing industry. The issues related to under-reporting in cod fisheries are therefore on the agenda, and the measures I have now mentioned will form the basis for a more detailed numbering of the problem. Today, however, we do not have the basis for a concrete calculation of modified catch forecasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1260	It surprises me and almost shocks me, to use the words of the Minister of Fisheries from the recent newspapers, that he is talking about ‘Riches’ and ‘recently’ in a previous answer. In an interview with researcher Odd Nakken in the evening post last November, he says that illegal fishing of cod in the Barents Sea is probably the main reason why researchers are bombing the stock measurements year after year. He says that there is a combination of illegal discards of fish and unregistered fishing etc. He also refers to a report carried out by the Ministry of Fisheries in 1992, which concluded that unregistered fishing in that year was 36 pst. of the reported fisheries. That is, 130 000 tonnes were fished black. It was a 1992 report. That the minister doesn't know about it now, it surprises me. My question is then: When unreported fishing is not taken into account, whether it is illegal discards or black marketing, can it be said that the quota determination is responsible resource management?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1271	I tried to answer very specifically the question asked by the representative Myrvoll. And the concrete answer when it came to quantifying, is that this per. Today it is not possible to quantify to such an extent that the exact effect of it can be calculated. But these are things that you take seriously. New investigations have been launched in order to be able to quantify this. However, once we have found the basis for setting this quota as we have done, it is also based on the analyses carried out by the Marine Research Institute, which show an underlying growth in the population, but these analyses are also based on the uncertain figures that you have. It's given a confidence interval of this, and that's what we have to relate to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1281	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: «The EEA Agreement provides for the transit of fish cargoes from foreign vessels through Norway outside the trading and import system. It has been Norwegian policy that transit landings should not take place. The fish was to be imported or traded in the sales strike system. The government is now signaling a change in this policy, as it is now adding up to facilitating transit. Is this correct and will this not undermine the Norwegian trading system through the sales teams and the resource control?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1290	The question of access to the transit of fish through Norway was raised by the EU during the negotiations on the EEA Agreement. A transit means that EU vessels may land fish in Norway for further transport to the EU, irrespective of the system of placing on the market through or with the approval of a type of sale. When the EEA negotiations were concluded, this question was still not clarified. However, the parties agreed to continue their discussions with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory solution. Negotiations were subsequently resumed and a text was agreed in November 1995. During the subsequent examination of the agreement in the EU, Sweden raised objections to the tax component. Later France also joined the objections raised. As a result, the agreement was not finalised and that is still the situation. The negotiated agreement implies that in order to be able to transit fish, EU vessels had to land the fish in one of 20 designated ports. The landings were to be notified in good time. Ports were selected taking into account the possibility of carrying out a resource control and a reasonable geographical spread. In such a transit, an inspection fee was to be paid. Such a transit system will form part of the provisions applicable to trade in fish between Norway and the EU. Those provisions governed by Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement contain some open questions. For Norway, this is not satisfactory, and there has been a dialogue between the EFTA countries and the European Commission since 1999 to address this situation. The EU Commission has not signalled any strong willingness to discuss comprehensive substance of any amendments or clarifications to Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement. However, we must be aware that transit is something we have committed ourselves to in the EEA Agreement and that the EU has signaled that they still want such a system. It is therefore not right to claim that the Government signals a change in policy. What is happening is that we are following the initiative taken to enter into dialogue with the EU on trade conditions for the export of fish to the EU. The transit question will be part of the total package in the dialogue with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1305	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to take the opportunity to quote from St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002-2011. It's on page 124, under the cover. 9 point 3.3: ‘Further to the EEA Agreement, the need to further develop transit ports, allowing EU-wide vessels to land and transit outside the Norwegian fishing trading code. On this basis, the Ministry of Fisheries will further assess whether it may be appropriate to facilitate the operation of the foreign fishing fleet by a number of fishing ports in Norway.» This is the word of the Ministry of Fisheries. Here the ministry clearly says that they want to facilitate sales outside the sales strike system. Is this in line with good resource control, which is currently being discussed in these days? And is there any reason to believe that EU fishermen are more law-abiding than Norwegian fishermen?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1319	As I said, the question of transit is not in place. So we don't have the transit of fish through Norway. But we have an agreement that opens up for this, and that can be implemented if both parties agree. Transit means that things are not being traded. In the agreement with the EU, we have made sure that the fish will be controlled if it is landed in Norway. We have also made sure that the Norwegian control authorities or the sales teams to do so will pay for it. As long as we ensure that transit is not a circumvention of legislation or a non-quota catch, and we ensure that it is recorded and reported, the control of this should be just as good as the control we exercise with our own vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1328	I am aware of the request not to use the entire speaking time. Transit means, in an international sense, that the boat comes to port under a customs seal. The fish goes into a warehouse with a hatchet on the door. It is loaded onto a trailer with a hatch on the door. It's transit. It is transported through the country, and if the hatches and seals are broken, there is a breach of customs rules. How has the Minister for Fisheries intended to ensure resource control when boats in transit come under customs law and are not to be checked? According to international legislation, transit means ‘outside the system’, which means free passage through the country. The question will be: how should the resource control be exercised in this field? I hope that negotiations will continue for many, many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1337	There is a real danger that the representative will be satisfied, because there has not been a great deal of willingness on the part of the European Commission to move forward on these issues. But I want to repeat what I said instead: in the agreement that has been negotiated – and that is a specific agreement with the EU on the transit of fish through Norway – the control issues must be addressed by controlling the fish on landing, by the fact that EU vessels have to deal with a small number of ports, and by the fact that they have to notify in advance where they are coming and when they arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1347	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Last week, media redrafts were again made on alleged circumvention of the fisheries and fishing turnover legislation. It is a fact that there are now several cases that are being investigated by the police. The rules are complicated, and many nutritionists do not want to do so. In order to learn the truth about what has happened, and to assess any fishing amnesty, a Truth and Amnesty Commission should be set up. Is the Council of State willing to take the initiative in appointing such a Commission of Truth and Amnesty?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1356	Let me begin by stating that the legislation is complicated. For example, the rules on by-catch and minimum measures are not always as easy to deal with when fishing. When you put it to use, you don't know what you get. However, a fisherman is not a criminal, even if the catch did not always have to conform to the rules. It's not criminal to get too much by-catch. What's criminal is trying to hide the fact. What to do is to keep a fishing logbook to show what has been received, and when delivered, a brewing note, or final note, showing the catch as it is. Thereafter, that part of the catch which may be contrary to the rules shall be withdrawn and the value shall be due to the sales laws, which, as is known, are owned by the fishermen themselves. The fisherman is compensated for the costs of landing the catch, standardised at 20 pst. of the amount of the withdrawal. It is this which is a loyal adherence to the rules, and this kind of withdrawal is by no means a criminalisation of the fishermen. However, if an attempt is made to conceal what has happened by incorrect keeping of the fishing logbook or notes, the situation is different. As regards the question of initiating the appointment of a Truth and Amnesty Commission, I consider this – in the light of my response to the representative, Kongshaug – as an out-of-date approach to the issues we are facing. I also refer to my previous reply to the representative of Kongshaug on the issue of large-scale quota shocks. Finally, I must stress that the actors have a key responsibility for managing the fishing resources. The fishermen make use of our common natural resources free of charge and should not sabotage the branch on which they sit. Through systematic fraud, not only the cod population is at risk, but also the fishermen’s own livelihood.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1372	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I note that no initiative will be taken for a Commission. I then assume that the measures that are necessary to make sure that what is going on or not is going on will be taken. Because when one after another stands up and confesses some fraud, it should immediately be reported and police researched to find out if what they are saying is true or not. It is unsustainable to continue to live with scanning, media postings with claims that the industry is permeated by cheating and cheating and fantasy. I must also draw attention to the fact that the co-location of the Directorate-General for Fisheries, the Control Agency, has led inspectors who were supposed to be on the berth, sitting and blazing in papers and pellets on a PC. Does the Minister for Fisheries now understand that my commitment last week and week before it matters? And isn't it time to re-assess the co-location and get the controllers back on the quay?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1381	I understand very well the reactions of Mr Bastesen and the initiatives he is calling for. I have exactly the same attitude toward this. These are things that we have to do something with. We need to deploy control resources where they work. We have to judge those who have done something wrong, and then I believe it is wrong to give a general amnesty based on a rumor flood. We have a general increase in the number of cases brought to trial. This is good, and I hope it's deterrent. We need to strengthen these measures, they need to have more deterrent effect, we need more control. But my attitude is that if the most effective control is on the kaikant, then we'll do it there. If the most effective control is to look at documents and check that incoming and outgoing purchases are correct, then we should do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1388	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and we are very much in agreement. It is clear that the industry cannot live with the fact that it is still going to stand up and claim things without them being able to document it and willing to take the prosecution consequences of it. Then it's time to make other grips. The reason I asked the question was that you could possibly find out: is that true, is it true, that it's so wrong in the industry, or isn't it? I understand that the Minister for Fisheries is not willing to set up such a commission, and I naturally bow down to that, but then at least other measures must be taken to put an end to these media accumulations at an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1400	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘On 20 October 2000, the Ministry of Fisheries rejected an application to fish for extended recreational purposes in Sognefjorden. The applicant wants to test whether he can make a fjord fish that is not exploited by established professional fishermen into a livelihood. Of your seeker's income, he is also cut off from being registered in the number of fishermen. Will the Council of State reverse the refusal and take initiatives on more flexible rules that do not prevent the development of value creation and profitable jobs in fjord and coastal areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1409	The aim of the number of fishermen is to ensure the registration of all those who live in Norway and who have fish for salt or fish for animals in the sea for feeding purposes, including: by granting rights or aid schemes to those who have fish or catch as their livelihood, in whole or in part. Leadership in the number of fishermen is mainly important in three different cases: It's by acknowledgment of rights according to popular order, that is. sickness benefit, compensation for occupational injury, etc. It is through the granting of aid under various aid schemes, such as guarantee lots, a-social benefits, line-based subsidies, reimbursement of the levy on mineral oil, pension benefits, etc. It's to direct participation in the different fisheries. In addition, registration in the number of fishermen is used when assessing whether a person is a professional fisherman or whether he is to be characterised as a recreational fisherman in the sense of the Saltwater Fishing Act. A person not included in the number of fishermen is considered to be a recreational fisherman and is subject to the provisions of the Seawater Fishing Act on the use of the maximum quantity of fishing gear. In addition, whether or not an application for a fishing authorisation is registered in Thus, changing the conditions of entry into the number of fishermen would have an effect in addition to the fact that a man-numbered person is allowed to fish with a quantity of gear exceeding that of another recreational fisherman. I do not want to go in to change the conditions in order to be included in the number of fishermen without this being thoroughly investigated. However, I would point out that a working group, consisting of representatives from, among others, Norges Fiskerlag and the fisheries authorities, have previously been assigned to look at the legislation around the number of fishermen. Work is ongoing and will continue beyond 2001. I will ensure that the working group is briefed on the issue raised here and that this is discussed internally in this working group. Finally, I would like to remind you that professional fishermen should still have a certain level of professional protection. However, when the working group makes its recommendation, I will of course also look at this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1434	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which cannot be considered satisfactory on the basis of the case at hand. If we look at the application, and especially the complaint, it's experimental fishing that would just as well be the headline of this case, like the more sensible rules on fishermen's numbers. I would like to remind you that the local department of the Directorate of Fisheries has made a positive recommendation on this matter with reference also to Section 2 of the Saltwater Fisheries Act, which states that the Director of Fisheries may allow scientific studies and practical fishing trials to be carried out without regard to the provisions of or in compliance with this Act. No part of the procedure as far as I am aware has approached the issue from a trial fishing point of view. Does the Minister for Fisheries have a point of view on the matter on the basis of such an approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1446	According to what I know about this matter, I think it would be too far to characterize this as experimental fishing or research that falls within the definitions that we normally use. I want to use as a principle that equal cases should be treated equally. It's a well-known case that there's a relatively large proportion of the population who's gradually doing pretty good with leisure time, it can be people who are doing activities where they have long periods out of service. I think it would be the wrong use of our resources if we were to make special provision for people with a lot of leisure time to expand their business at the expense of what is professional fishing. But this issue, as I said, will be assessed in the context of the report of the sample currently in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1453	It is important to clarify that this is the right approach. It is clear from the application and the complaint that there will be no distortion for the professional fishermen concerned. That's well explained. A trial period of three years has also been demonstrated to find profitability if possible. And the applicant is in a very special situation and is willing to use private resources, possibly find new ways, to create new jobs. I also remind you that this experimental approach has been commented on by a former Council of State, Peter Angelsen, in that case, where the Stortinget gave the Department guidelines that after previous rejection, the interpretation of the law had to be approached in a different way when it came to experimental fishing. I ask the Minister for Fisheries to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1465	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘According to the media, the management of the Ministry of Fisheries has been completely unaware of the widespread juxtaposition in the fisheries referred to in the media. At the same time, the Council of State states that we have a control unit that is good enough to detect possible fraud, and says that everyone in the fishing boats and on the quay who has contributed to a violation of the rules is to be severely punished. What else will the Council of State do to ensure that regulation and control are such that our management of fishing resources does not lose its credibility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1474	We have a regulatory framework through, for example: the rules on the satellite tracking of fishing vessels, catch logbook and placard/end-code to ensure that the catch taken by the fisherman from the sea is recorded. I expect fishermen to follow this code. The Fisheries Directorate and the Coast Guard are doing a great deal of work to control both the practice of fishing and the delivery of catches. It goes without saying, however, that we cannot control any landing, much less any fishing operation. It would require far greater resources than what is possible to put in, and I don't think any of us want a society where control is so close. With regard to the extent of the trick that is being done, I refer you to my answer to the question from the representative of Kongshaug. However, it is important to react to the breaches of the rules that are being revealed. We are currently carrying out administrative arrests, and serious violations of the rules are also reported and prosecuted by the police and prosecution authorities. I realize, however, that this is not enough. Yesterday, in the Ministry of Fisheries meeting with a broad participation from the fishing industry and management, there was an agreement, as I have had earlier today, on increased quota control and other measures to help bring the quota jack to life. I see the need to add more resources to the control area to intensify the control work. I will assess the need to introduce landing notes, and facilitate stricter and more effective management and judicial responses to the fraud that is being discovered. I see the need for the prosecution authority to give priority to the work on fisheries-related matters. And, not least, efforts need to be made in the field of awareness-raising, which, together with effective control procedures, should move in the right direction. The Ministry of Fisheries will continue to work on proposals for legislative amendments, which will further strengthen control of resource extraction. These are proposals which have been at the hearing and which will affect, inter alia: calculation rules for the country of catch, extension of the withdrawal framework, enhanced control competence for the Directorate-General for Fisheries and modification of the sanctions framework in the Seawater Fisheries Act and the Law on Raw Fish. The aim is that a proposition on the matter will be submitted to the Stortinget during the course of March next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1489	I thank you for your answer. One of the mysteries about this that it can be such a big joke, such an accomplished joke, and that we have such a good control, is that the Council of State doesn't know that it's happening! There is no information about this trick to the Council of State, nor will it go to the Stortinget. And it said in the papers today that it could be up to 20 pst. of the fish which went in such a way as to be unregulated. I saw the press release from the meeting yesterday, with the measures to come. There was a lot of control and a lot of sanctions against them in the boat and those on the dock, and I think it's necessary. But there is also a need for a control apparatus that is such that it does not sabotage the information that needs to be passed on. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is whether he has taken his own apparatus in his ears, and that work on the legislation is being speeded up, so that the legislation is adapted to the reality of the sea and the quay, and not primarily to the reality of the desktop.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1500	Significant work is being done in all parts of the fisheries management to detect fish jacks. This is shown by the increasing number of notifications that we have of conditions that the fisheries management reveals. At the latest yesterday's Finnmarken, regional director Hartviksen in Vadsø explained that they had discovered two new cases of fishing jacks in a matter that they had worked with for a while. This is good, but it's not good enough when this has an extent that we've heard of lately. Therefore, it is important to provide more resources, which is why it is important to increase the level of response in order to achieve this properly. I can't see that it's right to act every time you get this kind of rumor. The important thing is to get a thorough overview of the actual situation. Only then are we able to cure correctly in relation to the disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1507	I thank you again for the answer. I would like to stress that I am pleased that it is now being worked as seriously as it is being done with this. I think it is important to stress that there must be balanced responses, and that something must also be done to help those handling a code, which – at least according to what has been said in conversations with me – is very difficult. The fact that we have a control unit that is comprehensive enough, that appears often enough, and that the errors that are discovered, end up with reactions that are adapted to the reality we live in, is also important. It is to make sure that we can now have confidence in what we ourselves are doing, that other countries can have confidence in the administration that we have taken on behalf of the international community, and not least that the reputation of the industry does not lose itself more than what has already happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1517	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The State of the Kingdom’ on TV 2 15 November 2000 claims that government regulations on the sorting of food waste have cost taxpayers billions of dollars, without any proven environmental impact. How will the Council of State deal with these claims?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1526	Wet organic waste, which also includes food waste, is part of the most polluting waste from landfilling. When the waste is degraded, the greenhouse gas is formed methane, and methane emissions from waste treatment are 7 pst. of Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the landfill of organic waste results in the release of nutrient salts into water. Food waste added to the filling will attract birds and pests and increase the risk of spread of infectious agents, including: for drinking water. This is why, in the context of its concession treatment under the pollution law, the county council has put in place strict restrictions on the disposal of this waste. It is essentially not to be deposited in landfills. The TV2 programme, to which the representative Höie refers, addressed a key issue in waste policy. How can we manage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental problems from waste treatment in a way that is socially viable? It is very important when designing instruments in waste policy that the costs of the measures in question are balanced against the socio-economic benefits, including environmental benefits. For wet organic waste, both analyses and experience show significant environmental benefits by removing this type of waste from the landfills. It is therefore the same practice in several other countries and that an EU directive in the field requires all countries to adopt a strategy to reduce the landfilling of such waste. When, as in this case, it is focused on the treatment costs of composting wet organic waste, it is important to remember that alternative management of this waste is also not free of charge. Combustion and landfill facilities also require significant investments. However, I would like to stress that this part of the waste policy is challenging. Costs associated with the treatment of waste and estimates of environmental benefits are changing as new technologies and new estimation methods are developed. At the same time, it is important to stress that food waste is not just an environmental problem. It contains important nutrients that it is desirable to return to the cycle of nature. To use this as an input in agriculture, there is a need for product development and the development of the market for waste-based feed, fertilisers and soil improvers. These include: on the basis of this problem, that we have set up a separate cooperation project between the environmental protection authorities and the agricultural authorities these days. ORIO is a project to help find good and forward-looking recovery solutions for wet organic waste and sludge. The project is established in close cooperation with the actors in the waste and agricultural sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1539	First of all, I would like to thank you for your answer and, first of all, I would like to say that I fully share the Minister for the Environment's assessment of the need to prevent this type of waste from going to landfill. On the other hand, the discussion goes on, which is the way in which a person treats this waste. That was what this programme questioned – the relationship to the cost-benefit effect of composting plants. I'm going to leave it, but it's quite obvious that lately there's been a number of media lookups that in many ways question a position that has been prominent, that's the use of source sorting. That is why I would ask the Minister for the Environment to say something about how the State can contribute in its own way to ensuring that the treatment methods applied around the municipalities are as effective as possible in achieving a food-benefit effect in relation to the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1546	I see it as important that the state contributes to information, contributes to technological development and contributes to better cooperation arrangements between municipalities, private actors and the state in this area in order to continuously improve the solutions needed to manage wet organic waste in a good way. Otherwise, experience shows that the current cost of treating this waste in new, advanced composting plants is about the same as the cost of incinerating this waste – a price of around SEK 600-800 per year. tonnes. Children’s diseases are linked to much of the new technology, and there are many challenges to getting it better. We are well in the process of collaborative projects, information projects and technology development that can improve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1556	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘In Våler in Østfold, the wolf’s fear results in mental distress in the form of anxiety and depression. Many stay indoors as far as possible, and schoolchildren are absent from education. These are examples of the wolf giving greater cost to society than the farmers' loss of sheep and buffalo. Information work has not given less forceful or less aggression. Does the Council of State believe that detailed information should be provided to vulnerable groups and will the central authorities finance this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1565	I take people's fear of wolves seriously. There is no doubt that many people in the areas of the country where the wolf currently has reviral areas feel fear. This is a very unfortunate consequence of the wolf’s re-establishment in Norway. The Ministry is working to improve this situation. The wolf belongs naturally in Norwegian fauna. Therefore, we must accept that part of a small southern Scandinavian tribe finds habitats in our country. Wolf poses a real risk to bup and dogs. In those cases where wolves have attacked humans, either the animal has been sick or humans have put the wolf in a situation where it has not been able to escape. Such cases occur very rarely — and fortunately — in experience. I have recently taken the initiative to get a comprehensive overview of the danger the wolf represents to people. This will include, inter alia: a study is carried out to identify current knowledge relevant to Norwegian conditions. In addition, the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research will present in the near future a report dealing with the fear of wolves. These research reports will provide us with a better basis for the strenuous effort to deal with the fear of large predators. I also want to work actively to provide correct information about the wolf and its lifestyle. This can make people better able to judge for themselves the basis of fear. I will also provide information both to the public and to vulnerable groups, such as: hunters, about how to deal with predators in nature. The Ministry of the Environment supports the Rovvilt research project and society, which will look at the relationship between nature and people. The Ministry has continued, among other things: promised an information project on large predators in the municipality of Stor-Elvdal. The results of this project could be used for educational purposes in other parts of the country. The work aimed at people's fear of the great predators is still only in the pit, but we hope and believe that fear of both wolves and other great predators will be reduced in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1582	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am glad that she will not contribute to this olive fruit being stamped as hysteria, and that she understands that it is not just fence projects and similar measures that need to be put in place, but that the information needs to be reinforced. She listed a number of projects in which the Directorate of Nature Management will be involved, so I expect that this will be met positively also in terms of financial resources for this business. The district council has dealt with the matter in the county council. It is expected that large-scale projects will be launched, and I expect that there will be a different definition of some of the measures mentioned by the Council of State in its overall overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1591	I agree that in the time to come, it is necessary to use resources from the state on information measures related to the fear of predators, and I believe that the budget for next year will provide us with a good basis for it once the Storting has dealt with it. Otherwise, I think dialogue is a key element in these information projects, and that is a starting point for several of the actions that are being undertaken. It must deal with them with expertise on predatory issues, and it must be based on the situation as experienced by people who are close to nature areas where predators live.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1601	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for the Environment: ‘The Council of State is aware of the dispute related to the protected houses of Kruse Gate No. 7 and 9 at Frogner, Oslo. Little Frogner Well has promoted a peace proposal to the Byantikvaren in Oslo, which the Byantikvaren will not deal with. The same resolution is also on the Riksantikvarn table. It has not been dealt with here either, probably because the case is also with the City Antiquities product. Will the Council of State ensure that the Riksantikvar is subject to the rescue proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1610	Kruse Gates 7 and 9 are not currently at peace, but are regulated as special areas for conservation under the Law on Planning and Building. In Kruse Gate 9, a residential area is regulated. I am aware of the existence of a peace proposal by Little Frogner Well at the Byantikvaren, and similar peace proposals have also been sent to the Riksantikvaren. It is the regional cultural memory management that is entitled to initially safeguard the interests of cultural memory protection and to prepare matters of peace for the Riksantik product. For Oslo, this is the City Antiquities product. Any safeguard decision shall be taken by the Riksantikvaren. Other instruments have been evaluated from a number of different teams to ensure cultural memory values in Krusesgate 7 and 9, among others. proposals for re-regulation, arrangements for conservation plans and proposals for expropriation. In order to advance the case, the Riksantikvaren has now taken an initiative to clarify which alternatives are most relevant, including compliance with the Cultural Memory Act. I therefore expect that the matter can now be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1619	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and find it very positive that such an initiative has been taken that she is making known. I believe that the current regulatory plan is contrary to what was the Ministry of the Environment's premise not to save these properties in 1986. I also see that the cultural environment is threatened, and that new buildings in the area will clearly impair the cultural heritage of the area and buildings and the experiences of the buildings and the environment around them as a coherent cultural environment. With what the Council of State has now prepared, I also hope that the matter will come in a constructive direction. It would be good if the final result were to protect the buildings – and I would like to add that in Oslo, too, the cultural activities that are there were well arranged and well maintained locally. In addition, it could be avoided that Selvaag put back with the blacks because you've now come into a mess in many ways, everyone would profit from it. When I asked this question to the Council of State, it was because there have been environmental protection ministers in many governments that have had the task of occasionally contributing to constructive traditions and solutions in Oslo. And it was on that basis that I also asked the question to the sitting Environment Minister, so that she could keep the positive line as her predecessors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1630	I just want to repeat that I perceive the initiative that the Riksantikvaren has now taken, as constructive in this matter, and will follow closely what is going to happen to it. If it is necessary, I will come back to further initiatives in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1638	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Three different price surveys for food have not clarified the stages of the food chain which have increased its margins, but it is agreed that the primary producers’ price cut has not reached the consumer. The food tax shall be reduced to 12 pst. from 1 July 2001. How will the Council of State ensure that VAT reduction benefits consumers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1647	I have focused on implementing measures to help reduce food prices in Norway. In the 2000 agricultural situation, the target prices were reduced to 900 million. kr. The budgetary agreement implies that the VAT on food should be reduced to 12 pst. from 1 July 2001 as an additional contribution to the achievement of reduced consumer prices. Through these measures, the Government wants to meet consumers’ demand for lower food prices and to recover the border trade, where the Norwegian value chain is currently losing large production volumes. In particular, there are two instruments in place by the authorities to contribute to the benefit of consumers: attention and good evidence of effective competition in the markets, so as to minimise the price quotations made by the different parties; It is a political prerequisite that reductions in the target price and VAT should benefit consumers. Operators in the food chain have also expressed clear willingness to contribute to this. In order to ensure this, it is important for authorities to be able to document what is happening and to monitor price developments at different stages of the value chain. Studies on price developments have been presented by several research institutions and are now continuing to work, among other things. with tools for continuous documentation of price formation and price development of food at different stages up to the consumer. Stakeholders have also promised to make their data available to enable such documentation. I assume that it actually happens. In the case of a reduced rate of VAT, this means that the final charge paid in the last subparagraph is halved. VAT reduction would therefore have an effect on food prices in a similar way as reduced petrol taxes would have on petrol prices, or, for that matter, the tobacco tax on tobacco prices. The system of documentation under development aims to cover the entire range of products covered by the VAT reduction. Through effective competition and clear evidence, the Government will contribute to the effective provision of lower prices to consumers, provided that the measures implemented and planned are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1670	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I know that the Minister of Agriculture is concerned with these issues, perhaps especially because he has given some promises at an earlier stage. In the current year, as far as I know, three different studies have shown that the price cuts that farmers have taken have not benefited consumers – that is actually the only thing I have seen them agree on. Which segments in the value chain have increased their margins, you disagree. So now the VAT on food is to be reduced from 1 July next year, and then very many consumers are concerned about – of course – that these cuts benefit consumers. We know that the Swedes reduced their VAT on groceries on 1 January 1996, and that there were several percentages that did not benefit consumers. Will the Council of State contribute to the central task of the Competition Authority in this picture, so that it is not possible to suspect that the various research institutions involved represent special interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1681	Let me first briefly say that we are now working on the results of the studies we have conducted. We have been told that the producer price has fallen, as the questioner points out correctly, we have been told that the wholesale price has fallen, i.e. the price of whole and half slaughter. But the price of the consumer has not fallen. That means that it's either on the cutting side or the processing side or in the trade you've taken increased margins, and now we've picked out that segment in the price formation and dig even further down. And if the president allows it, I'll say, as I've said outwardly, the reef is to be smoked out of this place. I hope that is a parliamentary expression. I also want to answer the questioner that we are digging further on this question. Otherwise, as far as the involvement of the Competition Authority is concerned, I choose to take it with me as an idea and a proposal when we are now considering how to establish VAT monitoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1688	For its part, the President will assume that the Minister of Agriculture has a rift within his field of competence, and cannot oppose the composition of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1695	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘In a report from the Security Food Alliance, it is demonstrated, from the point of view of the fishing industry, that there are no good reasons for the authorities’ ban on the use of wood in the food industry. Neither the Food Authority, the Health Authority nor the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health can tell us what the ban is based on. As is known, the use of three was an important recommendation in the forest report. What will the Council of State do to bring back traditional and environmentally friendly wood implements into practical use?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1704	From time to time, a discussion arises as to whether the use of wood may be hygienically better than the plastic material. The background for this is studies where it has been shown that bacteria survive less time on wood than on plastics. The results are attributed to the fact that some wood may contain bactericidal substances. This has been used by some to argue against the requirement that wood materials are normally not allowed in food businesses. This requirement is set out in several Directives of the EEA Agreement and has been implemented in particular: slaughterhouse rules of 18 February 1994 and poultry meat rules of 21 March 1995. Similar rules also exist for fish. Wood does not have the characteristics desired for surface use in food businesses. They are required to be smooth and easy to washable. Wood is quickly tiled, cracked and chopped, especially in areas where much water is used. The surface characteristics of establishments producing food are not specific to the EEA territory. The recommendation for smooth and easily washable surfaces has also been given by Codex Alimentarius, the UN organisation that produces international standards for food production. However, the provisions in force do not constitute an absolute obstacle to the use of wood in the food industry. With regard to the last part of the question, what can be done, I would like to point out that the Government launched on 1 July this year a five-year value creation programme for the use and processing of wood. One of the objectives of the programme is to contribute to the increased value-added and development of new products based on wood. The working group which examined the form and content of the programme pointed out in its report that, in the future, major investments will be made in the aquaculture industry in both land-based and sea-based installations, and that it should be appropriate to provide for wood to become a central material in the investments to be made and that wood-based products may appear as one of the most important accompanying products for Norway’s new main activity. In the direction of Nordic Wood, which is the name of a research programme funded by the Nordisk Industrifond, a joint Nordic research programme is under way that aims to document the usefulness of the tree in food-related matters, with particular focus on the fishing industry. Participants in the project from the Norwegian side are companies, Fisheries Research in Troms and Norsk Treteknis Institutt in Oslo. Preliminary results from practical trials show that wood has promising properties for use in the food industry. The use of wood in food businesses must, of course, be in line with the provisions of the EEA Agreement. In the future, the use of wood in the food industry, as well as in building materials and in accommodation and packaging contexts, will be an important part of the Value added programme, including: based on the results of that Nordic Wood project.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1715	I would like to thank you for your answer. The first part is, to put it mildly, surprising. Here it is said that wood does not have the characteristics you want and that wood is tiled, cracked and chopped. This is not in line with what professionals in the industry say, and it is not in line with a hundred-year-old experience, which can be demonstrated through all the wooden tools available on the farms. However, the next part of the answer is very good and is in sharp contradiction to the total denial of the characteristics of the tree we got first, so then we get to stick to the second part. I have an addition, and it is by reference to this Nordic Wood research project that goes specifically on fish: will the Council of State ensure that we in Norway get similar research also on agricultural food production, so that we can also get a different view on the use of wood, maybe?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1722	My impression is that the questioner and I really agree on what is being asked. I don't think my answer has to be interpreted there that I'm going to benefit from a negative description of the characteristics of the tree in this context. In Norway, we have a long tradition of using wood here, and we have good experience. But from others, there are critical comments for the use of wood. It is clear that so far the description of the others has been passed on by legislation, which makes it difficult for us today to use wood in the food industry. In order to meet that, I think it's important that we prove that our experience should be taken into account, and that it's the invading sport that makes us more woody into the food industry. And it is clear that if we do this in relation to fish, it should also be unproblematic and desirable that we also do it in relation to the agricultural industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1727	Bjørn Hernæs gets the floor for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1730	I would like to thank you for your loving attendance. I'll be very short. I fully agree with the Council of State's description that we agree on this matter. I put the first part of the answer deep into the drawer, and I base the rest of the follow-up on the second part of the answer plus what came out in my first supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1737	The President shall again recall what the President has done at the beginning of the meeting in respect of the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1743	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Vestfold is again affected by a case relating to the investigation of missing person. The procedures and working methods applicable to such cases have been requested in the past. The Ministry of Justice was to review the legislation and issue new guidelines. What guidelines do policy areas now have to deal with regarding the follow-up to the missing person notification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1752	Annually, there is a notification to the police of approx. 3 000 missing persons. In 1999, a total of 3,054 such cases were recorded, compared with 2,824 in 1998. However, the vast majority of those who are reported missing will be rehabilitated shortly, with or without the assistance of the police. In many cases, the messages will be about people in mental imbalances or crisis, older people or people with families in disintegration. Most cases involving people under the age of 20 concern young people who, in different ways, escape from home. It is a recurring feature that the person who is reported missing often disappears at his own request. Of the approx. 3 000 annual reports to the missing person police are a very small number of cases in which the missing person does not come to an end within a reasonable time, and which are, in fact, missing. It is only exceptional that the disappearance is caused by criminal offences, but it is nevertheless important that police districts also consider and investigate the case as a possible criminal case as early as possible. Many missing messages have such a content that the police need to investigate immediately. If you have information from the beginning that gives cause for immediate investigation, this will and will be done, for example where a person is missing in a particular area. In cases requiring immediate investigation, it will be necessary to obtain as much information as possible about the missing person, especially in the initial phase. In order to have a consistent and targeted investigation, it may also be important to contact public agencies that have had contact with the missing person. However, I would remind you that the prosecution authority is responsible for any investigation with the national lawyer as the chief of staff. The Advocate General has stated that he intends to give details, including mention of assistance from Kripos, in his 2001 Round of Priorities. In this connection, there is also contact between Kripos and the national lawyer. Exploration practices concerning missing persons are currently somewhat different and varied within the individual police districts. There are circulars from the State Attorney and the Maritime Directorate, but the key guidelines are few and partly in time. It is therefore important that the national lawyer now intends to include detailed guidelines in his next Roundtable of priorities. For the police, a computerized criminal justice system has been developed, which this year has been deployed and used in all police districts. The 'Mild person notification' form is now available in the computer system. Proposals have also been made for new forms, procedures and supporting documents for the handling, reporting and investigation of such cases. Quality assurance and evaluation of these proposals will now be carried out with a view to introducing the proposals into the police handling system. This will provide a more consistent practice in police districts and better follow-up of cases. This too will be done in the necessary consultation of the national lawyer. Persons who are reported missing abroad or who are believed to have travelled abroad from Norway raise particular issues. Kripos and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will provide assistance in these cases for the part of the work of the Norwegian authorities. In principle, the police in the place where an suspected crime has been committed are responsible for any investigation. Normally it'll be the police at the missing one's last known residence. When missing abroad, Norwegian police under normal international law do not have access to investigations in the form of official acts in that country. However, the Norwegian police can assist the country's police with investigations in this country. Norwegian police may also assist in investigations in the country concerned, where appropriate. However, it assumes that the competent authorities of the country have agreed to the presence of the Norwegian police. According to Norwegian practice, all cooperation between Norwegian and foreign police authorities is usually communicated via Kripos. A clarification in such cases will often depend on Norwegian police initiative and commitment. This is not least because the police in the country in question lack the necessary knowledge of the missing person. I am aware that questions have been raised about the Norwegian police showing the necessary activity in this type of case. The Ministry of Justice has raised the question with the State Attorney and is now working to improve current procedures. Persons missing from Norwegian ships engaged on international voyages include relatively few cases per year. years, but the evaluation by the police may be difficult and complex, as this type of case requires special insight and follow-up. In cooperation with the national lawyer, work is now under way to centralise this type of issue into one police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1767	I thank you for the answer, which was complementary and good in the way that I understand that things are done, and that it is always taken to clarify this. For it had already been a long time since March 1996, when that working group was appointed to assess investigation practices both nationally and internationally in the context of missing person notification. There are several people who are asking for this and how it works, because in a state of law, we expect the police to do what they can to solve disappearances. Although few of the 3,000 were mentioned here, it is important for them. The family is left with a feeling that they have not come to the bottom of the matter. Often the media has to write about it, or a private investigator has to be involved. And it can't be that it's only when you get ahead of it. I would like to ask about the status of these guidelines. It must be important that these are put into action, and that relatives are also included in this, not only that there are fine guidelines on the paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1774	I can confirm, as the representative Scarbøvik summed it up, that there has been a further move to follow up the proposals made by that working group in 1997. I explained that in my reply. What is the idea is that what is given by guidelines will be in the form of circulars. And in that case, it is simply an instruction that is binding on those who receive it. The order of precedence of the Advocate General is an instruction to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the police districts and thus binding on them. With regard to the part of incorporating things into the police system, it is also effective, because it means that when you sit as a police officer and work on the screen, the procedures you have to follow in connection with registration in the necessary forms will automatically appear on the screen. I believe that when we get these things right, it will be reassuring. Otherwise, I fully agree with the representative Scarbøvik that the relatives must be kept constantly informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1787	I'd like to follow up, because it's very tragic for many people how they experience this. I'm glad to hear that now, for example. a thorough job is done in Curacao in connection with the well-known Signe case. But it's been over a year since Signe got away. In foreign affairs, there is a need for special expertise, which the Minister of Justice was also involved in, and it cannot be expected that each police chamber will hold this. How would it be to raise such issues, for example: in a group of experts in Kripos, so that those who have this expertise can move forward immediately, because the time aspect is important? Cooperation between countries is also crucial, so that you do not sit on each other and wait for each other. Maybe you've been too careful in such cases? How does the Minister of Justice evaluate this exactly?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1800	The need for special expertise is precisely the reason why work is being done with a view to assigning responsibility for foreign affairs to one police district. I have to remind you that Kripos is not a part of the prosecution authority today, so you will always have to have the prosecution authority involved in an investigation. Therefore, it is important to add responsibility to one police district. Kripos is based on an aid concept, so that Kripos comes to the rescue when asked for help. Kripos also has a position in all international cooperation, so it is absolutely necessary that Kripos be brought into international affairs. But precisely the guidelines and arrangements for the link between the police district that is likely to be responsible for these matters, and Kripos, are one of the reasons why the Riksadvokat and Kripos are now in contact to clarify how we can make this as effective as possible for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1812	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The leadership of Ullersmo County Prison, in its letter of 3 March 2000, submitted to the Ministry a proposal to commit to a permanent imam in order, inter alia, to better address the needs of Muslims for religious purposes. A new letter of 30 October 2000 informs the Ministry that the prison has qualified and is currently applying for such a post. Will the Council of State, perhaps in cooperation with the Minister of Church, Education and Research, meet the needs of the prison as early as the current year, so that the scheme can be implemented as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1821	I see the importance of giving all prisoners in Norwegian prisons the opportunity to practice their own religion, and of giving them access to social services. This is a fundamental principle enshrined in the current prison law and is also reflected in the St.meld. No 27 for 1997-98 on criminal law and the proposal for a new penal code. In the larger prisons, the responsibility of the prison services lies with the coordination of the cooperation between the clergy and the leaders of religious communities other than the Norwegian Church. This seems to work satisfactorily in practice, and the Ministry of Justice has not received any complaints that some beliefs are being excluded. The responsibility for prison services in Norwegian prisons was formerly under the Ministry of Justice, but was transferred from 1 January 2000 to the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. I would therefore like to raise the question with the Minister of Church, Education and Research. However, I would like to inform you that the prison directors at each institution have always the full opportunity to prioritise their resources used for measures that promote the strengthening of religious practice by foreign prisoners, for example. by inviting representatives from other religious communities when the need arises.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1832	Sir. Kristiansen! – Corrigendum: Mr. Marthinsen! The President regrets that he was seduced by Mr. The middle name of Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1835	It's not the first time anyone's done it, President. But the name is not ashamed of anyone. At least I realized that I got the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1840	That's right, sir. Marthinsen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1843	Thank you. I thank the Council of State for the answer, which probably contained only one point that could be interpreted in terms of something that could be positive, and that is that the Council of State will take this up with the Minister of Church, Education and Research. In addition, there was no answer to what I asked for. I would like to stress that this is not just about ensuring the exercise of religion and access to social services. In this context, it is another aspect that is very important from the point of view of criminal law, namely to improve the possibility of rehabilitating the prisoner to a crime-free life. And that's what the prison priest says in a letter dated August 29th this year. I expect the Council of State is aware of the content of this letter, which says that by getting a regular follow-up of an imam, the Justice Department will also be able to ensure a better relationship with the prisoner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1852	Does the Council of State Harlem want the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1855	I have learned that it is rude not to answer. I do not disagree with any of the representatives of Marthinsen that it is important to be able to use their faith in a work for rehabilitation, and that it is therefore important that, in any case, you can have such access, even when you are in prison. So when my answer is to deal with this with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, it's because the prison service is now under the minister of church, education and research. There are also budgetary resources. It is therefore necessary to cooperate with this department in order to re-disposal funds if appropriate, if that is the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1862	I just wanted to make it quite brief that I think it is important when the Minister of Justice makes contact with the Minister of the Church in this context, that the Minister then points out not only the exercise of religion but also the judicial aspects of this matter. It seems to me to be very important to find out what is essential in terms of the exercise of religion and the rehabilitation of the prisoner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1870	I will be asked to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Arendal police districts have a most alarming development in the area of youth and drug abuse. Today, the Arendal Police Chamber has a drug section of 4 people on a full-time basis. In relation to the drug situation, these human resources are far from sufficient. A minimum extension of the drug section from 4 to 6 posts will be very important for the police’s ability to tackle the significant and rapidly increasing drug problem of Arendal. How do the Council of State assess this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1879	Unfortunately, increasing drug use among young people seems to have become a serious trend across most of the world — including in Norway. Police action against drug crime must therefore be given high priority both in terms of prevention and criminal proceedings. This is clearly communicated in the Ministry of Justice’s guidance documents to the police districts and in other ways as well as from the Rikadvokat. The key objectives are to guide the planning of police officers. However, it is assumed that the targets are formulated locally and that targets with a background are set in local circumstances. This planning, according to key priorities, has been carried out in the 2001 Arendal Police District Action Plan, which specifically and comprehensively addresses the fight against drug problems. The police district has more than previously integrated the overall fight against drugs into the ordinary order service. This has resulted in a very positive effect that is made visible, among others. by increasing the number of drug seizures and reports of drug law violations in the police district. As drug crime is rarely reported by others other than the control bodies themselves, the statistics reflect relatively well the use of resources by the police and customs in relation to this type of crime. In addition, in its business plan, the district has increased its focus on increasing the regular uniformity of order to be part of the prevention of drugs. The four current ‘special drug positions’ located at the Arendal Police Station work across districts. Moving responsibility for control of user environments and prevention efforts more towards the uniformed force will enable these ‘specialist researchers’ to give greater priority to the response to the more serious drug offences. In addition, the Arendal Police District added three new posts to the revised national budget in the current year. The Ministry of Justice attaches great importance to the prevention of youth and drugs. The main strategy is, on the one hand, an active effort to prevent new groups of young people from being recruited into these environments, and, on the other hand, drug crime, often organised crime, is also being pursued by effective means to hit the backers. The police have now received significantly better tools to combat such crime. I mention here briefly new rules on investigation methods and changed rules to better target the financial benefits of such criminal acts. I also expect that the coordination of total resources in the fight against crime can be improved also through the launch of the Police Directorate on 1 January 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1894	I thank the Council of State for the answer she gave, and I appreciate your understanding of the alarming drug situation in Arendal and the problems facing the police. It is a headline in today’s Agderpost that Arendal ‘flies over by drugs’. The head of the drug section today says that it goes wrong, the arrows point straight to heaven, and drugs have become a problem of dimensions in this city. Today, in relation to the population, Norway has the highest rate of overdose deaths in Europe. Heroin use has doubled in ten years, the number of drugs has doubled five times in ten years, and heroin prices have fallen to one third of what they were a few years ago. And more and more young people now flirt with drugs. The situation is now out of control, and I hope that the Council of State does not object to the creation, for example. a separate independent drug commission, which can go widely through Norwegian drug policy and analyse all aspects in order to arrive at a better understanding of this wide-ranging problem among politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1903	It is true, as Andersen’s representative says, that drug use in Norway is increasing and that we have new drugs. All indications suggest that there is more organised crime and much more drug-related reports than before. As I also said in my first answer, the number of cases makes it difficult to say something about how the increase in drug abuse is, precisely because no particular drug is detected without the police themselves doing it. Often the more resources the police put in, the more reports and more information they get. When the police make an effort, it immediately looks as if there's a lot more crime like that than it was before, even though it might be because they just have higher efforts in this area. And that's some of what's happened in Arendal. However, there is no doubt that Arendal has a higher number of registered drug offences per year. 1 000 inhabitants than the national average. I am not against any proposals that can help improve drug crime, but before I jump on the proposal for an independent and comprehensive drug commission, I am dependent on discussing the content more closely and what should be the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1912	I thank you for that answer. I'd rather have seen when it was Arendal, that the Council of State had followed this a little more concretely up and said that she should do what she could to help, since, after all, she understood that there were serious issues about drugs in Arendal. We have younger users, new drugs, more users, cheaper drugs and increased availability, which is not least a major danger. The Council of State also stated in its response that international drug syndicates contribute to the substantial influx of drugs into Norway and prices fall. It increases accessibility. Finally, I would like to receive an answer to the following: Is the Council of State going to do something special to curb the flood of drugs to Norway? It's actually a little bit where one of the big problems lies, with low prices and great availability.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1921	Drug crime challenges have not arisen in recent weeks, to put it that way. This is why the Ministry of Justice and the police have been constantly working on what can be done to combat drug crime. Both new methods of investigation and new sources of detention are examples of this. Another example is the establishment of the Council for Organised Crime, which is formally established and in progress and will also be linked to the new Police Directorate. The establishment of the Police Directorate is in itself really justified in a better fight against, among other things. organised crime where drugs are an important instrument. So it's not like I have today a new measure that I'm going to present. In that case, I would have brought it back several weeks ago. However, there is constant attention and the fight against drug crime, and thanks are given to any proposals that are good, which can contribute further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1931	The allocation of funds for the protection of children from the county to the municipalities is based on the number of children who have relief measures, not on the number of people who are away from home. The costs of out-of-home activities are by far the most expensive and lead to high costs, especially for large urban municipalities. Is the awarded practice in line with the legislation, or should practices be changed?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1938	The government proposes to increase the proportion of the local government’s use of county child protection measures from NOK 11000 per year. Children per day from 1 January 2001 until 22 000 kroner. In the case of young people receiving treatment under the MST project – multisystemic therapy – and asylum seekers seeking unauthorised refugees, the municipal abstinence is maintained at NOK 11,000 per year. Children per day months. I refer you to the municipal economic proposition and to the state budget. The reasons why the Government wants an increase in municipal ownership include: that the Central Association of Municipalities has addressed to the Ministry on several occasions the need to increase the proportion of municipalities in county child protection measures. These measures have seen a significant increase in costs in recent years and are currently on average more than DKK 800000 per year. the amount of space per person; years. I also believe that it is important to stimulate local solutions where this is right, and raising the rate can just support such developments. In order to determine the reduction in State transfers to county municipalities, the Ministry has chosen to base the number of children and young people per year. On 31 December 1999, there were institutions, foster homes, bookshelves or the like. For the measures, the county councils cover the bulk of the costs, i.e.: in addition to the specificity of the municipalities. Statistics of the Central Statistical Office per On 31 December 1999 it appeared that 2,942 children were registered with such child protection measures on 31 December. Reinforced foster homes are the only measures that can cost less than NOK 22 000 per year. month, which is the new interest rate. This will be everything from NOK 12 000 to NOK 13 000 per day. months. In the calculation, we have therefore approximated the number of children and young people from 2,942 to 2,600 to correct for the cost of some of these measures to be less than NOK 22000 per person. months. The change is estimated to give an additional cost to the municipalities of approx. 343.2 million. kr. This is the amount to be deducted from the State transfers to the county and transferred to the municipalities. In order to simplify the calculation of the distribution of the reduction between municipalities, the total number of children and young people who were under care per year has been taken into account. 31 December 1999 in each State. This figure also includes ordinary foster homes. The municipal distribution is based on the territorial framework and is proportionally distributed to the municipalities by the number of inhabitants from 0 to 17 in each municipality. As the funds have been invested in the transitional system of the income system, this breakdown is added to the 80 pst. weight, adding 20 pst. emphasis on the cost key of the income system in 2001. Both the number of children, children in institutions and children under care in each municipality will change slightly from year to year. This is also why it is impossible to transfer so much funds between municipalities and county municipalities without some thinking that they are getting too little. So I'm going to try to move into the specific question that the representative is asking, but I think it was right to explain a little about the scheme itself. We clearly see that there are some municipalities that may have come out unlucky, because the percentage distribution of child protection clients does not always follow the percentage distribution of children. I also have to say that it can be difficult to get this exactly even millimeter-rightness. It is difficult to imagine a change for the next year that will not mean that a good part of the municipalities will get less than they have so far been suggested. I look very seriously at the examples we have received from part of our larger municipalities. I've asked for a review of these things in the department. But I think, if we are realistic, that any changes will only take effect from 2002, because we have come so far into the year. But I absolutely share the representative's concern about how this seems to turn out. That is why I am asking for a review of it, and I can also inform the representative of the result at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1959	I would like to thank the Council of State for a positive response. I share the points of view that were set out and that are the background for the change of the scheme. What's the problem now is that some of those who have the biggest problems are getting worse, and that it's necessary to look at it. It must be a dialogue and an interaction with the city municipalities. I felt that the Council expressed its willingness to do so. I know a case from Trondheim, and there's several million dollars. This means that the lack of funds can quickly affect some of the weakest children. So I look positive at the answer and look forward to getting further feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1964	I share the views of the representative Kvassheim and can promise that we will come back with a proper review of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1972	I allow myself to ask the following questions: «When a lifebreak is a fact, and there are children inside the picture, we know that it is important to make good agreements that also replace the child. Civil and economic conditions, including contribution and social conditions, can in practice play a role in parents’ perception of the solution that should be chosen. What will the Council of State do to ensure that children get the best possible contact with both parents after a break in life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e1981	The representative of Molvær Grimstad addresses a very important issue, which I am very concerned about. My starting point is two-part. Children should suffer as much as possible from a conflict between their parents. Then we must help couples to resolve their conflicts as best they can without the children being dragged in. I believe that children should have good contact with both parents even after a break in life. Then we have to look at all the externalities that prevent such a development, and we have to look at what can support such a development. I get a lot of daily enquiries from individuals who tell me about their life situation and how the legislation works in their case. Many have proposals for regulatory changes or views on current legislation. I think there are many difficult balances in these matters. It is not easy to regulate family conflicts by means of legislation. No family is the same, and what fits nicely in one family can be bad for another. The interests of children and parents need not coincide, and often it may be difficult for parents to separate their own interests from those of children. In particular, I think there are two principles in the Children's Act that it is worth highlighting. It is the principle of the best of the child and the principle that parents have a freedom of contract. I believe it is important to stress that it is the parents who are experts on their own children and that it is they – possibly with public guidance – who will decide for themselves how to organise their family life after a break in life. In the event of a breakup, all married parents with children under the age of 16 must meet for mediation, while the cohabitant is offered mediation. Here they get help from family brokers to reach agreements on parental responsibility, where children will live permanently and together. According to Møreforskning, 81 pst. of the mediation of an agreement on parental responsibility, day-to-day care and association. 92 pst. compulsory mediation under the marriage law leads to an agreement. Many also agree before they come to mediation. The parents are offered up to four hours of mercenaries, and it is free of charge for them. I think it is important to stress that most of the parents handle their life crimes in a proper and proper way, without letting their adult conflict affect the children. These are the very sad fates we often read about in the media. They may not be representative of most people who experience a broken life. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't take lessons from these fates and consider how we can improve the system so that these too can get out better. Today's children's law is, in principle, gender neutral. We know, however, that a thousand-year-old gender role pattern links mother to care and father to the carer’s role, both in life and after a breakup. Fortunately, we see an incipient change in this pattern. A new generation of fathers take more care of their children than before. These fathers also want to have more care for their children after a possible breakup. It's a development we have to support. If fathers take greater responsibility for their children after a break in life, the economic – and not least the social – pressure on single mothers will also be reduced. In addition, I am concerned that some parents feel innocent today when the person caring for the child takes the child with him and travels far away without the other party having any opportunity to influence this. For this reason, I would like to propose changes to the Children's Act which, to a greater extent than at present, support under father as a caregiver, and which look at the issue of moving and associating with new eyes. It is no secret either that I think the idea of a divided residence as a starting point after a breakup has a lot to do. However, there may be different ways to solve this, and I will, as I said, come back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate form. I am aware that the financial support schemes intended to help single-parents after a break in life are not always adapted to shared care solutions. The aim should be to ensure that parents’ right to financial support is proportionate in relation to their parents’ choice of care solution. On this basis, I have taken an initiative towards the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and have set up a working group to assess the benefits of shared residence in relation to the benefits of single dependants and the benefits of parents with several children who choose to share the sibling flock. In a short time, I would like to propose new rules for child contributions, which I believe will be much more timely, and would encourage maximum parental contact for children who do not live with both their parents. Among other things, the extent of co-operation between the children and the contributor will be important in determining contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2005	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with a lot of what she outlined in her answer. These are demanding challenges, and it is important to audit children’s eloquence. It seems that the Christian People's Party is important. We've gone pretty deep into this problem. I was quite surprised when I read an interview with the Minister for Children and Family in «The Journal 2 Parents» No. 1, 2 June 2000. She was asked about this issue when it comes to the modernisation of Norwegian child law, and was asked if there are any dividing lines that go between party groupings, for example. when this is the case. Governments respond to the following: ‘In the case of party-political dividing lines, this goes largely between the KrF and the other batches. KRF has focused on the core family and does not take inwards the reality of the day. None of us want a divorce, but there is. Look at how many children live with just one of their parents. It's a reality we can't stand outside." [[The President clubs.]] - I'm not coming. I'm actually shocked that a government council is speaking this way. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2017	The President must ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2020	I want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for the change they have made in family policy these past weeks. We are aware that there has been a party process of new program in the Christian People's Party, and the Norwegian people now know the content of it. There we see quite new ideas from the Christian People's Party, which have not been on the political agenda to the extent that they have done these past weeks. It has been with respect to report maybe not just a Christian People's Party who have spoken father's role and father's participation in children's lives after a breakup. At least they have not been so high on the agenda in the public debate and have expressed their views in the way in which one has actually had the full opportunity. But I am very pleased with the signals we see from the Christian People's Party, and believe that when we present the concrete proposals, it can provide good solutions in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2027	The President will again take note of requests from the President to confine himself to one additional question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2030	It is true that there has been a lot of debate and focus on the Christian People's Party's proposals lately, but it is not new that we are concerned about the child's situation after divorce. When children's Elva was last treated, I actually believe that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party were in charge of the changes that happened then. When we were in government, the impending Minister for Children and Family had a review of the rules of contributions, also with the aim of reducing conflicts and making them fairer. So we've been concerned about the children's situation and the father's situation before, too, but the Labour Party has tended to present us as a party that hasn't been concerned about it. I will strongly reject that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2037	I just have to say that I am very pleased with the attitude that the Christian People's Party takes on these questions, and sees no reason to go into a dispute with the representative Molvær Grimstad about this. I meet with pleasure the treatment of both child law and the rules of contribution after this!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2042	The President understands it so that there will be further debates in Hoffsvejen!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2048	It is always difficult to limit the time when we have a debate on family policy, but I allowed myself to ask a new question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘Breath of life affects many children. Over half of the couples divorced in 1999 had children under the age of 18. It was a total of 9 000 children. In addition, they came from the children who had cohabiting parents. Against this background, the need for joint action appeared to be high. It seems that it has become more widely accepted to seek help also for problems related to the family's internal life, before the problems have become too big. What will the State Council do to meet the need to prevent and provide help when problems arise?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2057	First, I have to allow myself to say that I like to discuss child and family policies very well with the representative Molvær Grimstad, and I hope that she keeps her commitment. The Ministry of Children and the Family manages two types of actions that are directly designed to provide help and support for adult life, and are therefore also important instruments for creating good growth conditions for children. One is family protection, which provides treatment and advice to families in difficulties, crises or conflicts. It is important that families in crisis receive advice and help quickly. The second is co-operation that helps communication and interaction to prevent problems from occurring. Together, these measures provide families with the opportunity to seek help in different situations in society. I regard these measures as important family policy instruments and will focus on developing them and adapting them to current needs as best I can. Family protection is, as the representative Molvær Grimstad will be familiar with, now a statutory service managed by the county municipalities. I believe that the department's main task is to ensure that the professional development of family protection is continued. Work is in progress on the development of competence for the whole service and will continue next year. I see it as important to facilitate that family protection can at any time be up-to-date with new treatment methods, that offices are able to address the challenges facing new family patterns and new families, and that they have good competence in children. This will be a fundamental prerequisite for family protection to meet the needs of today’s families. It is important to clarify that the family pattern has changed, that the pattern of family protection has changed, and that family protection offices have to take this into account, among others. being an offer also to gay families. In the case of community action, it is right that the representative Molvær Grimstad points out that there has gradually been a greater acceptance to seek help for problems in society. At the same time, much new knowledge has emerged in the field in recent years, and the understanding that life can be learned is now spreading in more and more new environments. I think this is a positive development, and I am particularly concerned that the opportunities that lie in this are going to benefit the weakest. The government wants to target the use of funds accordingly. When allocating funds, we will give priority to the families with the greatest needs, and we will also focus on development that can make new knowledge available and strengthen the professional quality of life's work. In other words, there is a point in targeting measures to make them better, and it has not been given that resource-intensive families are offered a life course funded by the public. The Ministry further believes that joint action should be seen in the context of other prevention measures, in particular parental guidance. We have therefore proposed to pool funds for co-operation and parental guidance into one budget line. As part of this, we'll look especially at the role of father. This is part of the effort to make the best possible possible possible for an overall effort in the prevention of family work, which we believe is an important prerequisite for providing adequate help and support to today’s families.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2074	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I agree that good professional development is important both in the field of family protection and in the field of lifelong learning. The Labour Party has had a tendency every year to cut off the funds allocated to community action. It also happened in connection with next year's budget, and we have through the conciliation got to an increase. Now this shouldn't be a budget debate, but once upon a time, the Labour Party is attacking these funds. That's why I've been wondering what kind of basic maintenance the Labour Party has to run. We often get that perception of the way the Labour Party refers to the Christian People's Party, that running prevention is moralizing, but according to what the Council of State says here, it seems she's busy preventing. By preventing one can also be involved in and prevent a break in life, and it is always harder and more conflicty to repair than to prevent. For the benefit of all children who experience this, it is important. In the future, will the Council of State continue to deprioritise co-operation, after we have once again received an increase in the number of posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2081	If the representative Molvær Grimstad listened to my rather thorough answer – if I dare say so – she heard that I was quite clearly expressing what my basic attitude to this was. There is no doubt that the prevention work is important and absolutely necessary, and I think it is important that we as a society deploy resources before the damage occurs. Through targeting grants and coordination of community measures and parental guidance, our opinion was that we were able to maintain a good offer for these groups. We have understood that the central parties are in favour of such an objective and coordination, but that one wants a slightly larger amount set aside for this than what we have done in our proposal. Then one can just point to what one agreed on in the budget agreement, and that leads to a somewhat more liberal framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2089	I have this question to the Minister for Children and Family: ‘More municipalities are now showing great creativity to accommodate more children in kindergartens. In Bergen, it is proposed to meet the need by including more children in the departments. Five additional children are suggested in the early childhood wards and six in the larger children’s wards. Do the Council of State agree that such measures will undermine the objective of better quality in kindergartens, and what initiatives will the Council of State take to enhance quality and educational content in kindergartens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2098	I believe the representative Valle and I agree that kindergarten is an important offer for children. We may also agree that we need more kindergartens, so that anyone who wants them can have kindergartens, that kindergartens have good quality and professional content, that both care and pedagogics, that kindergartens are flexible, and that costs are affordable for most people. The size is related to the treatment of St.meld. No 27 for 1999-2000, Kindergarten for the benefit of children and parents, decided that the objective of full coverage of kindergartens should be achieved in 2003. In the Government's 2001 budget proposal, we propose that 6,000 new posts be built next year. In addition to building new kindergartens, existing kindergartens need to be exploited in a much better way. It is therefore important that all kindergarten owners, public and private, show ‘great creativity’ to use the representative Valle’s own words. I have no information that Bergen violates the provisions of the law and regulations to ensure the quality of children in kindergarten. Law on kindergartens regulates staffing requirements. The Barnhagegesetz states that pedagogical leaders shall be trained as pre-school teachers and that, as a whole, pedagogical staff in kindergarten must be sufficient to enable the staff to carry out an adequate pedagogical activity.’ The regulation states that ‘there shall be one pedagogical manager per year. 14-18 children when children are over three years of age and one pedagogical director per year. 7-9 children when children are under three years of age and their daily lives exceed six hours. This means that increased consumption of children does not necessarily impair quality, provided that the provisions of the law are complied with. The provisions of the Kindergarten Act are important in order to ensure a good kindergarten for children. It is the responsibility of the municipality to supervise compliance with the provisions of the law. In the context of the treatment of the growing up of kindergartens, Stortinget endorsed a three-year quality approach in the kindergarten sector between 2001 and 2003. We have formulated three main areas of action: kindergarten for all children, accessible kindergartens and a competent staff. Through this effort, we want to strengthen and further develop the responsibilities of the municipality as a nursery authority in order to improve the quality of the nursery. In the design of the good kindergarten, and in order to achieve the goal of offering to anyone who wants it, I assume that the municipalities and the private kindergarten owners provide offers to more children, and that they are systematically working to maintain and further develop the quality for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2111	I thank you for your answer. It shows that the Council of State has a burning commitment to getting more and better kindergartens. That's what she's supposed to have! I also assume that she agrees that there is a connection between the crew and the area. You may not want to break the rules in Bergen, but at least they will go to the outer edge. In this respect, I would like to point out an OECD report which criticised us for the fact that we have too little requirements for staffing. So I wonder if the Council of State will consider whether we should not tighten the regulation in this respect. And what will the Council of State do if it turns out that municipalities are now pushing and pushing the regulation – and creativity – to bring in more kids? So in Bergen there are 900 seats, while there are only two kindergartens to be built. And then it might have something to do with community economics. I also want to challenge her to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2120	There is no doubt that the kindergarten sector in Norway can be much better. I believe that the Stortinget, through its treatment of the big message recently, has just laid an important foundation and given a political tool that we on the Government side have to follow up. And then it will be important that municipalities and private nursery owners follow this up. It's also true, as Mr Ågot Valle says, that the OECD has pointed out that there are some points we can get better at. And I have the ambition that we'll be able to get a boost for this sector. It is also right to say that in Norway we have supervisory authorities to ensure that the Kindergarten Act is complied with. And then it is important that the supervisory authorities, when they discover illegal or irresponsible conditions in a kindergarten, have to make this happen and that there is to be a burden. But in order to have the opportunity to respond, you depend entirely on the state being informed of illegal relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2129	I thank you again for the answer and was satisfied with it, but I was not very pleased that she did not comment on my challenge with regard to the local economy. For there are also studies showing that, where municipalities have high free incomes, they also have many kindergartens, and they spend a lot on ensuring the quality of kindergartens. The Ministry of Finance has informed us that the municipalities are missing NOK 1.3 billion in free income in order to satisfy their part of the requirement by providing 30 pst. of the operating costs. I can't see that it's been put into next year's government budget at all – without this going to be a budget debate. But I will again challenge the Council of State to see if Bergen is now proposing a ‘crowding’ of children in kindergartens, may have something to do with poor municipal economy. Because it's not her party traps that priority wrong here, is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2136	There is no doubt that a bad local economy will be decisive no matter what field we are talking about, but there is no doubt that this government has actually invested quite high amounts in the local government sector, which the previous government did not to the same extent. Then, of course, there's a discussion about whether this amount is high enough for the local government sector. I would like to point out what the Storting has said in its attitude to the nursery service, and it is precisely that the state funds should be earmarked until this sector is fully developed. It has given its consent to a majority of the parties on the Stortinget. What the Storting has also asked for is to get back a case of our own when we arrive in 2003, in order to have the opportunity to re-assess possible instruments. And I have to say that I fully support the view that the Storting here has expressed. It would be impractical to remove this designation before the sector is fully developed, and that is in so far as the Storting has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2146	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research. ‘Hetland University wants to provide an education offer in general subjects where education in VK1 is added to England. Agreements have been concluded with colleges in England, but there is a lack of clarification on the right of support in the State Loan Fund for Education. Despite repeated enquiries, the school has not yet received an answer to the application. This offer is addressed to students seeking a stronger international dimension in education. Will the Council of State give the school a positive answer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2155	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2160	It is nice to have short questions and short answers. The President appreciates it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2163	I can then be correspondingly brief and say that I am very satisfied with an accurate and unambiguous answer to this application. But still an additional question, and that is: why was it necessary to use the Questionnaire to ask for an application that has been in the department for so long? Will the Council of State ensure that the procedures in the department are such that, when they are approached in similar cases, the schools receive an answer to the application they submit?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2168	It would not have been necessary at all to use the questionnaire for that question. The answer could also be obtained by telephone to the department. Of course, I'll make sure that the routines we have are followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2176	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «I St.meld. No 64 it was opened for the sale of precincts. [[1984-85]] In 15 years, the state has sold 97 out of a total of 190 precincts. Today, 40 farms are for sale assessment, and about 20 are for sale. This shows that the process has taken a long time, to annoy potential buyers. Will the Council of State contribute to the continuation of the sale?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2185	The process of selling nurseries has taken longer than most people imagined when St.meld No. 64 for 1984-85 was dealt with in Stortinget. Prestegård sales cannot be easily compared with other sales of agricultural property. The reason why sales take a long time is often outside the department. There are 13 hearing bodies to give an opinion, where church bodies, municipalities, protection authorities, agricultural authorities can be cited as examples. There are, in particular, local authorities' interests in the property that it takes time to clarify, as the properties are often centrally located and there may be issues of re-adjustment of land for other purposes before sale can be realised. A very important question is also to clarify relationships around the priesthood. Where appropriate, it shall be maintained as a future residence for service. Of the 189 agricultural properties to be sold, 98 properties are sold so far. In addition, 33 properties that take special care of the pastor’s history are retained in the possession of the Information Society’s fund. This means that 131 properties have been finalised, and all of these have been subject to a comprehensive and thorough assessment. For the last 20 properties that have not yet been assessed, the aim is to start the sales process during 2001. Of the nearly 40 properties in the process, there is a significant number approaching closure. I will help to ensure that the procedure is effective in the ministry, while it is important that all bodies dealing with these matters contribute to the swiftest possible treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2198	I thank the Council of State for the answer, where the Council of State said he would contribute to the shortest possible duration of proceedings. It is true that many hearing bodies are required to give an opinion and that the sale of a pastry shop is somewhat more complicated than other sales. But in the case of such examples that we could read about in the Nation on November 16, this year, where a buyer has been waiting for approx. Nine years, one must say that it is too long, and no one will profit from this, either owner, tenant, buyer or society around. Once again: I am satisfied with the answer from the Council of State where he promises to follow up on the matters that are being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2208	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The planning for next year’s Russian celebration is under way in the various schools. It has previously been informed by the Council of State that it is also working on this matter in the Department. Proposals have been made for plans by resource people with a long experience of Russian work, including at Horten secondary school. How will the Ministry follow up on this work so that next year’s raisin coal can be benefited?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2217	I refer to my reply on 16 June 2000 to the Scarbøvik representative's question on 9 June for a written answer, in which, on the basis of a negative reference in the press of this year's Russian celebration, it was asked what the ministry can do to change the positive direction of this celebration. In the answer I informed that we are in the process of a broader discussion of different aspects of being a Russian, and where it is not only seen at the Russian celebration itself, but also on how to fit it into a reasonable exploitation of the last part of the school year in higher education. The year’s Russian celebration also showed many examples of celebrations in positive forms, which appear primarily to depend on good cooperation between the school’s management and the Russians on how to celebrate. This requires understanding from the school’s management that the Russian needs to celebrate the end of 12 years of schooling, while the Russian understands that the celebration can take place properly. The Russian Federation should be seen in the context of the exploitation of the last part of the school year, which has been addressed with both teacher organisations and the Student Organisation. I also want to see the exploitation of the last part of the school year in connection with the ongoing discussions with teacher organisations on an action plan to simplify the contract work. The task will be to communicate the attitudes underlying such good cooperation between a school’s management and the Russian language to all secondary schools. I intend to send a circular to the county councils and all secondary schools, pointing out the conditions to which emphasis should be placed at each school when planning and implementing the Russian celebration. It is assessed to include circular examples from schools on plans for the implementation of positive forms of Russian celebration, e.g. from Horten secondary school, as the representative Scarbøvik mentions in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2232	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad you keep thinking in the paths that were expressed in my question earlier. The Council of State said in the financial debate that they had gone over from talk to action. Here's the chance to prove this. I've asked for it before, and now we're halfway through the school year. Russian times are a part of schooling for many school students, and there are creative people — among others. in Horten high school — which has plans and needs money to realize them and to meet commercialisation — also mentioned by the Council of State in the written reply. It could be, for example, contact the Ministry of the Family for a resource package. I would like to ask when measures can be implemented so that we can avoid such phrases as we do. So in the last May newspaper that the Russian president must regret the Russian behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2239	If we get there that we can already make sure that all Russians carry out the Russian celebration in the way that the representative Skarbøvik aims, I do not know. I think that's a little ambitious even for this council to get to. But what we're going to do is we're going to send out a letter to every high school with information and good examples of how this can be done. We will get it out in such a good time that it will be applicable to the Russian celebration in 2001. In terms of resources, as the representative Scarbøvik himself says, it is a question of budgets and appropriations. There is no specific answer, because I am not aware of the concrete measures that may cost a lot of money. As I see it, a lot of this has to be done within the local budgets available for secondary schools. However, it is clear that in relation to contract work and the better use of the school year also through the Russian celebration, it will probably need concrete action on a central level. We're working on that in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2252	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘The two reports evaluating the CRL subject have been published. One finding is that the exemption scheme is practised differently. This may be due to poor information, but it is also clear that the rules are being applied differently. The reports show that where there are conflicts, the level of conflict is high. There are several places that created a climate that makes dialogue and cooperation difficult. What will the Council of State do to remedy the situation, and will the Council of State do something already in the current school year, even if the Storting has not dealt with the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2261	The Storting asked for the partial exemption of the subject of Christian knowledge with religious and life views to be evaluated after three years. The Norwegian Academy of Teachers and a joint project between the Högskulen in Volda and the research centre at the Diakon home university centre, Diaforsk, were commissioned by the Norwegian Research Council. The two evaluation reports were available in October. As the representative of Rikvam correctly states, the reports show, among other things: the practice of the exemption scheme is very different. The Ministry has started work on a big message that will be presented in the spring of 2001. Here we will carry out a thorough review of the results of the evaluation and an assessment of how the intentions of the subject are met. As an immediate measure — and as a concrete action immediately — the Ministry has sent out a letter to the primary schools, municipalities and government education offices providing brief information on the evaluation reports. The Ministry asks in the letter that individual schools go through their routines to ensure that the information to their homes, the teaching of the subject of Christianism with religious and life-view orientation and the practice of the exemption system are in line with the assumptions underlying the subject. In addition, government education directors have been given the task of reviewing the evaluation results and discussing improvement points with each municipality. The Ministry will receive feedback from the education directors on how this has been carried out in meetings with the education directors in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2274	I thank you for your answer. I feel that the work done so far is okay enough. There is a lot of work going on to inform me. But I also think it's a little bit important that a show a great degree of flexibility out of this school year when it comes to exemptions. I think it would be right and sensible for the Council of States to signal right now that where the conflict is large, and where there is a psychological climate that makes this very problematic and difficult, a full exemption should be granted to try to mitigate the level of conflict. Because I don't think we'll ever get out of this case in a good way if we don't already try to mitigate the level of conflict. It is a call to the Council of State to do something about the precise exemption system even before Stortinget has dealt with the matter. [[The President clubs.]] I would like to stress that the strength of democracy is characterized by the way in which a minority is treated. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2283	The President will note that the speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2286	I fully agree with what the representative, Mr Requam, says, that one of the most important test pieces of democracy is how to treat its minorities. That is why we need to get to a CRL subject that works in relation to the different minorities. It turns out that it works well in some places, and that it works badly elsewhere, within the same code. That means that to a large extent it's the practice it depends on. In connection with the CRL subject, this increase has led to the creation of a common core, a common subject and exemption from part of the subject. I want to hold on to that system until we possibly come up with other solutions. I really believe, like Mr Reikvam, that it is possible to find good, flexible solutions locally if you use the space for action and the information obligation that exists within the framework of the legislation we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2295	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions. The President takes note of the speakers who are not satisfied with one additional question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2300	I thank you for that reminder. It's just the state council and I here now, so we could keep going on this case for a long time, because it's an important thing. Then to the exemption scheme. The report from the Hågskulen in Volda clearly shows that there are environments where one practices full exemption, there are schools where full exemption is practised — one school is highlighted specifically in this report — while other environments do not have the same opportunity. That's why I think it's awfully important now that one shows flexibility even in those environments where one practices this very rigorously and where it's harder to get exemptions. So my recommendation is still that the Council of State makes a call to the schools to show great flexibility and stretch far to try to mitigate the level of conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2307	I have already stressed to schools and teachers and also to the media that great flexibility should be shown. I think very much can be solved from that, and it's no coincidence, I would say, that flexibility is also the first word in my educational policy slogan FRISK. So I think it's right, as Requam says, that it's possible to solve a lot of things by showing local openness and adaptability. On the other hand, I am a member of a common core of the CRL subject. Now we see when we are going to deal with the evaluation and make a big message, how the two considerations can be taken care of, both with the rights of minorities and a common basis in the subject. I think it's important in a multicultural and multireligious society that we have meeting places where we get to know each other. This is the last question and the last round, so if the president has time, I'd like to take more rounds, otherwise Rikvam and I can keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2316	Then your case no. 1 ready-to-use.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-29.ana.ud654e2325	There is no record available.
