ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e15	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group for the representative Per Sandberg as from the evening meeting on Tuesday 9 May and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Robert Erikson, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e33	Robert Erikson is here and wants to take a seat. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e47	St.meld. No 19) Norwegian agriculture and food production were promoted by the outgoing central government. The notification was made through an open and comprehensive process. Particular attention was paid to the possibility for all actors and interest groups to provide early judgements and input into the process, as a basis for the preparation of the notification. The communication is therefore well anchored and provides a good basis for today’s debate. Of course, the new government has made a broad assessment of what we should do with the agricultural notification after accession. It is clear that there are parts of the message that would have been written in another way if this government had carried it all in the pen itself, but after an overall assessment, the Government found the basis to stand behind the message. I am pleased that, in cooperation between the Workers' Party and the centre of the position, a comprehensive majority has been created for the development of food and agricultural policy. It will be the best basis for the development of these policies in the future. This is particularly true in relation to the forthcoming WTO negotiations, which may have a major impact on policy-making. An overall committee underlines the importance of import protection and that the total impact of the different functions of agriculture represents the total benefits to the industry. Furthermore, the Committee considers that an attractive agricultural industry and an active food production across the country are an important basis for the good management of key societal tasks. As the Committee, I would like to point out the major challenge of increasing consumer orientation in Norwegian agriculture and food production. It shall cover the entire food chain from soil to table. The food shall be health safe and presented and in a fair manner. The interests of consumers need to be better taken into account in policy-making, management and supervision. Transparency and influence must be ensured, inter alia: by involving consumers more closely in the decision-making processes related to legislation and control of foodstuffs. In a well-functioning market, consumers shall be able to choose a nutritionally adequate diet and be offered high-quality goods and a wide range of products at an acceptable price. I aim that the action plan on consumer orientation for food and agricultural production, which is under way, will help to increase consumer orientation. Innovation, conversion and competition shall be facilitated in the agricultural sector and in the food industry. In particular, I would like to point out two main challenges in food production that require something to be done quickly. The need to implement these changes was an important element in the assessment of whether the notification should be addressed now. Firstly, there is a need for lower food prices and commodity prices in the interests of the competitive food industry, border trade and domestic overproduction problems, and secondly the need for increased product range and adapted production to a market adapted to the modern consumer. I would like to contribute to this by launching a value creation programme for agriculture and the food industry. There is a need to reduce prices of important agricultural food. Large consumer groups place an emphasis on the price when buying food. It shows developments in border trade, which reduces the Norwegian market and causes considerable losses of both income and jobs. Greater emphasis must be placed on consumer interests, inter alia: to work at lower food prices. The Government has therefore put in place a strategy that has the ambition of leading to lower consumer prices. In agricultural policy, the target prices may be reduced, as agreed by the Committee. However, reducing target prices is not enough, because commodity prices only form part of the prices paid by consumers. If we are to succeed in reducing consumer prices, we must therefore contribute to all stages of the value chain for food production. That's why I met yesterday with the four food chains and key actors in the food industry. The aim is to get all stages to contribute to the work at lower food prices. At the centre of this work is also, as the Committee stresses, the development and improvement of public-sector documentation tools for price formation and price development at different stages, and comparisons of consumer prices with our neighbouring countries. Work is in progress on further development and will be central to the follow-up. The majority have agreed that agriculture must be compensated for the reduced income opportunities it provides, and that compensation must be made as much as possible independently of production in order to avoid reincentives to overproduction and overcapacity. At the same time, I place great emphasis on the need to focus more on the most rational parts of agriculture in future policy-making and use. to reduce costs. I also stress, as the Committee, that income opportunities are particularly important for recruitment for use where agricultural production can be a major occupation. We must maintain farming as a profession, although income and business combinations will always be important for agriculture and for housing and employment in the districts. That is why we have been in favour of compensation by means of a tax deduction. It gives rise to a clear activity requirement because it requires active agriculture for profit. As this compensation will be the same for all use with sufficient income, it also provides the basis for significant flare-up of the structural profile. It is important to implement several reform proposals that can reduce the level of costs and transfer needs to Norwegian agriculture. As the Committee points out, efforts must be made to redeploy the financial instruments for use with sufficient resources to make a significant contribution to employment and income. This must be done over some time, but the work must start now. Such re-priorities will not be able to be implemented without affecting individual use. Nevertheless, both in this context and in the further simplification of instruments, we need to accept such outcomes as are necessary to contribute to modern and attractive agriculture for people with ideas and progress, which I would like to stress the importance of. I want us in Norwegian stores to find a large selection of products at reasonable prices. Anyone who wants special products, exciting products, different products, whether tasted or qualityd, must also be able to find it easily. A central instrument for this is the implementation of a value creation programme. I believe this must be one of the most important areas of activity for Norwegian agriculture, Norwegian food production, marketing and processing to meet the challenges we face. I am pleased that the Committee supports and makes a positive contribution to the development of such a programme. The many common interests between the different stages of the food chain should be better exploited than at present to ensure an increase in value creation in Norway. The initiative must be coordinated with what is already done through the BU funds and the competition strategy for Norwegian food. Organic farming will be a very important ingredient in this work, and we are now working on an action plan to promote the marketing of organic agricultural products. However, the development of the Programme shall not be a public exercise. I would like to pay great attention to the fact that the actors themselves are making a strong contribution both to the design and funding of the programme. The Committee also points to the growing importance of non-food products in Norwegian agriculture. A better use of the total resources of agriculture will make an important contribution to increased value creation in the industry. Tourism and the production of collective goods are important keywords here. St. Report. No In my view, 19 and the attitude of the Business Committee provide a good basis for meeting the major challenges facing food and agricultural policy. However, it is essential that all actors in the industry move in the same direction in key areas and contribute to increased value creation. I myself shall do my utmost to ensure that the measures outlined in the notice, to which the Storting agrees, are implemented as quickly and effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e83	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e86	Our new Minister of Agriculture has great challenges and tasks to address. He promised at the end of his speech that he would do his part to achieve the objectives of the communication, to which the majority of the Stortinges subscribe, and that is well and good. But I'm going to grab hold of something that Kari and Ola Nordmann are very concerned about, and there are blood prices on groceries in this country and all the promises that agricultural spokesperson Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has made in the past, and that Agriculture Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has also made in that context. I have found a few suggestions in the national media about this. On 16 June last year, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said as an agricultural policy spokesman in the Workers' Party, according to the VG: «The prices were cut by 20 per cent!» It was in connection with the agricultural settlement. What happened was that prices went up 1 pst. And that wasn't that much, but all our competitors reduced prices, and we had big price differences from before. So, in the context of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's budgetary procedure in December 1999, according to the Newspaper, it is said that he is «Lovering cheaper food» and «20 per cent down», and he is receiving a huge deal of it. And then in the free newspaper newspaper March 29th: "The food will be cheaper. Norwegian food is going to be cheaper from summer on. Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen promises this.» And on Saturday 6 May, Per Roshifte also takes up the thread in the General Organisation of Commerce and Services and tells what promises Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has made, that we need to keep to the EU price level and not increase price differences. Now there are a lot of people in Norway who wonder when the Ministry and the Minister of Agriculture are going to honour these promises that have come on a continuous basis. I will follow up on behalf of the Progress Party and see how price developments are progressing. This is a central question that I would like an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e101	As can be seen from the announcement the Stortinget has received today, and the central government has said about this matter – which we have also put before us, and to which the Stortinget has agreed – is the starting point for the notification that the price difference between Norwegian and Swedish food should be reduced. You have to reduce the gap. That's the starting point. This means that we now have to address this challenge through the work on agriculture. The first stage of that work will be a significant reduction in target prices. I am aware that you can then answer that there is already a big difference between the target price and the market price. We will, of course, deal with it in the agricultural sector. But I hope that the representative Hedstrøm understands that I cannot go into detail about the negotiating arrangements with which we are now working in relation to the agricultural business. But we want to address that question. Of course, the ambition must be that we are primarily concerned with reducing the prices of the type of food in which the problem of border trade is greatest and of the type of raw materials that are most important for the competitive part of the food industry. So in the sum of what we're doing through the agricultural settlement, and the measures we're now implementing to ensure that reduced commodity prices get through the chains and out in terms of reduced consumer prices, we have ambition, as I also said in my main post, that consumers in Norway will notice that the price of some central Norwegian agricultural food products goes down. I feel that the setting in Stortinget today gives us a good basis to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e110	Government Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and I have something in common when we discuss food policy, and that is that we both ask the impression that food is important to us. It can also be a good starting point for a constructive dialogue on food and agricultural policy in the future. I take a positive view of the conclusions that the Council of State drew in relation to the vote, but I have some comments. I think it was very important that the Council of State met yesterday with the big chains. There are now three-four buyers who decide what kind of food industry is going to live and what kind of industry is going to die. It is important in itself, but of course it is also important in relation to prices. The measures that come there are absolutely necessary. But there's also another kind of communication I'm busy with. It applies to long-termity in relation to the industry itself. I am pleased that the Council of State took up the work that took place before the message came from the Council of State. It's a hugely comprehensive process of building trust in the industry and having a dialogue with young people to get young people to bet on the industry. I want to challenge the Council of State, which I believe has good communication skills, to continue the work after such a lack. But then something is important: long-termity is what young people ask when they are going to bet on agriculture. It is important what has happened in this setting, the cooperation that lies between the centre and the Labour Party. As long as you stick to the text – and it’s important, although it’s sometimes difficult to define – is one of those who is willing to continue working with the center, and not now go back to doing what the representative Gabrielsen mentioned earlier today, which he thinks the Labour Party will do? He claims that the Labour Party is not to be trusted in this matter. But that's what I assume the Council of State will cancel.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e123	The situation is that after today the representative Lilletun and the Council of State have more things in common than just the look! The starting point is that we now also have a compromise on an agricultural policy which, of course, I have the ambition to pursue. It will probably be demanding, both because my impression of the work done in the central government is that there were also many discussions between the three parties that constituted that government, and that the glaring message that was finally presented by the government council was a compromise in government. Then it is once again carried on in a compromise in the Stortinget between the Centre and the Workers' Party. As I said in my post: I think it is a great strength for Norwegian agricultural policy that we have managed to achieve that. But then, of course, it will be difficult to ensure that, through the practical everyday life, we are able to continue that compromise when we are going to deal with individual matters, not least in relation to farming. However, as I also said in my reply to the representative Hedstrøm, my starting point is that I believe that the setting in Stortinget has a basis for addressing and responding to the main challenges facing Norwegian agriculture, and my starting point will of course be to follow up on what the majority of the population is doing. If everyone does that, it would be the best starting point to build on that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e130	The president regrets that the only thing that can be offered by what you agree to gather around here in the hall is a glass of water.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e133	It's necessary, it's necessary!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e140	I understand that the debate is developing into a volume-to-volume misappropriation. There, of course, I have nothing to do! But speaking of the physical and bodily language, I have to say that the body language of the Workers' Party today and in the play of this debate can indicate that it's not everything you like as well. And as Hanssen now said, it will be demanding. Hanssen has now been in the department for a while and heard about the compromises that took place with the Center Party, and I understand that he is hot. It was also referred to the broad treatment that this message had had had in front of the promotion, and Lilletun referred to the organisations and the recordings. And that's right, it was a very broad treatment. But I would also like to remind you of the reactions of the Norwegian League of Bonds, which the Secretary-General and the President of the League of Bonds have now marketed in most of the counties, namely that the income target in the report was the worst Bond team since the war. Then they didn't talk about a war a short time ago, but I think it was back to just before the 1950s. So that's now a little bit different. I will not go up all these newspapers – I have left that pile in the office. However, in the context of the agricultural settlement last year, then the case-rapporteur Hanssen wrote in his statement that the fact that the business transfers were now increasing was contrary to the setting of St.prp. No 8 for 1992-93 and the Eyering line. It was abandoned by the previous government, and it was claimed – correctly enough – by the Workers' Party. What I was going to ask Hanssen about is whether he's going to continue the Eyeyang line, which means a reduction in the nutrient transfers, or whether it's the center profile, which is going to put as much into that pot as possible. It is also true that in the setting last year, the Right, Labour Party and the Advance Party said that further work ‘must be based on the objective of lower business transfers’. Does the Council of State still have that ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e151	Firstly, I would not have been particularly concerned if the representative Gabrielsen had come up with all the quotations from the past, because what the Workers' Party has expressed in relation to the agricultural policy in the opposition, I feel that in no way do we have any problems in resisting us in the position. It does not seem to me as if the representative Gabrielsen comes with quotations from earlier up on this pulpit. So specifically to the question: As I have read the setting, the setting does not explicitly say anything about the future transfer level. It is not said to be reduced, but it is not said to be the opposite. There is certainly a recognition that it will always be such that it will be very difficult in advance to express an opinion on a future level of transfers, because it will depend on so many factors, not least both international agreements and the current budgetary situation at national level. However, the Workers' Party programme is clear on this point, namely that in the long term it must be an objective to reduce the level of transfers in Norwegian agriculture, not least by reducing the level of costs. Therefore, there are important pieces in the setting that we are currently dealing with, in terms of reduced costs associated with e.g.: a new organisation of the market in cereals and feedingstuffs, which contributes in the right direction. So, of course, the starting point for me is that it would be an advantage for the industry to be able to develop the level of costs in such a way that the need for government transfers can be reduced in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e159	We also heard today in Stortinget about the “blood prices” in Norwegian food. Now it just came from the Advancement Party, and we could really just blow it and turn our backs on, but for those who were the coin on, Norwegian farmers, it's clear that it was hard to hear such things. When we've been around meetings and talking to people and asking why they're going to sell the milk quota, it's among other things. Some resource-powerful people who say that now we're tired of being bullied and not being taken in defense of those who know better. Norwegian farmers should have reason to feel proud and proud of the work they do in creating food in this country under the conditions in which we live. They're doing a really great job themselves. They take care of the resources that previous generations have done. They're taking out little money for the job they're doing, because they're thinking this is going to go on to the next generation. It is clear that it is unfair to be compared with countries such as the United Kingdom. has a better climate. NILF has carried out a study including: to calculate climate constraints in Norway. SEK 2.50 per month. litres of milk have arrived at them. When they add up to other disadvantages that we may have, in the sense that the salary level is higher in this country, that we have higher transport costs, that we have greater environmental requirements and some additional animal protection requirements, they come to the conclusion that the sum of the additional costs is partly significantly higher than the payment price for milk. Nevertheless, we have decided that we should produce milk in this country, and then we have to give transfers and price subsidies, so that production can take place. I asked the ministry a question about whether there were studies that could give answers to this, and that could also be involved in defending Norwegian farmers in this discussion. Such investigations were not carried out, it was said. But I want to ask the Council of State if he doesn't agree that to make sure that capable people don't end up in agriculture, we're going to help document that we have to provide such support that we've agreed on in the Storting until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e170	It is well in the whole system that we have in Norway, with a policy in which we have the ambition to use agricultural policy for something more than producing food, a recognition that we do not, through agricultural policy, have the aim of simply using the very best agricultural land in the country and just focusing on the most rational food production. We want it to be a settlement throughout the country, we want living rural communities, and we want to use agricultural policy as part of rural policy. Therefore, from that point of view, it is also very strange to compare the level of costs and the production of one litre of milk in Norway versus a country that does not have the objectives of agricultural policy. It's going to be an exercise that, in my opinion, really has a very small value, because it's comparing two different worlds. The problem here is that despite the fact that we want to use agricultural policy to achieve more objectives than to produce Norwegian food, the products coming from agriculture are still to be sold in a market, although a sheltered market, but they are to be sold in a market. And so, when price developments in the Norwegian market over time are very different from those in an alternative market, we need to be able to bridge the link between managing district policy and market challenges in a better way in the future. I think that's the big challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e177	Both ambitions and courage and ability to see opportunities to bring agriculture into the new century are needed. And so it doesn't just require useful quality on the goods, but it takes top quality. Organic food, according to SV, will also open market opportunities on the export page. There has been very little talk about it. I also see in this context that the development of organic food will be important for the future of the food industry, because there are large markets here. At present, ambitions are small, but opportunities can be great. I want to ask the Minister of Agriculture if he agrees that it is possible to think along those lines, that there are also market opportunities on the export side that are much larger than what we have seen today. Then I want to take a look at our neighboring country Denmark. There they have done a new and very exciting grip, precisely because they have recognised that it is at the intersection of the consumer and the safe food strategy that agriculture needs to find its place in the future. That is why they have taken the exciting step of establishing a Ministry of Food. So they've put the consumer and food safety perspective in the center. It could be possible to imagine that one had a consumer and food minister also in Norway. How does the Minister view following up the consumer angle and the safe food angle that the majority now say they have, and look at the future structure and work on these issues, so that we get the focus where it should be, namely on consumer rights, safe food and environmentally sound agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e184	There were in particular three major issues raised by the replicator, and it will be difficult for me to go further and further into all of them. Let me first say a few words about exports. I am of the opinion that the idea of exporting Norwegian agricultural products is not as distant as many would like it to be. We have many opportunities associated with special food productions in this country, but at the same time it is also clear that many have tried before. And it feels like it's hard. We've done it partially on strawberries. There we've gradually had quite a success. But it will be demanding to be able to move on. But it's possible. The fact that it's demanding doesn't mean that you shouldn't keep trying. So to this with the development of organic food. It's today so 1.8 pst. of the area in Norway organically grown. The ambition we adopt when this message is completed is that in ten years we will be up to 10 pst. My claim is that it is quite ambitious and quite offensive. So, of course, we can discuss whether it's ambitious enough, but in my opinion, you try to stretch here. So to the last one, which is a very big problem. In any case, I believe that this is the way – without having to go into and define in any way how the Prime Minister is to deal with his ministry – that the challenges associated with ensuring that you organise yourself to have a maximum focus on consumer accommodation, security and food security are very important in the debate. And in that way, I think a lot of what Karin Andersen points to is interesting, and I'd like to be happy to discuss it further on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e195	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e198	I think there is reason to say that Norwegian agriculture has reason to be pleased that it was possible to get a platform for us together with the centre that enabled us to advise the Minister of Agriculture and the Government not to draw the agricultural message that the central government had provided. There would have been a very uncertain situation if one had come to the position that the message had to be drawn; pending a new message, the whole agricultural industry would have to operate in a vacuum that would have been extremely unfortunate. There is no particular doubt that it has been necessary to compromise, both on the part of the Labour Party and on the part of the Centre Party. That's the way it is when you're going to sew together a setting that is initially a little different - but no bigger than that we could put this together. But I do not hide that it has been imperative to come to a setting where we are together about everything, and there is reason to thank all those who have been most central in this, for the fact that at all events it was going to happen. But it's going to be even more demanding in time. When the representative Lilletun asks if there is a threat or an argument we're going to have in the future, there's not only one party in that community, there's more, and it's totally dependent on everyone seeing the will for cooperation. I have to admit that there is part of what has been said in this debate today, which makes it perhaps more difficult than I thought, because there can be no particular doubt that we are forced to work actively to bring down the prices of Norwegian agricultural products. Then there's no help in seeing that we use less of the income of food than we've done before, because that's not what's driving. It's Agenda 2000, it's the WTO, and it's the border trade. So there's already a reason to say that if there's to be a cooperation in the future, it's a necessity to have the recognition that food prices and especially commodity prices have to go down. Not only the users who require it. If we don't work to bring down the commodity prices, the whole ROK industry will have problems, and that's after all one of the biggest industries we have in our country. It is also the case that we do not get away, whether we like it or not, that transfers to Norwegian agriculture have to go down. We will not at least be required by the WTO. And also at that point, we're going to have a demanding task ahead of us. So I've registered this clock trial that a reduction in the food tax will help us get reduced food prices. Yes, what we've said in the setting is that now we're going to go through all of these arguments that speak for a reduced food tax, which many claims will seem so positive to consumers. And then we'll see what happens. I'm very much in doubt if the result is what many people think, that we get a huge reduction in food prices for consumers by reducing food tax. The competition between imports and the production itself is going to be exactly the same if we reduce the food tax. So a life in the future is demanding for more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e211	Norwegian agriculture and food production have both a regional policy, a preparedness and an industrial policy aspect. Perhaps it is the importance of agriculture for housing, business, cultural landscapes, etc. which explains the broad involvement of people around the country, both for the notification and for the agricultural industry. The communication is constructively angled both towards multifunctional agriculture and towards the whole line from land to table, focusing on what consumers demand for quality, security of supply and ethical and aesthetic conditions. The framework conditions in Norway may impede competition in terms of quantity and price. On the other hand, when it comes to quality and purity, we take precedence over many other countries. In this context, labelling schemes indicating the origin and content of the product are essential. The focus is on organic farming, off-road industries, niche products, green care and other complementary industries where opportunities are available. However, if new resources are to be used on the farm, it must produce a surplus that makes it possible to invest in new activities and there must be time available for the new activities. The value creation of agriculture will have to come from both output, value-added services and professional nature management. This conversion requires competence development and new technologies. Therefore, the agricultural message’s signals on the prioritisation of skills building measures are important. In addition, both the effectiveness control and the operational reviews show that there is a significant potential to obtain professional qualification. However, if production-dependent revenues are reduced too much, the incentive could be weakened. The message has a clear long-term profile through the strengthening of soil protection and a recognition that we are becoming more and more people on earth who need food, in parallel with an ever-increasing scarcity of resources to produce food — especially water. This suggests that agricultural resources should also be used in high-cost countries with difficult natural conditions. The Communication sets out clear objectives for active agriculture in all parts of the country and for a geographical division of labour between the cereal and grass areas. This is a crucial prerequisite for the role of agriculture in rural policy. We also find a clear recognition of the special problems and challenges facing Northern Norwegian agriculture, and it is positive that a special effort is being proposed on the part of the country, among others. through the Nordic Centre of Competence for Agriculture. In order to get today's farmers to bet forward, and not least to recruit the farmers of the future, income development and social arrangements are absolutely necessary in line with other groups in society. In Northern Europe, and I think that the rest of the country is showing the same trend, the decline in agricultural income has led to those who can get more of the income from the outside. The equity is toiling and the operating appliance wears faster than it is renewed. A survey in southern Greece, the heaviest agricultural area in northern Norway, shows that if the current framework conditions continue, equity will be exhausted by 2005. In August 1999, the number was 5 pst. of the farmers' payment problems. In January 2000, there were 33 p.m. payment problems. Some people don't have the money to advance sick pay. 25 out of 139 uses have recently sold the milk quota. The first to be extinguished are those with the greatest indebtedness in combination with at least time resources, for example: recruitment in a family situation which has made investments in the establishment. This situation is alarming, not only for farmers, but also for municipalities and local communities. In order for agriculture to compete with young people and the labour force, clear targets are needed on income trends in the future. If the goal is cheaper food, lowering the food tax to the Swedish level must be preferable to a one-sided reduction in the farmer's net income. However, I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture stressed that all points have to contribute to the reduction of food prices. The tax treatment is positive, but should also benefit those who do not have positive entrepreneurial income, for example. development use. I think that the interests of the grazing industry could have been better taken care of in the notification. In some of our counties, predators have increased considerably in recent years. Active stock regulation measures need to be introduced quickly and losses beyond normal losses should be fully covered. I am pleased that the government of Stoltenberg has supported the agricultural notification, and that today we have it for treatment here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e241	Norwegian agriculture has a task far beyond the production of food, it is said from this pulpit today. It is worth repeating, for this recognition is a decisive basis for the choices we make and have made in the formulation of agricultural policy and as a basis for negotiations with the WTO and other international bodies. That is why we want to maintain a small scale, environmentally friendly agriculture across the country. This is why we still want to give priority to coarse-feed-based, labour-intensive rural agriculture and to continue with the channelling policy. Of course, such an agriculture must cost. However, the major challenge is that agricultural incomes in the form of subsidies and protection aid are increasingly important in relation to food production payments. There is no solution for agriculture to increase the production of standard products or to raise prices at a time of overproduction and at a time of increased international price competition. In future, if the farmer is to obtain more of his income in the form of agricultural production, he must direct production and marketing towards a market with greater willingness to buy and to pay. So, one of the most important things we can do is to develop a value creation programme with economic instruments, preferably through the SND and the BU systems, and guidance to stimulate such special production. It is certain, as we have pointed out, that there is a potential for all economic exploitation of forest and land. But then I would strongly warn against this reducing public law and access to open-air facilities. Raw materials prices need to be reduced in order to improve conditions of competition, including for the food industry. When the setting now provides compensation for this in the form of a tax deduction per. It is also necessary to prohibit the use of measures in relation to the possible adverse effects. relative to a desired structural development and the desire to strengthen those that provide a basis for being full-time bonders. This has to be taken into account in the launch profile. I also believe that it is right that the food tax is now carefully assessed. However, if a reduced income tax is to be paid with VAT on travel life, which already has a marginal economy, this is a bad solution. We need to get a more open agriculture where more people can escape. It must then be right to raise the concession limit to 20 pieces and to spread the property power at the same time. Similarly, a restriction on the rights under the laws of no part of the world should be curtailed, and the deadline for redemption should be curtailed. In my opinion, this should be a guide for the selection to consider the odellova. Women's rights in agriculture must be enhanced, both when it relates to the distribution of garden income and a single one's ability to maintain a gardening. Keeping up with moderate structural development is not an option. One must try to strengthen the situation of a farmer who has a use that requires full labour. Norwegian agriculture also needs an ice-cream of what I would call professional farmers. Together with increased educational provision and skills, this will help to strengthen a quality stamp on which Norwegian agriculture depends in an increased competitive situation. This should not be misunderstood as though the combination usage should not be the dominant one in the future as well. We need the lack. The message says that in all parts of the country the registered agricultural area increases. At the same time, there is evidence that soil protection is under intense pressure and that one must therefore strengthen soil protection. In other words, there needs to be a balancing, because we don't have to be so that our cities don't get development opportunities. It is therefore important that the setting stipulates that the public authorities should still have the possibility to make a holistic social planning, among other things. for the purpose of rational urban and urban development. Overall, this is a good attitude, which gives rise to active farming across the country, with the benefits it has for other industries, busses, cultural landscapes and living rural environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e267	I am probably among the few who meet the peasants daily, and they say: Property law is important, well and good, but property law without right of counsel is nothing worth! When you see that stream of regulations, regulations, regulations and restrictions in the right of access that have become the farmers of the last generation, you have to admire those who are still engaged in active and independent operations. In 1992, the Council of State eyeball and a large majority wanted farmers to raise new incomes because it was desirable that the large overproduction of meat and milk be reduced. That made sense. But how is it when such a policy is to be put into practice? Do farmers have arms and freedom to earn new incomes? Illusion or Destiny No. 1: Farmers should process the resources and develop more local products. Yeah, sure. At the same time, it is not advisable for us consumers to obtain bone cheese, trogoes or brands such as Whitnesseid butter and other long-lasting niche products, because agricultural cooperation is stock standardized. Little daisies still go doll. Why are French winegrowers happy? Do they empty all the wine in one vessel, stir around and sell it as red wine from Bordeaux? No, they sell their special brands as niche products. Illusion or Destiny No. 2: Farmers should obtain greater income from hunting and fishing hire, called it. Yes, please. Not before has the Storting agreed on this, before socialists of all kinds go to the price mechanism, fire under envy against the cocas that can afford to fish salmon in the best riverholes, and pretend it is a kind of general human right to get big game hunting. It was pushed through the fact that all under 16 years of age are free to fish as much as they want for private reasons. And it's still about introducing so-called democratic maximum prices on hunting and fishing leases. Nor is it motivating for the farmer when the law in practice means that several places in the country cannot use his own car to run over his own property to extract the fish from his own water. Illusion or Destiny No. 3: Farmers have to make more use of grazing resources. Oh, yeah. The sheep and goat are specially designed to get into the loin and transform grass into proteins and good human food. Nevertheless, predators are released in ever larger flocks both inside and outside so-called nuclear areas. Animal protection is in crisis. The carcass of domestic growth. In many districts the peasants are in despair. Buffetery and nutrition must give way. The last requirement from so-called protection is that the wolf should walk freely with the piano and radio transmitters, but that the sheep should be kept indoors and instead eat power feed from the third world. Today, letters have been received from five spokespersons in Midtre and Obere Buskerud with strong protests against the plans for the release of wild wolves in the direction of Hardangervidda. If the new government wants to break down businesses and jobs in the mountain areas both in Buskerud and many other counties, there are two things to do: 1) to let the wolf loose in the agricultural areas and 2) to release VAT in the tourism sector. Illusion or Destiny No. 4: The peasants must go out into the woods and get more income through greater logging, it is called. Well, I'm sure something can be done here. But it is also not motivating when forestry can be stopped with a pen stroke and without any replacement through so-called forest protection, where the care of low, burning, pineapple, hazagnoll, hoarding and mosafin becomes more important than nutrition. Illusion or Destiny No. 5: The peasants must bet on the cottage, it is called. Yes, well, no. Here the landowners meet the wall with large V. The so-called 68s have found a last-destroyed haze, i.e. the environmental services of state and state. What they can do from here through regulation, bureaucracy, wilderness romance and anti-sivilisatory activity is simply impressive. In Upper Buskerud, travel life is a berebel, and space is more than enough of it. Thus, a more liberal land disposal, not more stringent, for cabin construction, says County Councillor in Buskerud, Matz Sandman. The former government council understands the problems better when it comes closer to the grassroots. My main point is that if society demands that farmers continue to do a good job by getting new incomes, the same society should not in practice make it impossible for farmers to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e288	There St.meld. No 19 on Norwegian agriculture and food production were submitted by the Bondevik administration, no one reacted as strongly to the notification as the Bondelage. The peasant team meant, among other things: that the income statements for the farmers in the notification were the worst after the war. The working party believes that the notification is a good starting point for agriculture in the production of healthy food. The objective shall continue to be viable and long-term food supply. A number of measures that are now being adopted are a continuation of the agricultural policy that was developed when Gunhild Øyang was Minister of Agriculture. Therefore, there was no reason for the Workers' Party to draw the message after the government change. Today we are dealing with the notification of agriculture, and very soon we are facing new and important agricultural negotiations. Both have an impact on agriculture and food production. Both parts deal with road choices and options for the future. It must be a goal to reduce unprofitable use in this country. This objective cannot be achieved without opening up larger units than is the case today. Otherwise, I am afraid the result will be more part-time farmers and more hobby farmers, and that the children will escape both the farm and the village for work elsewhere. There's no good solution for anyone. Safe food and high quality are key points with which the farmers themselves are starting to market their products. I think that's a good start. However, the yield potential in Norway, even in the best places, is lower than in the countries south of us. That is why the challenges are very great. It is not difficult to adhere to the high-quality food and food requirements that are safe and safe for consumers. We're known for that, and we're good at that. However, it is with the agricultural products that with all the other goods: quality will cost. I'm afraid that in today's situation we need to put great emphasis on efficient and cheap production. One cannot lay down agriculture in the urban and best production areas to produce more expensive in the districts. The fact that it is easier for farmers in central areas to get a different job is not a good argument in terms of caring for sustainable Norwegian agriculture in the future. In recent sales of milk quotas, several major units in the central agricultural areas chose to sell the quotas and end their production. In Eastfold there are now only 300 dairy farmers left. These were cost-effective units which are clearly desirable for sustainable Norwegian agriculture. It is important that the price difference between Norwegian and imported products is not excessive. The goal must be to decrease this distance. Research and development can do something, which has to be done at the level of turnover, but what can most affect such development is a structural change to larger units. Consumers, not only those who live near borders and who can trade in Sweden, but also everyone else, will in the long run not find themselves paying much higher prices for food than what you do in our neighboring country. Border trade is a clear evidence of this, and mobility is increasing. As an east fold, I am committed to bringing down the border trade, which has increased dramatically in recent years. It can't go on like that. Nor am I convinced that the reduction of the food tax will solve all the problems. I am pleased that the proposal to introduce a maximum limit of three co-operation participants is not adopted. This would have placed unnecessary restrictions on cooperation in agriculture. Flexibility is also important here, for example. in order to ensure profitability, holidays and leisure time — in other words, matters that are important for the basis of recruitment. R & D and knowledge development have been key instruments in agricultural development for generations. In order to achieve the objectives of the suspension, significant research efforts are needed. Further development of research will be an important element of the objective of environmental agriculture and to achieve lower food prices in Norway. Among other things, there will be: Plant research and the corresponding research institute are crucial in the years to come. Cost-effective agriculture requires localisation of research environments throughout the country. It will require substantial public input.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e320	Agriculture is primarily about the production of food, and there is hardly any treatment available for the size of the population, which is more important than ensuring the country’s food production. This is particularly important when we know what challenges we face internationally regarding future food production. In the future, Norwegian agricultural products will also have the opportunity to be at the top in terms of quality and purity if we use the right instruments in agricultural policy. I am pleased that the Workers' Party and the Centre parties have so clearly signalled the relationship that it is still going to be between our agricultural production and living settlements here in the country. We have little opportunities for further investment, for example. Travel life in Norway if our rural areas become shallow and the cultural landscape deteriorates – I think the Advance Party and the Right will take it inward. It is not possible to leave the entire agricultural policy to the free market while believing that we can ensure sustainable development and live settlements throughout our long-term country. In this connection, I would like to say a little bit about Northern Norwegian agriculture in particular. I often have a feeling that agriculture in the northern part of the country is perceived as little interesting and almost insignificant. In my opinion, agriculture is of great importance to Northern Norway, and opportunities are many if it is facilitated. In North Norway today it is approx. 7000 annual works linked directly to agriculture. In addition, there are ring-effects in the form of jobs in transport, processing, the sale of feed and equipment, research, education, accounting, etc. This implies that agriculture in Northern Norway directly and indirectly represents employment of more than 20 000 annual works. According to the County of Troms, direct employment in agriculture is higher than in fisheries, fisheries and aquaculture combined. This is worth noting when we know the importance of employment in fisheries in this area. This also shows the importance of primary industries in the northern part of the country. Nordic agriculture has so absolutely a future, but for climatic reasons it is not possible to choose production in the same way as in the country. This also applies to profitability. Here, there are also differences within the country. Therefore, it is important that those who live in areas that do not have these options produce what is adapted to the conditions under which they work. In the future, it will also be essential that we have instruments in place to ensure profitability and to allow for production adapted to Nordic conditions. North Norway also has a number of natural advantages that are not stressed enough. For example, it has to be. be able to exploit the benefits of the climate in North Norway in relation to pests and infective pressures by channelling larger parts of the production of pure plant material, especially in the potato and berry production of parts of North Norway. It is important to take advantage of such advantages in order to ensure good quality in the country as a whole. There are already professional environments in North Norway that have competence in this area. I also remember that in North Norway there is the best opportunity for organic farming due to less infectious pressure. There must also be export opportunities here. Therefore, specific development of the competence of organic farming in Northern Norway should be stimulated. I am very pleased that the new Minister of Agriculture has called for a value creation programme for agriculture. This will also be of great benefit to Nordic agriculture, along with the increase in skills to which it is added.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e335	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e338	A communication should draw up policies and give clear signals about the future and opportunities. If a young agricultural family is facing the elections to invest, for example: Two million. kr in agriculture or not, this message does not respond. I believe that the message and setting have not taken the realities inward. Therefore, the shelf-life of the set-aside will be short-lived and agricultural policy will have to be rewritten in a few years' time. The most important law in agriculture in relation to the turnover of agricultural property, the law of no part, has not been established. Over 90 pst. by all properties are traded by this law. Nor have clear answers been given to the people of agriculture about what is happening outside the borders of the country, which will affect us. The EU has adopted Agenda 2000, which will reduce production prices by 15-20 p.m., and put further pressure on Swedish trade and – for us southern countries – Danish trade. But the most dramatic thing that can happen to Norwegian agriculture is what can become agricultural policy under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, where the border tariff can be greatly reduced. This will lead to strong competition from all over the world. Many are not aware of Article 20 of the WTO Protocol. Substantial gradual reductions in support and protection measures have been adopted. If we are still to have a food industry in this country, Norway must take reality inwards. My advice to the young agricultural family who may assess economic investment in agriculture is as follows: I think in the future there will be three types of use or farmers who will find their place in the new agriculture in Norway: 1st@item: inlistbox Those who maintain the farm and the land but provide the farm with money earned outside the farm.2. Those who have a use that is of European size and that will be able to produce in kilograms and litres and do well. 3rd@item: inlistbox Those who produce, process and maybe also sell their high-quality products on the farm or in a smaller community. If the use or pawn falls into one of these groups, it's just to invest. Finally, I would like to say that the Committee has helped to make the notification much better, and the majority have many good comments. I trust that the Minister of Agriculture will follow up the comments and also adjust agricultural policy to international developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e367	It was partly nice to hear the last post, from the representative Gunnar Halvorsen. I am approaching the question of whether he has not been given the change of government and prefers the Labour Party's policy from the Bondevik government's days. The Minister for Agriculture said in his speech that the Workers' Party programme is ready to reduce transfers. That is why, when it comes to agriculture, we are looking forward to it with considerable tension. Then there will be questions as to whether Ansgar Gabrielsen is right, or whether it is the case rapporteur. The case rapporteur rejected the fact that there is some artificial consensus formed between the Government and the central parties. I also noticed with great pleasure that the Minister of Agriculture said that he would look at the food products that primarily deal with border trade. It's important. This applies, inter alia, to: an all-purpose agricultural product called Løiten akevitt. This applies in addition to meat – if he is not aware of it. It's no harder than that. As I see him now, it's a promise that we're going to have an agricultural settlement that reduces meat prices, so that we can do something about the devastating border trade. I also want to say a few words about organic farming. Nobody can disagree that it's a nice goal, to which we've also joined. There's only one question, because we humans are so that we want to pay for our illusions, that there are some who imagine that organically produced food is healthier, better and gives a longer life ending the food produced in a rational and efficient way by competent Norwegian farmers. To the extent that consumers are willing to pay what organic production costs, I see many benefits associated with it. But poor Norwegian farmers who are going to run effectively and provide us with food if the bill for these illusions is to be paid over the agricultural settlement. Moreover, I would like to say that what we should start with very quickly if we are interested in organic food is to make sure that we can use the grazing resources in our forest and mountain areas. There is one obstacle, and that is the predatory policy on which the Labour Party and the centre parties are clearly united. This means that we cannot use the resources in the outlying areas completely free of charge and at the same time reduce the payments made on the state budget that are going to pay for this unwise policy. The sheep is nature's own pot. It exploits resources that cannot be used in any other way and is the most sustainable and the most ecological.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e382	A good agricultural policy is also a good rural policy. A well-functioning agriculture is the core wall of many rural and rural areas and helps to maintain both housing and production. In the majority vote of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on Norwegian agriculture and food production, there is a lot of good rural policy that many believe will lead to optimism and increased value creation in the countryside. Key pillars such as continued strong import protection, the role of agricultural cooperation and continued small-scale agriculture across the country are particularly important. Nordic agriculture is marginal agriculture, based on climate and distance. This must be taken into account both in terms of production and processing in the national part of the country, and not least in terms of preparedness. It is good to read that the Communication states that we should continue to have active agriculture in all parts of the country and that there should still be a geographical division of labour between the cereal and grass areas. I interpret this to mean that agriculture in Northern Norway will continue to be a major and important industry in the region and an important part of rural policy. In Northern Norway, a wide range of resource use needs to be stimulated with multi-functional agriculture in focus. In the future, investment in the land industries, niche production and other ancillary industries along with organic farming will be necessary for farming in Northern Norway. Northern Norway has opportunities for organic living farming, but then, as the suspension says, the market must be given a stronger priority, where an additional price in the market is the prerequisite. I hope that will be the case in the future. The development of a Nordic centre of excellence will give the agricultural industry great opportunities to strengthen value creation and help maintain value creation locally. But then there has to be a framework, so that such a centre can be viable. With regard to the large predators and the problems of sheep husbandry and reindeer farming, it is correct that during 2000, the Government should provide an assessment of the situation in the case of wild game damage to buffalo and domestic animals. And, above all, what have we achieved with the prevention measures we have now been carrying out since 1997?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e395	Just a few comments in the end, and a few conclusions. I'll try to put myself so that I don't lengthen the debate unnecessarily. I think I could draw one conclusion, and that is that the debate has shown that it was right to leave the message. It was right not to withdraw it. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have shown in their speeches that there is no majority in this Chamber for an agricultural policy other than that drawn up in St.meld. No 19 and in the position of the Committee. The consequences of the policies of these two parties, as expressed in the submissions, will make it absolutely impossible to achieve the objectives of a large majority — and indeed the whole Committee — in some areas, in particular in terms of housing and agriculture across the country. We must only note that the balance that must be achieved cannot contribute to those parties. In my opinion, it is one of the clear conclusions we can draw from the debate. Another conclusion that can be drawn is that there is a positive and real majority for a balanced policy that takes constructive steps forward. In my view, the debate has not provided a basis for weakening that impression. I think it's worth noting. It should provide practitioners with a stronger sense of security and predictability, which is so important in agriculture. And it should provide a basis for active and constructive contributions from business operators themselves in meeting the challenges that industry will face. The industry must contribute, together with the authorities, if we are to succeed. I will repeat from my post that we must have the actors as co-players if we want to change. We don't get to convert if it's a requirement that they work to destroy themselves. The good basis for the interaction setting represents, in my view, is not weakened by the debate. Finally, a few words about SV's proposal. In my view, some of the proposals have been taken care of in the setting. In the case of other proposals, the consequences are unclear. I would therefore ask that SV transmit the proposals without any processing. Otherwise, the Labour Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e408	First, organic food and how wise it is to bet on it. Increased organic production is primarily an environmental issue that conscious consumers want to contribute to a better solution. It is about the management of our important natural resources and how to deal with them. In addition, it should not be overlooked that many people want to reduce the risk of getting involved, for example: various trace elements, which may be present in conventional agriculture. Whether this is harmful or not, I'm not going to say anything about it, but the reason SV wants to stress this is the environmental concerns and that as a consumer you want to take care of it by getting the opportunity to buy products that are produced organically – so there are no misunderstandings around it. So to the suggestions that I have been asked to submit. It is not quite easy to see that everything is covered in the setting. That is at least a little less clearly said, so on our side we want it to be voted on proposal No. 6 and 7, because we see that there is a strengthening of the organic line in relation to what the setting says, and also a clear desire on our part to bet on the combination user, as the representative Gunnar Halvorsen from the Workers' Party was up and made a good contribution. With regard to proposals Nos. 8, 9 and 10, I see that they can also be input to the Government in relation to the action plan for organic farming to be created. Of course, it's not a big wish on our part to get these down. But it might have been a bit polite about representatives who have been up and talking for a long time and engaged in predatory problems today, had supported proposal No. 10 a little bit. The aim is to establish a plan to increase the use of pasture land for the production of organic meat. I believe that we are not fully aware of and have been documented on the large land resources that are unused. In a discussion about the future management of the predatory stock and how to exploit our foreign resources, it is clearly important that this resource is also documented, and that we see in which parts of the country there is great potential that we could use more. So it would have been nice if they had chosen to notice this proposal a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e417	The case rapporteur said he thought it was right to leave the message. From his point of view and point of view, it is certainly correct, and I then record that he disagrees with the previous case rapporteur for the communication, the current Council of State Hanssen, who thought it should have been sent back. I think it would have been an advantage for the future – and then I am not talking about the content of the message, and an expected content of a message from the Workers' Party – if a greater use could have been made of both the message and the setting as a management tool for the next decade. In spite of the conclusions drawn by the rapporteur, it is my belief – I do not say it is my wish – that this setting will have significantly less to mean than that communication, and the setting, which Norwegian agricultural policy has had as a starting point in the last decade. This debate has shown that at least my assumptions have not been weakened. It's an artificial consensus, and I can only say that when I hear the article from the Workers' Party's Gunnar Halvorsen and from the fractional leader of the nutrition committee, Kjell Opseth, I think the center parties are wise to remember what was said, both the need for transfers to be reduced, in terms of the view of food moms, the ROK industry, etc. It is not possible that all of this can be combined when you are going to do the individual things. However, I am confident that the current Minister of Agriculture will manage the position, the majority remarks and the knitting pile that he has received, in a sensible way and in line with what he himself has said earlier on what should be Norwegian agricultural policy. And when I referred in my post to that bench, it wasn't because I think the Council of State misunderstood me and thought I was very disagreeable. I very much agree with much of what is said there, but it is partly in contradiction to what someone from this majority has today marketed. I believe an agricultural state council today, in the year 2000, is surrounded by a reality that makes part of the statements we have heard in this debate appear to be relatively swarming and dreaming. We live in a reality where it's not just so that we can take the Ole Brumm position all the way. We also need to be aware that today we are, in reality, pursuing a policy that costs Norwegian society $13 billion above the state budget. In this way I do not have any problems with taking an extra three-minute post..
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e433	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e447	I would like to address the minority proposal from the Progress Party and the Right, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e452	The representative of Terje Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2987]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e467	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map. In Case No: 1 and 2 is not a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e476	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 – 5, by Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 6 – 10, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposals of the Socialist Left Party and then the proposals of the Right are the first to be voted on. The President has come to the conclusion that the proposals No. 8, 9 and 10, from the Socialist Left Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposals are then worded as follows: Proposal No. 8:@item: intable Text ‘It is recommended that the Government impose an obligation on market actors receiving public support to carry out regulatory tasks to actively contribute to the market development of organic products.’ 9: ‘It is recommended that the Government strengthen the State’s animal health surveillance and the Animal Ethics Council.’ 10: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit a plan for the increased use of pasture land for the production of organic meat.’ The President proposes that the proposals be sent to the Government without any reallocation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Then there is to be a statement of reality on the proposal No. 6 and 7. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Norwegian Government to change its agricultural policy according to the following lines:- The operating grants and the charging policy are transferred in order to promote increased overall ecologisation and a strong commitment to food quality, animal welfare and the environment.- Building up organic production and sales to the consumer to a minimum of 10 % of the total volume within 10 years.’ 7 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the investment for combined users.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e526	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 to 5, from the right. Here the President assumes that the Progress Party will support the proposals No. One, two, three and five, while one wants to vote against proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox It is then first voted on the proposals No. One, two, three, and five. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Independent operators are given the opportunity to participate in the market regulation of meat.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «Market regulation for the fruit/green sector ceases.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘1. The system for fixing milk production quotas is amended from administrative determination to market-based determination.2. In the case of the sale of the allowance, the price of all litres shall be paid irrespective of the size of the allowance.3. The current allowance withdrawal scheme of more than 200000 litres from the producer wishing to end milk production is terminated.4. The ceiling for maximum production of 130000 litres after purchase of the quota is removed, while maintaining the regional breakdown system.5. The system of primary turnover of production quotas at regional level shall be reintroduced.6. The same principles apply to the rental of allowances.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the concession law and other relevant laws in line with the following assumptions: The concession clause of the concession law is extended and includes that the law shall 'allow as far as possible the right to acquire immovable property'; the right of the Member State to fix the price of transfers of property is abolished. It is clarified in the law that the terms of the concession must be within the meaning of the law. The lower limit of concession is raised to 50 dimensions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e591	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, as the Progress Party has warned that they will vote against. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present to the Storting a big message in line with the proposals in Document No. 8:32 [[1997-1998]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09-2.ana.ud354e618	During the debate, Mr Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to abolish the market regulation of poultry, on the basis of the laws of the Government to promote the turnover of agricultural products.’
