ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e27	The representatives of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Ola D. Glötvold and Are Næss, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes Tove Kari Viken and Michael Momyr The representative of Carl I. Hagen is informed that the granted permit application for days 24 and 25 May has been withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers’ Group on the sick leave of the representative of Anders Hornslien from 24 May onwards and until further notice from the appointed Grand Delegation to Ireland on leave, signed by the Head of the Delegation, from 26 May to 31 May by Mr John I. Alvheim, Mr Karin Andersen, Mr Berit Brørby, Mr Per-Kristian Foss and Mr Lars Gunnar Lie from the delegation of the Stortinges to the session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Budapest on leave, signed by the head of the delegation, Mr Jan Petersen, in the days from 26 May to 30 May by Mr John Dale, Mr Jon Lilletun, Mr Lisbet Rugtvedt, Mr Hans J. Røsjarde, Mr Per Ove Width and Mr Jan Petersen. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, currently resides abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting on the Stortinget under the representative John Dale's leave from 26 May to 31 May. From the first alternate for Akershus and Vestfold County respectively, Julie Christiansen and Jan Th. Langaard, requests to be exempted from meeting, for welfare reasons, the representatives Jan Petersen and Per Ove Width, respectively, from 26 May to 30 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder province: Dagrun Eriksen For Akershus County: Margaritha Rambøl For the state of Hedmark: Helge Bjørnsen For the province of Hordaland: Terje Søviknes and Magnar Lussand For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For Oslo: Anders C. Shaastad, Kai Ekanger and Heikki Holmås For Sogn and Fjordane County: Gunn Steinhovden For the Telemark counties: Thorleif Vikre For Vestfold County: Anders Anundsen 3rd@item: inlistbox Terje Søviknes, Magnar Lussand, Heikki Holmås and Anders Anundsen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Hans J. Røsjorde, John Dale, Lisbet Rugtvedt and Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e178	Kai Ekanger is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e188	The President will propose the election of presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e193	I propose Per Ove Width, Øyvind Korsberg and Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e198	Per Ove Width, Øyvind Korsberg and Kenneth Svendsen are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width, Øyvind Korsberg and Kenneth Svendsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings. The representative of Thore Aksel Nistad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e203	I will, on behalf of Hans J. Røsjorde, Christopher Stensaker, Terje Knudsen and myself, be allowed to submit a proposal for an alternative sailing route to the port of Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e209	The representative of Ursula Evje will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e212	On behalf of the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on currency compensation for students studying abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e217	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e238	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Tore Tønne State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Council Olav Akselsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e257	I want to ask a question to the Council of State Olav Akselsen. It concerns gas power plants. In the additional message to St.meld. No 8, Government Environmental Protection Policy and State of the State, St.meld. No 33, says the Government that it is not necessary to amend the pollution law in order to convert the emission permits of the planned polluting gas power plants. The law department, in its famous opinion of 6 March, states that there can be quite serious legal objections to granting emission permits under the pollution law, unless one has a high degree of certainty about an approximate corresponding reduction in emissions elsewhere. When the Government will now convert the emissions permits, a clear measure should be taken to ensure that the total CO2 emissions will not increase. These include: this is a pre-requisite of the law department. However, the government has come up with 20 words about what they will do in the field of climate — and no new action. I cannot help but understand that the government, by not following up the law department's assumption, can be in danger of acting contrary to the pollution law, unless the climate requirements of the new gas power stations are completely clear. What are the climate requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e266	When it comes to the issue of law enforcement in relation to gas power plants, one of the Labour Party's parties has tended to claim that there is no need for legislative changes. We now believe that the investigations carried out in the department show that there was a position on which it was based. Of course, when it comes to climate issues, the Labour Party – the cause, Norway – must have an offensive attitude, regardless of the issue of the construction of gas power plants. As long as we were in government, there was an offensive effort to carry out the climate negotiations – worker party government had an offensive attitude and was a driving force in that work. I want to remind you that the center party, as it was then in opposition, was opponents of much of what eventually became the Kyoto agreement. Fortunately, they've changed their hold on that point later, so that they too now support the intentions of the climate agreement. There is now a work going on to see how Norway should comply with its obligations. It's coming, among other things. when a person is talking about the allowance trading system that is out to the ears these days, and where one wants an offensive hold on to it. In fact, when it comes to gas casks, all the professional bodies in Norway that said about this, claimed that if a gas power was given in Norway, the emission would go down. It has per cent. Today, there were no research institutions or public institutions in this area that have claimed anything else, so we assume that climate change would go down if a building gas power plant in Norway, simply because they want to push more impurity into other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e277	I fully agree with the Council of State that the Workers' Party may need a more offensive position on this issue. I record that the Council of State has little concrete to say. In order to ensure that an operator operates under the pollution law and in relation to the opinion of the law department, it is appropriate to demonstrate the emission reduction to be achieved elsewhere or by the Government’s actions. So it's not there. There are 20 words about this in an additional communication – 20 words and no concrete action. And I record that here neither can the Council of State say anything more about what concrete measures the Workers' Party will propose. But I'd like to give him another chance. The majority of the size — including the Working Party — has said that trading in allowances and other types of measures should be complementary to the main gravity, which should be national measures. How has the Workers' Party intended to ensure that we fulfil our Kyoto obligations when we – without gas power plants – face an increase of 23 pst.? Are Norwegian drivers paying more in the petrol tax? [[The President clubs.]] Is the powerful industry – Odda, Sauda – going to take more? [[The President clubs again.]] Is it the socket that's going to take more? What will the measures be?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e286	The President shall request that requests remain within the specified time limit of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e289	We can take the discussion about who has been offensive and not in this matter. As long as the Labour Party sat with the Governing Board, inter alia: Under the Jagland government, there was an offensive hold to get into these Kyoto agreements. The international community actually supports the schemes that Norway was at the time prejudiced, and that I would like to remind the asker that the center was opposed. Center then meant that all emissions would occur within Norway’s borders. It would be interesting to know what the results would be. The Kyoto Agreement is an international agreement, so there is a need to see more countries together. We think one should use all the tools in the Kyoto agreement to achieve the goals set there. After all, we want a number of measures in Norway, there are things I'm working on. [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e296	Yes, the time limit within the Regulation also applies to Councils of State. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e301	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Health Tore Tønne. When Stoltenberg appointed his new government, Tore Tønne was one of the most positive and exciting names, and it gave promises of the ability and willingness to modernise the public sector, not least the hospital sector. Therefore, I hope that Tore Tønne is also willing to follow up in practice. In the case of our hospitals, someone has an organization called AS. This concerns Lovisenberg Hospital in Oslo, and it has proved very effective and successful. Why will the Workers' Party and Tore Tønne prevent other hospitals and hospital owners who want to use this special organisational model from doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e311	First of all, I would like to say that the question of the future organisation of hospitals is now being dealt with in Stortinget on the basis of an odelstingsproposition presented by the previous government. I'm going to be careful about dealing with it myself, but there are at least suggestions about the possibility of establishing county hospitals – and most importantly in the hospital sector today – as their own legal entities. I think that is a very important step on the road towards – let's say – the release of hospitals in relation to today's situation with the county councils as owner. With regard to the issue of limited liability companies in this sector, there is nothing to prevent the non-publicly owned hospitals from being established as limited liability companies, as the representative here refers to. As far as public hospitals are concerned, I have stated that it is very important that the responsibility for this sector is a public responsibility and an exclusive public responsibility. The Share Act has many important and correct principles regarding the management of legal entities primarily in the business sector, but also in a number of other sectors. These provisions are highly practical within the proposals for legal entities currently in existence. I am sceptical that the provisions of the Share Act on limited liability for the owner should apply in public hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e318	This is an important matter, not least for Oslo County. It's less and less important to the population who owns the hospital. The most important thing is that the hospital offers services that benefit all citizens. So Lovisenberg, the third largest hospital in Oslo, is being used by this model, which has been successful, while Oslo's second largest hospital, Aker, which serves the same audience, is currently being prevented from using this model. The main difference between the AS model and the County Corporate Model is that the Share Act provides a unique opportunity for financial management, financial control. The accounting principles laid down in the Accounting Act, which have long traditions in Norway, can be used. Just when we know that financial management is the main problem of public hospitals, I would like to hear Mr. Tøn's answer to how to solve this concrete problem of economic follow-up, as can be seen in the Share Act, but not for municipal enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e325	I therefore believe that the proposal now under consideration in Stortinget opens up the possibility of getting hospital companies as independent legal entities, where the possibilities for, for example, are available. financial management will be the same as in a limited liability company. It will be possible to manage and manage hospitals in accordance with the same rules, and there will be accounts in accordance with the provisions of the Accounting Act. But the main difference that the representative here does not mention is that the limited liability company has as its basic idea to limit the liability of the owner for the legal entity. I believe that as long as we have, after all, a situation in which the public is responsible for the hospitals, and we believe that it must be an undivided responsibility, it is self-contradictory to introduce a form of company which, as a basis, limits public responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e333	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e336	The council has in the meantime given an answer to some of the things I had intended to ask about, but I still want to ask him about a few things. A basic idea in relation to a limited liability company should be to operate on the basis of commercial principles and that there should also be room for bankruptcy. Does the Council of State see such restrictions on the use of the hospital share company model that it would actually be very difficult to manage the operation of hospitals on such a model in practice? In addition, I would like to ask: the Council of State sees it as possible to use the Accounting Act also in relation to models other than the form of a limited liability company, for example. municipal enterprises or municipal companies, so that you can do what the Right-Representative here says, without using the share company model?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e345	I can confirm that with the implementation of the proposal now in the UK on the organisation of hospital companies as independent county legal entities, it will be open to both keeping accounts according to the principles of the Accounting Act and implementing governance, financial management, etc. at those hospitals in practice in accordance with the same principles as those of the Share Act. However, as the representative points out, the Share Act has the basic idea that the liability of the owner is limited. It also states that limited liability companies can go bankrupt. It's not a paper determination, it's a real provision, and I'm very concerned about opening up a practice where it's at all possible for public hospitals to go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e350	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e353	I agree with the Minister of Health that hospitals are a public responsibility. But we see that in social-democratic Sweden they are now trying out the AS model, and I could imagine hearing what the Minister of Health thinks about it. What is going on in Sweden should probably also go on in Norway. Does not the Minister of Health also see that the overall state responsibility for funding and division of tasks between hospitals combined with local freedom to organise as they see fit will provide patients with better and faster treatment? And the responsibility is placed where the responsibility belongs: in the Government and in the Stortinget. The disclaimer and the blackmail we now see between the state and the county council are losing patients. Will the Minister of Health consider whether the responsibility should lie with the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e362	I have had the opportunity to discuss hospital organisation with Swedish colleagues, and it is right that models that can also be tested in Norway are tested. And I underline: I have not distanced myself from the fact that private hospitals can also be organised as share companies. As pointed out here, we have examples of that today. That's not the problem. But I don't know any examples of experimenting with public owned hospitals as corporations. On the contrary, I have had many questions about it at all can be a particularly topical way to go. Then I came to the other comment the representative had, about the very discharge. I'm not just against disclaimer, but I'm against the limitation of liability for the public owners of the hospitals. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e371	The President has to deal with speech limitations. John I. Alvheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e376	It is surprising that a case is being dealt with in Stortinget. It has been unusual, and came a little surprising to me, but once the matter has been raised, I have a question for the Minister of Health. The hospital company shall not be responsible for the collective agreements. When we know that over 70 pst. of the expenditure in a hospital is compensation of employees, it is a handicap for a hospital company that it does not control this. Nor is it permitted for a hospital company to separate into its own AS-service functions, which may be necessary, and which are practised more and more abroad in relation to private hospitals. These are two things that separate hospital companies from AS, so these are not the possibilities of a municipal hospital company as they are in an AS. When it comes to bankruptcy, I have little faith in it. It's just a scare shot. I hope this is the beginning of something that you can go on with, and there I have very great faith in the current Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e388	I am also somewhat surprised that this is almost a debate on a matter that is being discussed in Stortinget. And when an experienced representative like Alvheim points out that, I will be further careful to comment on the matter. When I chose to comment on the issue of the organisation of hospitals as a share company, it is among other things. because I have already spoken publicly about the question and expressed the concerns I have, as I have said, about such an organisation. On the issue of collective bargaining agreements, which the representative of Alvheim raised, I would prefer to await the discussion in the Committee and in the Stortinget. When Alvheim says that this thing with bankruptcy is just a scare shot, I can understand it. But at the same time, it is not a paper clause that there is a limitation on the liability of the owner in limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e399	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e402	In the March 29 issue this year, I asked the Minister of Health what he could do in relation to the boycott action that the nurses have put into action in connection with the Norwegian hospital service during the summer months, which will lead to major operating problems for most hospitals. The Health Minister replied at the time that he wanted to contact the Municipal Councils to get an overview of operational problems that could arise as a result of the action. Hospitals have suggested that if the action is maintained, between 1000 and 1500 somatic hospitals will be out of service in the summer months of July, August and half of September. Can the Minister of Health today confirm that the consequences of this boycott action can be as serious as I have just indicated, and what emergency plans does the Minister of Health have to meet this situation? It is natural that my question goes to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e409	It is true that at that time I said that I would contact the hospital owners to get a better overview of the consequences of such actions, because, as I then also stressed, if it had been contractual that had gone to such actions, they would have been illegal. That's not the case here, because it's the students who have reported these actions. What has been done since then is that I have made the contact that I announced at the time, also through the Health Authority. A letter has been sent to all hospital owners to notify them of their assessment of what might become the situation if such actions are carried out. We want an overview of this at the end of this month. I can therefore at this stage not exactly confirm the extent or seriousness of the situation other than saying that there is every reason to believe that such an action, if implemented, will have serious consequences. But I don't have an overview of the extent at this point. A time limit has been set for feedback at the end of the month. It is quite natural that the level of preparedness measures that will then be assessed will also be adapted to those of hospital feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e416	I thank you for the answer, but I think it was a little too defensive on the part of the Minister of Health. The holiday settlement starts in mid-June, so we don't have much time. 1500 somatic hospitals out of operation during the summer months will result in the most significant cessation of elective activities in our somatic hospitals, especially in surgical wards, but also in medical facilities. This in turn will lead to a serious pressure on deposits as immediate help. Neither the Minister of Health nor the Stortinge may or should enter into the very foundations of the boycott, but it is both the absolute responsibility of the Minister of Health and of the Stortinge that patients in this situation are not congested. My question is: Has the Minister of Health considered contacting our nearest neighbouring country, possibly England and Germany, in order to establish an air bridge for severe patients who are under treatment for the duration of the conflict, so that fewer human lives are lost during this action?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e427	Firstly, I must say that it follows from the nature of the matter that preparedness measures against announced actions must necessarily be defensive. But I don't want to add that we have a defensive attitude to meet the problems that such a bid action can travel. Now it is also the case that the problems which this can create must be dealt with primarily by individual employers and those directly responsible for the operation of hospitals. We have some experience with the problems associated with the resolution of summer vacations at the hospitals anyway, and the limitations that it requires. I have the impression that they also have a work going on to look at the possibilities they have to find other solutions if – I stress if – the action is implemented and successful. I have not taken any initiative in relation to the rest of the world of the nature the representative asks about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e436	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e439	I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. It may be unusual to bring agricultural negotiations into the spontaneous Question Time at a time when the negotiations are going on, but given that a few weeks ago a settlement was concluded between the centre parties and the Workers' Party here in Stortinget, I still find reason to do so. The offer made by the State violates the Storting policy in three areas. Prices were cut more than what the Stortinget fixed. The agreement was based on the need to ensure that food prices were lower, while at the same time this was to be compensated by a deduction from the tax. And since this tax deduction would serve the small uses, it was set up to adjust the structural profile of the district grants. In what we have now seen, prices are cut more than what the Stortinget fixed. Compensations have been proposed for half a year and not for an entire year in the tax deduction to be introduced now and the grants favour more use than the adjustment should be made. What is the background to the presentation of an offer that violates those degrees with the agreement that was made in the Stortinge two weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e450	The government's starting point is, of course, that the offer we have made in this year's agricultural settlement is within the guidelines drawn up by the Storting. I have seen in the media that there has been a good deal of debate on this with the target price reductions and the tax deduction. After all, there is a direct link in the notification and in the Storting treatment between reduced target prices and a new tax deduction. But this year's agricultural agreement works from 1 July of this year to 1 July of next year. This means that the cut in the target prices will only have half an impact in 2000. In this respect, the Government considers it entirely reasonable that the tax deduction should also be halved in the year 2000. According to the statement made by the Storting in the decision of the Food Committee, ‘a tax-based deduction of income is to be introduced which compensates for the reduced target prices’. And when we get half the reduction in the target prices this year, the government will aim to introduce a new tax system for agriculture on its own from 1 January 2000, but give it half the effect, i.e. a deduction of NOK 18 000 in the first year. But then it will have full effect in 2001, because the reduction in target prices will have full effect in 2001. Otherwise, of course, I would agree with the representative, Mr Enoksen, that it would be difficult for me to address all the possible details of the agricultural settlement. We're in a negotiating position. It is an offer made by the State, and it is clear that it is to be negotiated here. Then we'll come back and evaluate the result when those negotiations, hopefully, have led to an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e457	It is explicitly stated both in the wholesale notification and in the suspension that the deduction of income shall apply retroactively from the year in which the target prices are reduced. This has also led to the treatment of the Storting. However, predictability should also be a key word in relation to the agricultural industry. It has also been said that agriculture should be guaranteed income development in line with other social groups. Is it the Minister of Agriculture's view that the offer made to the industry is in line with this objective and is the aim of the Government's further work on agricultural policy? When I ask about this, it's because it was at the bottom of the whole deal that was concluded, and it's of course of interest to hear if the government is still standing by what you agreed with the center about two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e464	Let me first make it clear that when Enoch says that what we do with taxes is not in line with the position of the nutrition committee, I disagree with that. I quoted the introduction of a tax-based income deduction that compensates for the reduced target prices. The approach of the Enoxens, as it is now being put forward, will result in a tax deduction twice the target price reductions of the year, and it is not in the position of the Enterprise Committee. To the second question, yes, we are stuck to the income statements. We also insist on the formulations of the Committee to which the Central Party has attached that there are limitations in the scope for future generation of income action; and «good use of market opportunities, increased diversity, a balanced market, structural changes and reasonable cost adjustments will increasingly affect the achievement of such income developments». I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e477	There will be follow-up questions - Jon Lilletun
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e480	It also applies to agricultural negotiations, and I respect the fact that the Council of State cannot go into many details. This is so fresh, and it was such a thorough work on the conciliation in the committee that there are many of us who participated in it, who react quite strongly. I also refer to what the distinguished case spokesperson, Gunnar Breimo, has said about this tax treatment. I will quote from the Council of State the text of the message, to which the Council of State has joined: ‘However, the deduction of income will be proposed with retroactive effect in the sense that the deduction takes effect before and after. 1 January of the year in which the target prices are reduced in the agricultural negotiations. The sample effect of the deduction can be estimated at between 600 and 700 million. kr. and therefore a target price reduction is proposed to an equivalent extent.’» I feel that the government is picking parts of a setting, that it's not a whole context. I only announce on behalf of the Christian People's Party that we do not accept that one interprets itself away from what was a deal, the day the final result comes to Stortinget. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] - I'm asking for cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e498	Forgiveness may be present, but we'll have to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e501	At least I shouldn't be the one giving it or not. But to what Lilletun says, of course, I hear the seriousness of what is being presented. At the same time, I must once again be allowed to come back and say, when the representative Lilletun and the Christian People's Party have also said that a tax system is to be introduced to compensate for reductions in target prices, and when the reductions in target prices have half the impact in 2000, that there is nowhere, either in the wholesale notification or in the suspension, that Norwegian agriculture should be given a general non-return tax deduction in the year 2000. It is directly linked to a target price grip implemented with half effect in 2000. We then compensate with half of the impact in 2000, and 650 million. kr has a pre-tax effect of 900 million.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e508	Johan J. Jakobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e511	It is almost incredible to hear the Minister of Agriculture's interpretation of what is both in the message and in the setting, because the setting goes into – it is even used the expression 'joins'. And if it was the case that the majority of the Stortinget believed that one joined something other than what is in the message, then it had to be said clearly and clearly from about. We have now heard that the rapporteur has a different view from that of the Council of State, even representatives of parties who opposed this element in the agricultural communication, agree with the interpretation that, among other things, The rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, Mr Breimo, has provided the basis for this. However, I would like to address a slightly more serious aspect of the matter, because this means that the Labour Party, the Labour Party Government and the Minister of Agriculture do not respect what is perceived as an agreement and a settlement and a compromise. Does the Minister of Agriculture see the possible consequences for other issues in the Storting if it is that the opposition parties cannot rely on agreements and compromises, including joint comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e518	Let me first say that I have discussed this issue with the case rapporteur several times, and we are fully in agreement on the statements I make here. Secondly, if it had been so that the government at all did not take into account majority voting from the Storting, the government would of course have no good cause. My starting point is that the offer we have made in the agricultural negotiations is within what the vote sets out in the future agricultural policy. And I feel that I have explained quite thoroughly about this in particular with the tax deduction, where I have never seen any pronouncement – nor the representative Jakobsen – that Norwegian farmers in the first half of 2000 will receive a general tax deduction without any return. There's always been connections to target prices, and it's followed to the point and the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e527	Admits Gabrielsen to follow-up questions. The President would remind you that committee treatment should normally take place in committee rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e532	That's what I'm going to do. There have been no more than 14 days since we discussed the agricultural notification and Norwegian agricultural policy for the next ten years, and the ramifications between the centre and the Workers' Party were so clumsy that they didn't even repeat each other. But now – 12-14 days later – you disagree about everything. Hanssen is talking about that the presented is within this agreement, while everyone from the center says it's outside. And it's as well-knownly impossible to be both outside and inside at the same time. My question is: Shouldn't the Council of State Hanssen have listened to former case rapporteur Hanssen, who, in order to avoid this, would draw the message and present a separate message about what the Workers' Party stood for? Those who are affected by this are Norwegian farmers, of course, who do not know either out or in. In the last ten seconds, I want to say, in relation to the agricultural structure that is going on, that I have read and seen the demands of the organisations, I have seen Hanssen's proposals. I don't think he should have four inches. That being said, I understand that the center is frustrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e543	To the end, it is clear that we are in a negotiating situation, and there is a real negotiating situation that means that we arrive at the weekend some exciting hours are coming together. Our wish is, of course, to reach an agreement with the agricultural organisations, and we are also prepared to contribute to that. In this way I must probably disappoint the representative Gabrielsen, who also in this year's government budget on behalf of the Right actually suggested that you should not cut 400 million. DKK in the agricultural agreement of the year, but DKK 2.4 billion. As you can see, there is quite a gap between the Labour Party and the Right Agricultural Policy. That's why I, as the Council of State, feel very comfortable with the fact that we've made a run in the Stortinget where we're going to try to build an alliance with the centre also in future agricultural policy. But it will be demanding, difficult and challenging. I also told about that in Stortinget when we had the debate on the suspension. But now we see the outcome of the debate, and then we get to take the debate on it when it actually has to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e548	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e552	I want to address my question to the Minister of Health. The size plan has been adopted for psychiatry, with the aim of improving psychiatric services both at the institutions and outside the municipalities. So now it turns out that an ear of the new resources is not being deployed to strengthen psychiatric institutions within the escalation plan we're in. This has a number of practical consequences. Dikemark Hospital in Asker is scheduled to leave three posts in the summer to reduce the deficit, and it affects 30 patients with severe mental illness. Because it takes a long time to get out of town in spite of the fact that money is gradually being spent there, a number of patients will be hit and left unsolicited. I want to ask the Minister of Health what he intends to do with the situation that has now arisen, in order for these patients to have a decent offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e561	There is no doubt that there is a lack of psychiatry services, a lack of services for people with severe mental health problems in Norway. This is also largely due to the adoption of a stepping-up plan for public supply in psychiatry. I don't think it's right to claim that the escalation that's now going on is not going to benefit this sector. On the contrary, we have a pretty good feedback that it does. We're implementing the escalation plan so that the targets set for this, including by the Storting, are achieved, but there's a escalation that necessarily has to go over a long time. It is also provided for in the plan as adopted at Stortinget. This plan focuses primarily on the development of municipal housing services in the municipal and local sectors. It is also true, in this plan, that there is no equivalent benefit for part of the institutions to which the representative refers. There are questions that we have to deal with in another way, and that's the way questions I have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e570	I hear what the council says. I record that in childhood and youth psychiatry, we have faced the situation of, for example, Children’s and youth psychiatry centres in Oslo have had to discontinue treatment related to eating disorders due to staff shortages. But staff shortages, in turn, are linked to resource shortages, lack of resources. And, in particular, child and youth psychiatry has been hard hit for many years, with some total lack of provision for those with mental health problems. The government’s response to the revised government budget is to propose a cut of 38 million. Dr, linked to paediatric psychiatry. I would like to ask the Council of State how it is supposed that a stepping up plan will act as a stepping up plan if what the Government is taking the initiative to do is step down instead of stepping up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e579	I would like to repeat that there is actually an escalation within psychiatry, as it is also provided for in the Storting's decision on this plan. In the case of staff shortages, it is true that there is a very important aspect to this. Reference has also been made to as a restriction factor in the implementation of the real measures. However, it turns out that so far we do not have so many problems in getting personnel to implement the measures to be implemented, as it may have been foreseen. On the contrary, we have relatively good feedback on increasing access to the type of staff that this is about. I would also like to say that there is a priority given to child and youth psychiatry in the implementation of the escalation plan, but – as I have also said – it takes time to implement these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e586	There will be follow-up questions - Ola D. Lukewarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e589	What's happening in psychiatry is very worrying. And it's now extra worrying if the big institutions have to close down their departments because of lack of resources, and not least because of staff shortages in terms of holiday settlement. What is happening now is that the funds to go to primary health services have not been made available. There is a shortage of personnel, resources and construction systems, which means that the efforts that should be in the primary health service have not yet started well enough. Another thing I would like to get the health minister's comment on is that with input-driven funding, the so-called unit-price financing, within the somatic hospitals, county councils and hospital owners are both directly and indirectly encouraged to give priority to the somatic sick, who are again at the expense of the psychiatry and the large institutions to be there within the 2nd line service. I want to hear the Minister of Health's comments on it, plus this because there's still too little commitment to primary health services, where most people are staying, not least in childhood and youth psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e596	Once again, I have no problem agreeing that there is a serious situation in the psychiatry. I believe that the measures resulting from the phasing out plan adopted will over time relieve them, and we must have confidence that we will thereby achieve the objectives set. But we have to admit that this takes time. There have been problems with staff access. It takes time to meet them, but I now think despite the fact that the feedback we get on that particular question is quite encouraging. There are also funds for investment in hospital places in this sector, and we will probably also see that it will produce results. But once again, we have to admit that this takes time. When priority has been given to municipal and county measures, it is also because it should ease the pressure on the larger institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e605	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e608	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. In the gas power case, the new government came into full confrontation with the environmental movement. The Prime Minister promised that the Government would concentrate on building a better relationship with the environmental movement during the handling of future issues. That hasn't happened. In the budget is the new, heavy eco-cut, and last week there was a signal from the Government that was met with resistance from the environmental movement. This is about the clear signal for the construction of the Beiarn watercourse in Northernland. What is the reason why the Council of State could not contribute to the creation of a new impact assessment for this watercourse, as it is a broad desire for local, and as an overall environmental movement requires? The previous impact assessment is close to 20 years old and not in line with today's environmental standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e615	I should have said, in my first reply today, that it is the Minister for the Environment who is responsible for the follow-up to the gas-fired sac and the follow-up to these international agreements. What has happened until now is that the government has given feedback to Stortinget before the deadline, that there was no need to change the laws in that area. When it's about the Beiarn expansion, I have to admit that I'm surprised by the question and the angle. When we discussed gas power plants, there was a lot of debate about the jessen. One was asked if one could carry out his policy in the majority, because there was a dispute about Norwegian legislation in this area. In the case of the Beiarn watercourse, there is no legal doubt. In fact, this matter has been dealt with. The majority agreed to expand as early as 1987, and the King of State Council gave a concession in 1989. Such a concession is binding, permanently binding and cannot be converted. So that's why Statkraft has the power to expand according to the concessions given, i.e. full expansion. In the meantime, however, Statkraft has asked for a smaller extension, an extension with less intervention, and I could not see that there was a basis for saying no to that application. Another reason I'm surprised that the center party is dealing with this matter is that the question of the Beiarn watercourse was in the previous government for over a year. In other words, the previous government had more than 365 days to deal with this matter and give her another outcome. I'm absolutely sure that when there was no initiative from the previous government, and there was no other outcome, it was simply because the juse here is so binding that there was no alternative. Therefore, this matter was not dealt with by the previous government. I could not find a basis for waiting for that issue when the result was still given.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e624	I have registered that Olav Aksensen has said that he joined the Workers' Party because of the Alta case. This is a rather eye-catching position in a matter where Gro Harlem Brundtland has said that one made a mistake. On that basis, I might not have reason to expect the great commitment to the protection of valuable watercourses. Even if the jeez is stuck here, there's still the possibility of running politics, and it's along the path I challenge the Council of State. What was the reason why one did not want to signal to Statkraft that one should make an impact assessment even if one was not required to do so? I can assure you that the previous government was working for something completely different from what this government is doing. Here only a few weeks are needed to conclude in another matter in the environmental disfavor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e632	What I have to do when it comes to the previous government is that it couldn't handle this case, even if they had over a year. I take that as a signal that they didn't have to come as much as they did, because the case was decided on the basis of legal frameworks. The size has agreed that this river can be expanded. The King of the Council of State has given a concession. This operation cannot be undone. Even if I wanted to, I could do nothing but say yes to a reduced extension, which has now been applied for. So one of course could claim that it was nice if Statkraft made a new impact statement here. But that wouldn't have changed the situation, because Statkraft has already been granted a concession to build up this watercourse. Therefore, new impact assessments would not have changed those realities. Here's a concession. That concession is the binding spirit, and it is so that it can cork the Stortinget or the King in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e641	There will be follow-up questions – Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e644	I agree with the Council of State that the central government could of course have done something for itself in this matter. They could have stopped her and got an impact statement. They didn't. But now the Labour Party kind of sees the pace again. So one had the previous impact statement on the Beiarn watercourse in 1979. Since then, one of them has been using large funds. to strengthen the wildstock in Beiarn. I have to ask the Council of State: is it not then in that context natural to look at for example. what will be the outcome of an extension in relation to the wild axe strain? Isn't there a logical consequence of a resource being used to strengthen the wild strain?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e651	I'm actually disagreed with the questioner. Langeland says that the previous government could have done something. I don't think that was actually possible. If they could, I think they would have. But here, the laws are clear: the concessions are granted, and Statkraft has the right to expand. What they've applied for now is a reduced development that results in less environmental interventions. I couldn't see that there was a basis for saying no to minor environmental interventions, as Statkraft has now wanted. When it comes to the situation in this river in terms of salmon, it's like the Jagland government put down a selection to look at the situation of the wild axis in Norway. This selection went through our salmon industry and suggested a good deal of concrete measures, including: the introduction of national salmon watercourses, taking care of the main watercourses. Child not mentioned in that context. Of course, it was important to take care of the wild and I am pleased that the new government – unlike the previous one – has now proposed that the Storting should introduce the principle of national salmon watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e660	Hilde Frafjord Johnson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e663	This case is a new case where the Workers' Party is on a collision and confrontation course in relation to an overall environmental movement. What is the big concern is the situation of the salmon strain. And one of the reasons why this watercourse was not part of the national salmoncourse plan and the work of the sample was, among other things. that it has been treated with rotenone. Now the salmon strain is on its way up, and this could be one of the really big and beautiful salmon rivers in Norway. The central government took time to see if we could find a solution to the problems associated, among other things. to the legal proceedings of the Council of State. And the center government spent time trying to find an environmental trail that we could follow. The Labour Party government has been beating this matter through at fast and fast speed, and this has been perceived as a provocation by a great many in the environmental movement and in the communities concerned. But we could have had a situation where this watercourse had been incorporated into the work of the National Salmon Committee. I would like to have the State Council's comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e672	I disagree that the new government has not spent time on this matter. It is also the case that the Minister for the Environment went through this matter to see if it was possible to do anything. When one realized that there is no other outcome than what the Government has now entered into, we found no reason to sit on this case and train it further. The extension of this watercourse has been authorised. There is no one who can drag it back. When it's a reality, I can't believe that the government needed more time than one has ever done. The Labour Party government will have an offensive policy when it comes to protecting the wild. But I have to repeat that this eleven has not been mentioned in this context. So I'm going to say that in connection with the energy message, it was a goal for large parts of this hall, including the center part, to increase the hydropower expansion in Norway to get more environmentally friendly power.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e681	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e684	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Agriculture. It was the outgoing Bondevik government that provided the agricultural message. But since the current government did not draw that message, it must be assumed that the agricultural notification is also the policy of this government. But then there are signals from the ongoing agricultural settlement and the offer made by the State. Then I'm beginning to doubt what's really the government's policy. I would like to ask the Council of State: is it the agricultural message and the Central Party's agricultural romantic policy that apply to this government as well, or will you now start looking at farmers as self-employed in food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e693	What is, of course, the starting point for the offer made by the State in the agricultural negotiations of the year is the treatment carried out by the Stortinget on 9 May, which adopted the position attached to the reference to which the representative refers. In my opinion, it is a position that is well suited as an agricultural policy instrument in the years to come, because it assumes that Norwegian farmers are self-employed who have a responsibility for their own income – i.e. not ordinary employees – while, unlike the representative’s party, it assumes that agriculture has more functions than just producing food. It therefore addresses all the agricultural tasks in relation to important common resources in Norwegian society. And so it is clear that the Council of State feels very comfortable with the attitude that we are now working hard to express, hopefully through an agreement with the agricultural organisations on an agricultural agreement for 2000-2001. It is clear that that agricultural policy is very different from the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. After all, the Progress Party has proposed to halve agricultural transfers in one year through several budgetary procedures, i.e. cut agricultural transfers by DKK 6 billion in one year. The State has submitted an offer involving a reduction of 400 million. kr, as a basis for negotiation, so here it is likely that there will still be a significant difference between questions and answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e700	I am in every joy that the Workers' Party begins in that direction, and I hope they go on. The Council of State mentioned in its reply that Norwegian farmers are regarded as self-employed, and that is why it is interesting when you go to politics here. As far as I know, there is no other self-employed person who has the advantage that they have in agriculture, both in terms of compensation for holidays and a number of other measures. But I want to address a slightly different problem in relation to that particular piece. When the agreement with agriculture is in the process of being concluded in the context of the agricultural notification, possibly in place, a tax deduction of NOK 36 000 will be applied from 1 January next year to bring down food prices in Norway. See the Councils of State the problem it poses for competing activities, including: in seafood production? There is not the angle and benefits that agriculture will gain, and there is a distortion of competition against agriculture, so that they get additional benefits in terms of price, unlike those that produce seafood. Does the Minister for Agriculture see this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e710	No, not immediately, I must admit that, for what is the starting point for the price and tax treatment, is that the Nordics are also eating their amount of meat today, and they are eating more if they get access to cheap meat, and less if the price gets too high. What is the problem today is that the Norwegians define the price of the Norwegian meat market as too high, but that doesn't mean you start eating fish, which leads to driving to Sweden and selling meat there. What we're doing through this price-and-tax approach is starting work to reduce the price of some important agricultural-based foods, with a view to increasing the size of the Norwegian meat market by reducing border trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e715	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e720	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President finds it necessary to inform him, on the basis of Rule 53(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The third term, the last term, has determined that only one supplementary question will be raised after the main question has been answered. It is considered necessary for the current map to be completed within the scheduled time of the morning meeting. Furthermore, the President will announce that there will be a wide range of changes in the set-up of the question list and will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Health. Question 2, from the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Health. Question 3, from the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Finance. At the request of the Minister of Finance, this question was moved and answered before question 12* * Question 12, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister of Finance, was subsequently withdrawn, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 4, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Defence who directs him. Questions 5, 6 and 7 from the representatives of Inger Lise Husøy, Ivar Østberg and Einar Steensnæs respectively to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs who has left. Question 8, from the representative Odd Roger Enoxsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 11, from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade representative Steinar Bastesen, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for Transport, this question is moved and answered before question 19, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 15 and 16 from the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg and Lars Rise respectively to the Minister for Health are moved and answered, at the request of the Minister for Health, in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 15 will be raised by the representative, Mr Svendsen, on behalf of the representative, Mr Korsberg. Question 17, from the representative Ola T. Loan to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Church, Education and Research, this question is moved and answered before question 40, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 18, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 23, from the representative Sigrun Eng to the Minister for Fisheries, has been withdrawn. Questions 24, 25, 26 and 27, from the representatives of Steinar Bastesen, Brother Yngve Rahm, Ivar Østberg and Harald T. Nesvik, respectively, to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has left. Question 34, from the representative John Dale to the Minister for the Environment, will be raised by the representative Ola D. Glötvold. Questions 36, 37 and 35, from the representatives Ansgar Gabrielsen, Tor Nymo and Øystein Hedstrøm to the Minister for Agriculture respectively, were moved and answered before question 1 to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 38, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister for Justice, was moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 27, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 39, from the representative Lars Rise to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered in response to question 27, to be answered by the same Council of State. * Question 39 was answered after question 29 *
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e768	The first questions to be answered after these changes are questions 36, 35 and 37, from the representatives Ansgar Gabrielsen, Øystein Hedstrøm and Tor Nymo respectively to the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e774	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘Through the media, it has been known that a unanimous sales council supported the decision to paint large quantities of pigmeat into animal feed, inter alia, in order to prevent lower consumer prices. The Ministry of Agriculture’s representative, who is the head of the Turnover Council, thus supported the decision. Will the Council of State instruct the representative of the Ministry to act in such a way as to contribute to a greater increase in overproduction leading to cheaper food for consumers instead of the food being ground up for animal feed or destroyed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e783	It is the Council which adopts the application of any market regulation measures in the agricultural sector and, if so, the measures to be applied within the limits laid down by the authorities. I would like to stress that the decisions taken by the Management Board in this matter are within the framework set by the authorities, and we stress on the part of the Department that our representative is not instructed in individual cases by the Management Board. However, I am concerned that there is also an assessment of the possibilities in the Norwegian market and not only of exports when there is a surplus problem. Not least for the general political understanding of our regulatory systems, it would be positive if a more conscious effort were made to exploit the potential for provisioning measures that could benefit Norwegian consumers, such as: cheap meat sales. In this context, I would like to refer to the signals that were given by my side in the matter raised by the representative Gabrielsen, which led to the scheme not being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e790	For many years we have had a strong overproduction, especially of pork and beef. Last year, 19 million kg went to dumped sales – 10-20 trailerlass per year. In the United Kingdom, the number of drug users entering treatment increased during the last week. The Sales Council has been responsible for all of this market area, which is the most regulated we have in the country, and the least successful. It has to be pretty definite. What I would like to ask the Council of State is whether he agrees with me on the effects of this overproduction – that it leads to a higher allocation requirement in the agricultural agreement, that it leads to higher food prices, and that the farmer receives lower income. I understand that so it's actually up to NOK 3 per cent. kg net of the farmer who is involved in pigs and who is to finance it, so that all parties lose sight of what is going on and have taken place since the mid-1990s, despite the fact that the public is in charge of it. And the last question, who gains from the situation we're in?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e799	Let me first just say that there was a very special situation in 1999, when you were on a much higher volume than what you've done both in the years before and what you'll do in the years to come. The situation descriptions with nearly 20 million. * shall be the ‘thousand’, see the stellar correction under the next question* tonnes of meat will not be the reality of the coming years. But this year, too, there will be talk about as much as 6 million.* tonnes, so that there is significant quantity. It is clear that there is every reason to be concerned about this issue, but at the same time it is very important – in relation to the main issue – that this is the industry's own responsibility. So the council won't instruct, because it means in many ways to take over responsibility. I would therefore like to take part in the debate and challenge the industry in relation to thinking about the Norwegian market also related to overproduction, with the aim of increasing the Norwegian market.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e812	I have the following questions for our Minister of Agriculture: ‘In 2000, it will be impossible for Norwegian meat producers to export away from the problems of surplus, because the WTO limits the possibility of using export subsidies. 2 000 tonnes of the meat mountain were downgraded to animal feed to keep the price to consumers up, but this was transformed due to severe reactions. Will the Council of State contribute to the placing of surplus meat on cheap sales as part of the reduction of meat surplus and borderline leakage and to the provision of fairer food to consumers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e821	Let me just first say that in my answer to Gabrielsen, I used the terms millions of tons of meat, so that's a thousand tons of meat. Governments are aware of the difference, so at least that's said. So to the answer to Hedstrom. In accordance with the Agreement on Agriculture, it is the responsibility of agriculture to cover the costs of overproduction of agricultural products. The industry must therefore be given the responsibility and opportunity to define and implement the necessary measures within the limits set by the authorities. Several measures have been implemented, such as a reduction in the market price, the previous depopulation of pigs and bovine animals and the reduction of the total slaughter rate through the depopulation of dams. In the case of cheap sales and, more importantly, a generally lower price level of Norwegian meat, we will be able to increase sales of Norwegian goods through a reduced border trade, which has had a strong increase in recent years. A lower price level is important. This shows the clear relationship we have had between the increase in meat consumption and the decrease in the price of meat products combined with real wages for consumers. The government is therefore now proposing that, at the time of the current agricultural negotiations, one adjusts the target prices so as to provide a basis for national market balance and reduced border trade. It is the Turnover Council, on the basis of the law on turnover and the corresponding provisions, that determines whether regulatory measures are to be implemented and the type of action to be taken in that case. The laws of the Member States relating to the placing on the market provide for the possible conversion of the Council Decision. However, what is important in this context is that those responsible for market regulation also assess the potential of the Norwegian market and not only think of exports when a surplus problem arises. In this context, I would like to refer to the signals given by my side in the case of Hedstrøm, where meat from heads of pigs and cattle was adopted as a constituent of animal feed. It was converted, and this should show clearly enough that the Minister of Agriculture emphasises the use of regulatory measures in favour of Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e832	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have great problems following his thinking. He still comes back to the fact that it is agriculture's own responsibility, and that should be it. Despite this, Norway's record in pigmeat production is 110 000 tonnes. So you have this gas-brake problem. First, billions of dollars are injected into this industry, and then you get an overproduction, all the economic theories suggest that. However, new incentives – early slaughter grants were mentioned – should be introduced to slow this down, i.e. a fully-regulated policy that, at my discretion, is completely irresponsible to those who have to pay the bill, first for what is pumped in, and then for this with a reduction in production. It's going to be an astronomical subsidy hatch. Will not the Council of State reach in connection with the agricultural negotiations etc. try to obtain holistic instruments to counter this gas-brake problem, which discourages those leaving certain industries in the agricultural sector and starting in other areas where there is also overproduction from receiving subsidies?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e844	The representative Hedstrøm is now making it appear that the system is such that it first grants the country through transfers in the agricultural contract, and it is also the country that pays the measures imposed by the Council of Turnover to limit the production in the case of overproduction. That's not the case. It is the industry itself that pays the grips that must be done to limit overproduction. So it is also the industry itself that does not get the effect of the agricultural agreement that they would otherwise have had if they had control in their own house. It is, of course, the turnover tax that has contributed significantly to the fact that the trend in income we can measure in agriculture over the last few years has been what it has been. But I agree with Hedstrøm that it is important to think about the Norwegian market related to overproduction. It's possible to make the Norwegian market bigger, but I think we're quite disagreeing on how we're going to move forward to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e852	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘After the acquisition of Stormøllen by the joint purchaser Trondheim, there is once again one power producer in North Norway. Parts of the agricultural environment are concerned and claim that this means a monopolistic situation for the power-feed market in North Norway, and that one does not receive product development, safety, price and the possibility of complaints that one would have received if there were two operators in the market. Does the Council share their concern?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e861	I am aware that there is now only one power-feed producer in North Norway, and that this makes it appropriate to look at the impact of the agricultural instruments in the cereals and feed sector on the competitive conditions of this market. Int. S. No 167 for 1999-2000, the Economic and Social Committee provided that further work was to be carried out on the establishment of a new organisation of the market in cereals with a view to its implementation from 1 July 2001. The design of the details of the new scheme will also include a review of the cargo refund schemes for cereals and forage and how these and other instruments affect competition between market players. I also point out that an initiative has been taken by the state in the offer of the year's agricultural negotiations that the design of the freight subsidy schemes for feed in North Norway is assessed separately during these negotiations. I therefore do not think it appropriate to go into specific matters that are up to those degrees in the ongoing negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e870	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I see it as an opening through the negotiations that are now under way, and also what happened in the context of the comments of the nutrition committee. I therefore believe that those of the industry's practitioners who come from these districts in the home country of Trom, who are the most competent and also have the best agricultural environment, can feel that their situation is being taken seriously. I am going to bring that message back again, and I am looking forward to finding a solution to this with which they are satisfied, and which also gives them an opportunity to operate in an optimal way as they really want, and thus also to obtain a production that is as reasonable as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e875	So we go to question No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e881	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e884	I have the following questions: ‘Regulatory exports of agricultural products recorded in 1999. Hundreds of trailerloads, 19 000 tonnes of pig and bovine meat, were dumped at world prices in competition with poor countries. On 22 January 2000, the current representative Jens Stoltenberg said: ‘The rich world cannot continue to destroy the agriculture of the developing world by dumping its overproduction.’ How will the Prime Minister follow up the statement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e893	The balancing of food markets is a key challenge in agricultural policy both in Norway and in many other countries. The general strategy for adapting the production of agricultural products to the domestic market and the guidelines for market regulation is drawn up in St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, on Norwegian agriculture and food production, which the Stortinget has recently treated. For 2000, Norwegian exports and export aid must not exceed the actual commitment for the year following the WTO agricultural agreement, as opposed to previous years between 1995 and 1999, where there has been some flexibility in export access between years. I would also like to add that in the years before 1999, the volume of regulatory exports was significantly lower than in 1999. I would also like to point out that Norway provides export opportunities for developing countries through our opening up to imports of agricultural products from the least developed countries, the so-called MUL countries. This has been done through duty-free imports of all agricultural products, with the exception of cereals, flour and feedingstuffs. For beef, duty-free MUL imports have a safety mechanism of 2700 tonnes. I would like to stress that, in accordance with the agricultural agreement, it is the responsibility of agriculture to cover the costs of overproduction of agricultural products. The industry itself must implement the necessary measures within the framework set by the authorities. In this connection, the industry has, among other things: the reduction of market prices carried out in order to promote domestic sales of meat and to dampen production. Other production-reducing measures, such as the previous depopulation of pigs and bovine animals and the depopulation of dams, have also been implemented. It is important to stress that all these measures in the production of meat are covered by producers, on the one hand through lower producer prices and, on the other hand, through an increased turnover tax paid by producers of beef and pigmeat. With the strong constraints of the WTO agreement on the use of regulatory export, the need to adapt production to the domestic market becomes greater than in the past. The instrument system must be designed in such a way as to avoid permanent over-production problems and the target prices must be set in such a way that they can be achieved in the market. The Government therefore proposes, in the current agricultural negotiations of the year, that the target prices of the agricultural agreement should be adjusted to provide a basis for national market balance and contribute to maintaining the conditions of competition of the food industry when the EU implements Agenda 2000. Lower prices will help Norwegian meat products to become more competitive in border trade. I believe in principle that the rich countries must not dump their surplus of agricultural products on the world market. I also believe that it is not coverage to say that Norway is conducting dumped exports. We're implementing a controlled regulatory export. However, the solution to the problems that a regulatory export can cause is not that Norway is isolated from our regulatory export, but in changes in the international trade regime. There are just these changes in the international regime to be negotiated in the WTO negotiations that are now underway. Norway wishes to take special action in the ongoing negotiations towards the poorest developing countries. This applies to technical and financial assistance and to the granting of special preferences to developing countries in the event of customs reductions. Having said that, it is nevertheless important that those responsible for market regulation also assess the possibility on the Norwegian market and not only think about exports when an overproduction problem arises. Not least for the general political understanding of our regulatory systems, it would be positive if a more deliberately sought to exploit the potential for provisioning measures that could benefit Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e912	I thank the Council of State for the answer. No one can say with his hand on the heart that if they are serious to himself, the measures taken either by means of means of marketing or otherwise have worked. Last year we got the proof, when it was "dumped" – I use that word because Stoltenberg, who is now Prime Minister, uses it, and then it must be correct to use it – maximum to clear out the stocks. It was not in the interests of Norwegian incentive schemes that maximum dumping was made. But now it's going to be international rules and the WTO to save Norway again, to do the right thing. So for this with the means of marketing and that it's the farmers themselves who have to take responsibility etc. We hear that over and over again. But why do the farmers do this? Why do they use their own paid-up sales tax assets? Well, that's to keep the price of Norwegian consumers up. And then my question becomes to the Minister of Agriculture: Isn't it consumers who ultimately pay, and not the farmers, because the prices are getting much higher and abnormally much higher, than they would otherwise be?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e919	Of course, if the Party had implemented the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, removed import protection and halved agricultural transfers in one year, the situation would have been that the price of consumers would have fallen significantly, because then world market prices would have been paid for agricultural food in Norway. But it would also have the consequence that large parts of District Norway would immediately have been lying with their broken back, and it would have the dramatic consequence that there would have been total collapse in some municipalities and counties in the country. That's what I and the representative Hedstrom have been discussing over and over again, we want to use agricultural policy to achieve different goals, where Hedstrom is not at all concerned with all the collective agricultural tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e927	This question, from Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e930	I have a question for the Prime Minister who is therefore answered by the Minister of Health: ‘The development of a new central hospital in Akershus is at risk of being exposed due to unexplained land conditions between the State and Akershu County Municipality. How will the Prime Minister coordinate the work of the Government between the Ministry of Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health so that the site can be clarified and that the progress and expansion of the new Central Hospital can continue as planned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e939	I am briefed on the planning work being carried out in Akershu County and the Health Region of East, on the development of a new central hospital in Akershus. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this work has not yet come so far that an application has been made to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for approval under the hospital law. The Ministry has previously informed Akershu County Council that the development plans need to be examined and assessed in a regional perspective and is prepared to address the various questions relating to authorisation as soon as a specific application is made. It is assumed, on the part of the Ministry, that the county which builds up the necessary approvals under the Planning and Building Act and other conditions relating to location and proper construction and operation. In this context, it is of course also important that the land conditions are satisfactorily clarified. In so far as this concerns the State, it will be subject to the responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Administration. I have been informed from Akershu County Council that the regulatory matter is now under preparation and will be sent to treatment in Lørenskog Municipality, which is the right regulatory authority in this case. I have also been informed that the land issues are for discussion between the county council and State Building. If necessary, the Ministry of Labour and Administration will also be involved in these discussions. It's not uncommon for the kind of clarifications we're talking about here to take time. However, it is essential that all such conditions be satisfactorily clarified before finalisation of a development project and associated propulsion plans. It is only after such a position that it may be appropriate to talk about deferrals. On this basis, I find no reason why the Prime Minister should now establish some specific coordination between the departments concerned as regards the preparatory work on the development of a new central hospital in Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e958	I think this was too defensive. So you know the plans and the problems, but instead of doing business, you let the bureaucracy grind. The Ministry of Health has long been familiar with Akerhus County Municipality's plans for a new hospital in Akershus, and the need is completely unmistakable. A postponement will create major problems, yes, it will be irresponsible both in relation to patients and employees. It can actually lead to a two-year postponement, and it should concern the Minister of Health, at least I think it is unacceptable. I understand that there are several departments inside the picture, and that is why I also asked the Prime Minister, who has therefore left the Minister of Health to answer. But I hope the Minister of Health will take back that it is necessary to clarify these matters as soon as possible, and that at least it will not be the State that will put this matter on hold even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e965	I can confirm to this extent that there is always cause for concern when it is announced that delays in plans for the expansion of the necessary hospital capacity are being reported, and I do not think that there is any disagreement about it. Yes, it is true that in this case the department is informed that there is planning for hospital expansion. But we are not familiar with the specific plans, and this is probably also because they have not yet come so far that there is a basis for an application for authorisation under the hospital law. Moreover, I can assure you that there is good coordination between the departments concerned in this case, and that there is no lack of coordination at least which should be the cause of any delay in the matter. I would also like to stress the importance of clarifying these conditions before further development is started.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e974	Then we go to the questions 15, 16 and 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e980	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative of Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e983	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘A Polish eye doctor must, according to the Salt Post, work without payment in the Nordic Central Hospital in order to obtain practice. The employment office has agreed to cover 75 pst. by her salary against the NSS covering the other 25 pst. This refuses the NSS. Different hospitals have different practices for this; some cover wages in practice, while others, like the NSS, do not. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make the same rules throughout the country so that the resource of foreign doctors can be used more effectively?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e992	Health professionals trained outside the EEA who wish to obtain Norwegian authorisation must undergo an authorisation process that is often experienced as being curtailed. I agree with this and consider changes that can simplify the process. In order for a person with medical education from outside the EEA to obtain Norwegian authorisation as a doctor today, it is first necessary to recognise foreign medical education as a professionally equivalent with Norwegian cand.med.-grad. This is the result of Section 2 of the Medical Act. Thereafter, as a general rule, he has to perform a 12-month tour service in a hospital, followed by a six-month tour service in the municipal health service. This is similar to the requirements for persons with training from Norway or other EEA countries. However, in order to recognise the foreign education as a professionally equivalent with Norwegian cand.med.-grad, the university authorities also require six months of medical work in a Norwegian hospital department. This is called prepractice. The university authorities require the content of the pre-practice and require the physician to hold a provisional medical licence when the pre-practice is carried out. I assume that this is the practice the representative of Korsberg is looking for in his question. In the past, university authorities also called for prepractice to be paid. However, foreign doctors had major problems getting a place in pay practice. The hospitals wanted the doctors, but they couldn't cover the payroll. Several physicians instead worked for free for practice, but the university authorities did not accept this as pre-practice because they had not been paid. The requirement for remuneration during the pre-practice period thus became a bottleneck in the approval system. In this context, the salary requirement was removed. Accordingly, the desire to obtain more doctors from outside the EEA through the authorisation system was respected. At the same time, however, this has resulted in more doctors from outside the EEA working in full or in part without pay. I understand that it is unfair that there is no pay during the prepractice period. However, hospitals have a tight economy and priorities are strict. A solution for the individual doctor may therefore be to conclude agreements with the local employment office and, where appropriate, the hospital in order to arrive at a system. However, depending on how favourable an agreement can be reached, there may be discrimination with regard to remuneration during the practical period. As mentioned, I will consider simplifications in the authorisation process. In this respect, I would like to take an initiative with the university authorities to review all aspects of current practices, including those relating to the above-mentioned pre-practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1007	It is a fact that there is a shortage of games in this country. In particular, this affects hospitals in the districts. There is also a major shortage of doctors in the community health service. Hospitals and community health services use large sums of money each year to hire doctors through temporary employment agencies. For Nordland Central Hospital, temporary doctors are hired for approx. Twenty-five million. kr per. years, while the hospital is running out of deficit. It therefore appears as a paradox that a hospital such as the NSS does not take the chance when they can secure medical treatment in the future under normal pay terms by paying NOK 3000 a month for six months. In my view, this will be a cheap way to bring down the expenses of temporary doctors, and thus contribute to ensuring a stable and long-term medical coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1014	So I'm going to take an initiative with the university authorities to look at the simplifications that can be implemented with regard to the recognition system itself for doctors who have their medical education from outside the EEA. I'm not going to go into the specificities of the Nordland Central Hospital, it's a matter for the hospital and the hospital's management. But I just want to remind you that, from the hospital's point of view, there may also be other issues that relate to the exact practical time, which have to do with the fact that it may take a long time or require significant guidance capacity for a period before the current candidates can enter the regular medical service at the hospital. There are circumstances that may also need to be taken into account by the hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1025	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «Oslo Municipality makes dramatic cuts in its offer to people with mental disorders. Knows the Government of Stoltenberg committed itself to the unanimous decisions the Stortinget has taken to escalate the efforts within psychiatry by 24 billion. from 1999 to 2006?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1034	The roadmap for mental health for 1999-2006 is based on the 1998 Stortingen Decision in the context of the examination of St. pp. No 63 for 1997-98. The action plan has been drawn up on the basis of the notification by St. No 25 for 1996-97, Transparency and the overall picture of failure at all stages of the supply to people with mental health disorders. The Government will follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy in order to achieve the objectives of the escalation plan. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will return to the implementation of the escalation plan in proposals for the 2001 government budget. For 2000, approximately half of the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has been allocated. NOK 1.75 billion for mental health work. The main items are grants to county and municipal services of 627 million, respectively. NOK 655 million. kr, and grants to investments in municipal health institutions with a total of 175 million. kr. The initiative focuses on municipal services and on decentralised specialist health services. Action for children and young people is a high priority. Payments of State grants for 2000 are subject to the condition that they are used in a way that provides real quality improvement and an increase in activity. Furthermore, adequate reporting is required for the use of funds in 1999 and an approved plan for the implementation of the escalation plan. The representative Rise shows in his question that Oslo is making cuts in its psychiatric services. I find it difficult to go into a discussion about the budget work of the Municipality of Oslo. However, my department will follow closely how the Municipality of Oslo, and for that matter other municipalities and county municipalities, use the earmarked grants for mental health work and how they achieve the objectives of the escalation plan. Like the other counties, the Municipality of Oslo has reported to the Ministry on the use of earmarked grants for the 1999 Psychiatric Specialist Health Service. In line with previous years, the Ministry will now verify that the funding is used in accordance with the assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1045	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is fine that the Council of State can refer to what is granted, but it is actually such that the Government must have a responsibility for its follow-up. Nearly every week, we now receive reports of major cuts and major challenges in helping people with mental disorders. There are very special problems in Oslo, which has half of its drug users and very many people with mental disorders. And when the Municipality of Oslo makes dramatic cuts in its offer and there are major capacity problems in the hospitals within the psychiatry, the Government must also see its responsibility for this. According to a statement in the April 11 issue of the Newspaper, nothing was sacred from the government when the government was going to find a cure for increased spending needs. And since you've actually cut the psychiatry offer in the revised national budget, I expect it to be in line with this statement. Will the Council of State ensure that the psychiatry plan is being followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1056	With the risk of repeating my first answer, I just want to say that it is the government's clear intention to follow up the decision of the Storting so that the objectives of the escalation plan are achieved. I also have to repeat that it is difficult for me to go into the specific budgetary procedure now being carried out by the Municipality of Oslo, but I can rest assured that we will normally follow up on the use of the earmarked grants for psychiatry in accordance with the assumptions they have been granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1066	This question, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1069	I shall then ask this question to the Minister of Health: ‘According to the Norwegian Health and Social Associations, retired nurses are engaged as extra assistance paid under the Main Tariff Agreement in agreement with the Ministry of Social and Health. [[NHS]] The NHS has applied for regulated remuneration for retired auxiliary workers accordingly. The claim has been rejected on the grounds that the agreement with the Norwegian Nursing Association is contrary to the AAD Guidelines on Retirement Fee. [[NSF]] Very familiar is not known the special agreement invalid. Will the State Council reconsider the NHS requirements or conclude the agreement with the NSF?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1078	The special contractual arrangements applicable to retired nurses in the country, whereby the nurses are remunerated under the Main Tariff Agreement, have existed for the contractual periods known to the Ministry. I assume that the purpose of determining when it was agreed has been to stimulate retired nurses to take extra work to counteract the lack of nurses. The Ministry’s underlying activities, in particular the two major state hospitals, stress that the scheme remains of great importance, inter alia: to have additional guards covered. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has noted that the provisions on the remuneration of retired nurses in the special agreement for nurses do not comply with the guidelines on the remuneration of pensioners developed by the Ministry of Labour and Administration in the future. In accordance with the Ministry of Labour and Administration's guidelines, contributions to the pension scheme are currently NOK 85 per year. hour. This hourly rate allows the retired worker to retain the state pension without any reduction. On the other hand, the engaged nurses who work at ‘normal’ wage rates will be subject to the provisions of the Pensions Act on the reduction of old-age pensions. Therefore, there may be questions as to which of the arrangements are most favourable under the different assumptions. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the recruitment of auxiliary nurses within the department's tariff area gives a somewhat different picture than in the case of the recruitment of nurses. The major state hospitals report to the Department that there are currently no major problems with access to caregivers. In addition, in the Rikshospitalet, one has had a certain pervasiveness of assistant nurses as a result of reorganization and transition to the new Rikshospitalet. The way in which work is organised, including: as regards the use of nurses and caregivers, I have not taken a specific position. However, this will be an important issue in the future. With regard to the specific issue of the reassessment of NHS claims or the termination of the agreement with NSF, I do not consider it appropriate for the current market situation to terminate the special agreement for nurses now, but I do not want to take the initiative to change the staff salary of assistants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1091	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I am not satisfied with. It has to be equal to the law also in this relationship. I find it pointless and totally unfair and unacceptable that one health care professional group in our hospital should be paid differently from other groups once you have retired. And that there is good access to help nurses should rather be cross-cutting to contribute to more justice. In a letter of 11 May 1999 from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to the Norwegian Health and Social Union on this matter, it is clear that the Ministry will conclude this agreement, which has still not been done. As far as I know, the agreement with the Nurses' Association still exists, and I personally have no objection to that, but there must be fair treatment and not discrimination. I would like to ask the Minister for Health once again: will this agreement be terminated, or will the caregivers receive the same benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1102	First of all, I want to say that, as I see it, equality is for the law in the case that this is talking about. However, there are different conditions under which agreements have been concluded for different categories of personnel. There are so many examples of both health and other areas. When there is such an inequality, it has to do with differences in the labour market and different supply/demand ratios for different categories of personnel. My answer is therefore that as long as there is a market situation for nurses that suggests that they have such contractual terms, I will not, in itself, take the initiative to change the agreement, that is the answer that I will not do so now, but that is something I will then assess from what market situation develops for this type of labour force.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1112	Question 3 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1118	This question, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Defence who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1121	Let me first address the Presidency's 'directing the person' about the Minister of Defence. Quite rightly, I refer to the Foreign Minister's meeting in Moscow, but I have asked myself to get the Minister of Defence to answer the question, and I think it is a relevant minister who answers. I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘Russia’s Foreign Minister announces discussions with Norway on the Globus II radar in Vardø. On questions from SV, the previous government has claimed that the radar is under Norwegian control and not contrary to the ABM agreement. At the same time, we know that the United States has spent a billion dollars. kroner on the radar in Vardø and plans for a national rocket defense of more than 100 billion. krones. [[NMD]] Could it be appropriate to dismantle the radar and send it back to the United States, possibly clarifying why the radar must be at the border with Russia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1132	I ask to go a little beyond normal speaking time, in the light of the interest in the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1137	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1140	Thank you for that, President! During the foreign minister’s visit to Moscow last week, consultations were proposed by Russia at expert level on Globe II. The Minister for Foreign Affairs did not comment on this proposal during the talks and it is not right that separate discussions be held between Norway and Russia on Globe II. On the Norwegian side, we have repeatedly explained the tasks and functioning of the radar to the Russian authorities, most recently during the foreign minister's visit last week. The size has also been given this information, so here I will limit myself to reminding myself of the following: The radar, when fully operational next year, will have three tasks: space monitoring, monitoring of Norwegian interest areas, and research and development. These tasks were published in a press release in March 1998 — the year before the radar was moved to Vardø — and it is therefore incorrect, as some have claimed, that the Ministry of Defence did not ‘recognize’ until February of this year that it would have a intelligence task, the radar is a cooperation project between the United States and Norway, but will be staffed by Norwegian personnel and operated under full Norwegian control. The radar will not cause any real-time transmission of data between Norway and the United States. Globe II is technically unsuitable for use in any US missile defence. The tasks and functions of the radar are regulated in a bilateral agreement between Norway and the United States which shows that there has been no plan at any time to connect the radar to a missile defence. Changes to this will require a new political decision in Norway. The location of the radar in Norway is entirely legitimate and does not involve any breach or circumvention of any international agreements, nor the ABM agreement. This gave my predecessor a clear reason for why in his answer to a question on the same topic by the representative of Langeland on 1 March this year. There is therefore no reason, as the representative of Langeland suggests, to dismantle the radar and send it back to the United States. Langeland also asks why the radar is located in Vardø. It is related to: that the defence already has a station on site that at this station it is built up very good radar competence that Vardø geographically lies very favourable for all three tasks the radar has to solve. As far as space monitoring is concerned, it seems to be a notion that satellites are just orbiting around the equator. This is not the case, and a lot of satellites go in northern paths at different angles to the equator. It's true that so-called geostationary satellites have orbits high above the equator. However, Globe II is able to monitor also such space objects as a result of the conversion before being moved to Vardø. It is, I would think, not difficult to understand that Vardø is also a good starting point for monitoring the Norwegian area of interest, i.e. in an intelligence context. Finally, I want to make it clear that from the Norwegian side we do not intend to cut off a discussion about Globus II with the Russians. We have had an ongoing dialogue with the Russians on this radar, which we are of course prepared to continue in the framework of the regular foreign and security policy discussions at the level of office between our two countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1179	With regard to the cautious criticism of the representative for Langeland addressed to the Presidency at the outset, the President will only draw attention to the fact that the Government itself decides which Council of State is to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1182	Just a comment on what the president said about the answer. My point was that the ‘right person’ was the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I thank you for your answer. To this extent, there is relatively little national interest in this matter, but international interest on a monthly basis is linked to the NMD problem – i.e. National Missile Defence – in e.g.. Germany and France. And then one of them links this thing to the Vardø radar. It should upset the Minister of Defense when one actually sees that there is a connection here, from many different sources. So my question number. 1 is: Can none of the information obtained be used in such a defence system? And no. 2: If it has no function, was it not natural to accept a joint inspection between Norwegian and Russian government powers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1189	To the extent that you read Bergen's Official Journal abroad and hear the representative Langeland ask questions in Stortinget, there are many who believe that there is something in this. And so there'll be a lookup. But you're the source of it. I can't do anything else here and now but answer what's right. And so I've responded to this to the best of my ability. The fact that others continue to wonder and ask, I can't do anything about it – I can't stop it. I'm not particularly concerned either, because it's right, as the representative Langeland says, that the national interest is not as great as it might be that you can get the impression by following in some media. Russia never allows any inspection of its intelligence monitoring stations. Why would we do that? It falls on its own unreasonableness if we were to introduce such a new practice. We're not hiding that the radar has intelligence problems. That's one of the three I mentioned in the introduction. But we're not going to open it up to foreign powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1202	This question from the representative of Mr Lise Husøy to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1205	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘After 22 years of power, the Iranian regime is known for many violations of human rights. Norway wants to normalise the relationship and increase trade. The Labour Act was recently tightened up for smaller enterprises. This means a clear deterioration for workers who have neither the right to strike nor the freedom of organisation. The aim is to make it easier for foreign investors in Iran. How does Norway protest against human rights violations in Iran?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1214	The overwhelming electorate of reform-friendly politicians during this year's parliamentary elections confirms the Iranian people's desire for political reform. The contact now taking place between Norway and Iran is based on our desire to support this positive development in the Iranian community. In particular, the power struggle between different political flows in the Iranian community is expressed by different approaches to human rights issues. The human rights situation in Iran is of major concern. This concerns, in particular, the management of freedom of expression, criminal justice, equality issues, the use of capital punishment, the imprisonment of students after the riots last summer and the situation of the Bahaians. In recent times, those elements of leadership that are opposed to the reform policy of President Khatami have become offensive. The publication of independent newspapers, with few exceptions, has been stopped. Several journalists have been imprisoned or called into question in the revolutionary courts. In this situation, the Norwegian Government considers it positive that President Khatami has renewed its support for reform and a free press and that the Minister of Culture has called the closure of independent newspapers unconstitutional. With regard to workers' rights, we expect Iran to comply with the standards laid down in international conventions. Iran needs a great deal of foreign investment in order to modernise its economy. We must be able to expect companies investing in Iran, including Norwegians, to respect international standards for workers' rights. With regard to the recently adopted amendments to the Labour Act, these were adopted by the currently conservatively dominated Parliament against the votes of many reformists. The decision has created protests in Iran. After having gained experience, reform teams have expressed their support for the changes when the new reform-dominated Parliament meets in a few days' time. We are closely following developments in Iran and have expressed our concern at the unsatisfactory human rights situation in our meetings with the Iranian authorities. During Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Sarmadi's visit in April, topics such as human rights, democracy and freedom of expression were addressed during the discussions. It was emphasised that a free press is an essential part of a democratic society, and that the will of the people, as expressed in the elections, is expected to be respected. The government has also addressed the human rights situation in Iran in the international forums. During the April session of the Human Rights Commission, Norway voted in favour of the resolution on the human rights situation in Iran. At the same time as this resolution refers to the positive developments that have taken place in Iran in spite of setbacks, recent emphasis is placed on the need to respect freedom of expression, freedom of belief and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1229	I thank the Council of State for the answer, I think it was very good there. I hope that's right what's been done in experience, that in particular one law will be changed. But that's an evil lot of what's happening in Iran, regardless of it. The background to the question is the lack of consistent policy towards the terrorist regime in Iran from the previous government, which, in my opinion, did not have a clear enough profile of fronting human rights vis-à-vis Iran. Iranians in Norway fear that the increased political and economic contact legitimizes the barbaric regime. Trade is flourishing, while there are systematic violations of human rights. The question falls on the responsibility of the public to pay particular attention, as also mentioned in St. gemeld. No 21 for 1999-2000. I am calling for ethical guidelines for business, including for the state, on the basis of human rights, and for the Norwegian protests to be presented in public. Then I'm a little afraid that maybe it'll be given a little too rosy-red image of the regime in Iran, but we'll have to take that another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1238	Ethical guidelines for industrial activities are fundamental in all countries, including Iran. It is clear that it is important for any holding and any operator intending to engage in a country to assess whether it is possible to conduct business in an ethically sound manner under the prevailing conditions in that country. The question for us – for the Norwegian authorities, for Norwegian business and also for non-governmental organisations – when we engage in a country like Iran, must be how we can best be involved in influencing the human rights situation in the country in a positive way, in order to promote greater respect for human rights. With regard to the role of business, it is clear that a positive impact requires an active attitude of the enterprises themselves. And keeping order in your own house is the first step. It is also important to ask the question: What are the attitudes of business representatives in contact with the relevant authorities? This is a question that the Government is constantly discussing with representatives of Norwegian business as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1250	This question, from the representative Ivar Østberg to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1253	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Pomor bakery in Murmansk must close. It was decided at the Board meeting of Pomor Invest AS on 16 May 2000. The bakery is currently located in the Food Park of SIVA in Murmansk. The main problem is rent, which is payable in Norwegian kroner, while the income of the bakery is in rubles. Since August 1998, the ruble has fallen approx. 80 pst. Daily 15 000 breads are produced. After 6 years of operation’ — in Nikel and Murmansk — ‘60 people become unemployed. What will the Minister do to save the only successful industrial project in Barents' cooperation?"
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1262	Pomor Invest is one of several Norwegian business companies that have encountered financial problems after investing in Russia. In the past, the Ministry has provided substantial support to the company in the form of grants for the training of its employees. Other Norwegian public institutions have also provided financial support to the company. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recently informed the company that the Ministry is prepared to make a conversion contribution. This presupposes the establishment of a new form of operation which does not involve new grants in the form of operating aid. Thus, a conversion aid to the company that can ensure continued activity at the bakery will have to be a prerequisite for achieving long-term economic viability. The objective must be that the enterprise can discharge its future financial obligations. Restructuring of the holding is therefore necessary. At this stage, as mentioned above, we are committed to making a positive contribution in understanding with the company's board of directors, SIVA and SND.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1271	I thank you for a positive response and the positive attitude to provide conversion support. I am aware that the owners are willing to enter with new share capital in order to convert. However, a prerequisite for this is to find solutions to the rental problem, which has now been the main problem. The fact that the rent has been agreed in Norwegian kroner, and that the ruble has dropped by 80 pst., is the main problem. Will the Council of State ensure that the rent agreement is also renegotiated?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1278	In 1998 and 1999, the U.D. has provided a total financial contribution of 1.5 million. kr to the company and total support from Norwegian public institutions amounts to approximately 7 million. kr. There are few other industrial projects in Russia that have received such extensive financial support. Østberg assumes that SIVA’s rent is the main problem for the company in the current situation. I would like to be informed here for the sake of order that it does not lead to the correctness that it is SIVA's rent that is the main problem in the acute economic problems the company now has, given that rent has not been paid in this year and only a small part of the rent was paid in last year. The basic problem is that the cost structure of the bakery, including administrative expenditure in Norway, is not adapted to the income side.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1288	This question, from the representative Einar Steensnæs to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1291	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: ‘The war between Ethiopia and Eritrea has claimed tens of thousands of lives while the civilian population is suffering from drought and famine. To stop the acts of war, the United Nations has adopted weapons boycotts by the two countries. What other measures does the Government consider relevant to force the parties to the negotiating table?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1300	War acts in the last few days are a tragedy for the hundreds of thousands of civilians affected by a humanitarian disaster. It is totally unacceptable that a border problem is solved by military means. The situation is now a threat to peace and stability in the region. Both parties must immediately suspend the acts of war and resume negotiations under the auspices of the UN and the OAU with a view to reaching a peace agreement. The UN Security Council reviewed the situation overnight until today. In an opinion, the Security Council expresses its support for the OAU peace initiative and encourages the parties to enter into an immediate ceasefire. The Ethiopian authorities have a special responsibility to stop the ongoing offensive in order to prevent further suffering for the civilian population. From the Norwegian side, we will continue to make use of the close contacts Norway has with both parties, and make it clear that the war must be concluded quickly, so that positive developments can be resumed in both countries. As you know, the Organisation for African Unity, OAU, has had a mandate to bring Ethiopia and Eritrea together to negotiate a solution. Norway has actively supported the work of the OAU in general and the work of the OAU in this conflict in particular. We will maintain close contact with the OAU from Norway, with the UN and with related countries, with a view to assessing any joint initiatives with the parties. We will pay particular attention to strengthening the UN's capacity for conflict prevention and conflict resolution. We've contributed $1 million in the past. US dollar to a separate UN fund for demarcating the border between the two countries, and is ready to assist in other ways to contribute to a lasting peace settlement. Norway has considered it important that a solution be developed as far as possible within African structures and not imposed from the outside in a way that will, however, not be accepted in the long run. Therefore, Norway has recently provided financial support to improve the efficiency of the OAU and to the organisation’s conflict resolution mechanism. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs held a meeting yesterday with representatives of humanitarian aid organisations and other resources to discuss the current situation. To date, the Norwegian authorities have contributed 72 million. humanitarian aid, and we are also prepared to contribute additional funds to remedy the humanitarian crisis we are now facing. We are also in contact with the UN relief organisations on the need for help. With regard to our long-term aid cooperation with Ethiopia, we are now considering this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1317	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There has been a rapid escalation in what is called the world's greatest war, with armies of 500,000 and 300,000, respectively, and my question might have been different if I could have taken up the current situation, where Ethiopian forces are now well inside Eritrea. I assume that the political challenge now will be to put a considerable pressure on the Ethiopian side to stop, if possible, the acts of war. I'm sorry, I'm afraid this will be a long-term war, and that this task won't be easy. That's why I want to focus a little on the relief work, which the Council of State was about. It is worrying that not only Eritreans are chased away – 650 000 – but also the help workers, so that help is impossible. At the same time, there are also signs that millions of tons of emergency aid goes to the military in Ethiopia and not to the eight million hungry. My question to the Council of State is: how can a person ensure that the aid agents reach those who need it? And can the Council of State confirm that it is relevant to freeze aids, as she suggested in her first answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1326	Of course, as far as the question of assistance reaches those who need it, there is an urgent question in all aid contexts, and not least in a situation like the one we are facing, where we know that the danger of not happening then is imminent. It is therefore very important for us in the ongoing dialogue we have with all the actors involved, to ensure that the help comes in cooperation with those who are involved in implementing the assistance. As regards overall aid cooperation, as a result of the conflict and the war between Ethiopia and Eritrea, aid cooperation with both countries has been reduced. The country framework for Norwegian bilateral assistance to Ethiopia and Eritrea in 2000 was already in St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 decreased by 10 million. kr in relation to the previous year. In the current situation, it is not possible to continue a regular aid operation without taking into account the resources involved in war and preparations for war in the countries. In the revised national budget, we have proposed reductions in the country programmes of 25 million. kr for each of the countries, and no new state-to-state agreements will be concluded until a peace settlement is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1343	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1349	So far I am pleased to see that the Minister of Defence is present, so that I can ask him the following questions: ‘The Chief of Defence decided in February 2000 that the new comprehensive management school for the three arms in its entirety should be examined moved to Akershu’s fastening. The Chief of Defence therefore only investigates a location option. Does the State Council think this will be sufficient when the Storting is going to deal with the matter, and why, for example, is Fredriksten fastening in Halden not an alternative?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1358	I refer to the Questionnaire on Wednesday 29 March, where the representative Odd Holten asked me similar questions about the future of the Administrative School in Halden. One of the objectives of the migration process in the Defence is to coordinate training across defence sectors, where appropriate. Where possible, civil higher education and university environments should form the basis for building skills rather than building up their own environments of competence in defence. The training schemes of defence industries shall be based as far as possible on the same reading and on the guidelines set out in the Report of St. No 22 for 1992-93 and St. Prp. No 38 for 1995-96. Today, management training is conducted in the Defence of the Army's administrative school in Halden, the Air Force schools of Stavern and the KNM "Tordenskjold" in Bergen. Education is partly parallel and overlapping. As part of efforts to find solutions to the comprehensive organisational and economic challenges of the Defence Agency, the Ministry, in cooperation with the Defence Manager, has promoted a number of concrete actions for investigation. One of these is the coordination of administrative training. Coordination of administrative training does not involve the centralisation of existing schemes. The aim is to find effective solutions to meet the general needs of the defence, including the creation of a new career and vocational training platform across defence sectors. In this context, it shall include, inter alia: consider greater use of distance learning, use of civil training places, regional courses, modular training arrangements, etc. The new education model will be a basic premise for the recommendation on the location of school activities. The issue of localisation is therefore completely open and it is currently too early to address alternatives. I can add that two years ago, the Sannes Committee delivered its position on future management training in the Defence. Both Halden, Stavern, Bergen and Oslo were then considered possible locations. The investigation the head of defense has now started has the Sannes Committee's position as a platform. Adaptation of power production in the peace structure to the demands of the war structure will have consequences for many of the garrisons around the country. No military camp is guaranteed to have the same content as it is now. In the case of future management training in the Defence, the Defence Manager shall explore all relevant alternatives and make his recommendation to the Ministry. The Ministry will then review and evaluate the recommendation to ensure that the decision-making basis is as good as possible. Both the Fredriksten fortification in Halden and all other military fortifications must be evaluated in an overall perspective at the end. Any Minister of Defence has a responsibility to place considerable emphasis on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1379	It seems to me that the answer given by the Council of State is not in line with the goal that I have of raising the question. Concrete measures have been promoted for investigation, it is claimed, but it is concerned that there should be so-called coordination of administrative training, including the Army's administrative school. But in this context, it is right not just to consider but to explore more options before a choice is made. There is a difference between concrete policies and a bureaucratic definition of what progress should be. In view of the existing management school for the Army in Halden, I too, as a big-time politician, have to make sure that the Stortinget can be sure that several alternatives are explored in order to make the right decisions. In my opinion, the Council of State should follow up its opinions in the NRK Dagsnyt the other day, where he stated that the objectives and tasks of the Defence must be better synchronised. It is also the case that the move and conversion are not free, and it must be believed that the Council of State agrees that the investigation of different alternatives will produce exactly what I am pointing out here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1386	I agree that it is about creating alternative ways to solve these problems, and that is the basis for me referring to the Sannes Committee's position on future management training. There, a Halden, Stavern, Bergen and Oslo discuss and evaluate as possible locations, and it is this investigation that is now taking place, among other things. is responsible for the position of the head of defence towards me when it comes. I don't have any information to suggest that he doesn't do what I'm saying, that's based on this selection setting, how well to label has a very wide array of both pro and versus, both for and against the different options presented here. Some particular other way to do it I can't see that's the basis for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1394	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘On Haslemoen, Jørstadmoen and Porsanger technical workshop, different pay and working conditions are practised by the fact that some are based on government regulations and others on contract wages. This leads to different pay and otherwise different working conditions. Does the Council of State consider this to be an acceptable situation, and what may the Council of State do to facilitate the situation, so that the conditions of employment can be as similar as possible within the defence workshops within the same categories?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1403	I see the problems of the division of labour we now have through two systems to regulate wages. It's not a new issue. It's known in the Defense for a long time. In addition, we are in a negotiating situation related to the state settlement that matters, and where these issues arise again. We have a main tariff agreement, on the one hand, which regulates the salaries of most people in the defence. At the same time, we have agreements with pay after the workshop agreement for the Defence. It is also correct, as the representative Bredvold indicates, that a pay gap has developed over time between these two tariff areas and that the contract wage in the Defence is higher than the corresponding Regulation-paid mechanics. However, it is not true if the first part of the questioner considers that there are different main tariff agreements in the named technical workshops. All employees of the workshops mentioned in the question are paid according to the Main Agreement on Tariffs in the State, as is the predominant part of the civil and military personnel of the Defence. What's well worth noting here is that contract remuneration by private sector pattern has a long tradition in defense. The workshop agreement for the defense has roots back to 1922. While other groups in the Defence and the State in general have been transferred to the Main Agreement on Tariffs in the State, the employees of the Defence Department who are primarily employed in workshop operations have remained in collective pay. We have about 1,800 in that account. We set up, on a government basis, in 1988 — or before — a pay committee that would go further into the State’s pay system. Through that investigation and its follow-up, the State wanted to bring together all groups of workers under the same legislation, i.e. The main tariff agreements of the State. In the light of the workshops mentioned in the question, the issue of the compensation of pay differentials has been raised and a group of parties has addressed this issue before the tariff settlement in 1998. Unfortunately, one failed to reach agreed recommendations. Neither the Main Agreement on Tariffs nor the General Powers of the Ministry as a party to the Workshop Agreement on Defence allows for negotiations to be conducted locally with a view to transferring groups of workers between the different tariff areas. This is regulated by the contract work and the relationship between the parties in such a historical perspective. On the other hand, attempts have been made to raise those who were the worst, and in connection with settlement that is behind us, we have taken some steps in that area. But there's still a good deal to be done. The defence is now in the middle of two main tariff settlements. As is well known, the main settlement of tariffs between the State and the main associations and Norwegian Teachers' Teams for a new core tariff agreement is ongoing from 1 May 2000. A few days ago, the negotiations for a new workshop agreement broke down, and we are in front of mediation to establish a revised workshop agreement from 1 April this year. The problem that the representative of Bredvold rightly travels has also been raised in these negotiations. In addition to what I have now said, the situation does not suggest that I can address these issues further than what I have done. The settlement parties are now dealing with the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1418	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was also a review of what has happened. This is a situation that has been going on for many years. According to what has been told to me, there is a difference of 25 000 – 30 000 kroner per year on annual salary depending on the system by which they respectively are paid. With such a big difference, it's no wonder that those who are within that system and get the least, of course, react. I see that it must be a goal for the state – and the defence – to bring together all the workers under the same legislation, because it must be that equal work must give equal pay and that the state must lead by example. I interpret it as a matter of fact that the Council of State takes a positive view of this and will follow up on the matter. I would like confirmation that the Council of State is following up the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1425	That's what I said, we're interested in following this up. But there are thus limitations to the fact that we have two types of contract work. We can't suddenly say no to one and yes to the other. We have to have a solution to both of these problems. Pending this, we got e.g. a gain for the weakest group in the settlement process in 1996. Then we'll see what it's possible to do through the settlement we're now in. In any case, it is clear that it is in principle desirable to have an overall solution for civil and military personnel in the Defence, somewhat in accordance with what I laid down in my answer. But I can assure you that this is on the agenda of the department and will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1430	Question 11 will be answered later in today's meeting. So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1438	This question, from the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1441	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘The levy on currency transactions will contribute to more stable economies in the world. The creation of financial structures that can reduce the risk of large currency fluctuations will among other things be a very good aid policy. Canada is in charge of such a charge prior to the Geneva Social Summit in June. Will the Prime Minister take a Norwegian initiative to support a currency transaction fee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1450	Canada, in advance of the Geneva Social Summit in June of this year, has proposed to study the consequences of a charge on currency transactions, including the potential benefits and disadvantages of such a charge. Work on establishing systems to prevent international financial crises is of particular importance. This is particularly true for developing countries. A financial and monetary crisis could put economic developments in a country back several years in time. It's speeding up, among other things. countries in Latin America in the 1980s and in Asia in the 1990s. Studies show that it is uncertain whether monetary markets will become more stable if a global currency charge is introduced. In this case, such a charge would have to be imposed in all countries of some importance, including in non-OECD countries. The value of actors by circumventing the levy will be significant and there will be strong motivation to move currency trading to countries that are not subject to the levy. Experience has shown that the introduction of a global currency charge can be difficult to obtain. If a proposal to introduce a currency charge is to be realistic, the heavy players, such as the United States and the EU, must also support the proposal. I would like to stress that the Government considers it irrelevant for Norway to impose a levy on currency transactions on a one-sided basis. There are several issues that need to be resolved before a charge on foreign exchange transactions can be imposed. However, I believe that an investigation should be carried out into the issue of global taxation of currency transactions. I agree that a charge on international currency transactions should be further investigated. Properly designed, such a charge can help to promote stability in the currency markets while being an important source of funding for development measures, etc. However, in order for such a proposal to be realised, it is essential that the scheme has wide international support. If not, currency trading will only move to tax-free areas, with destabilising effects on price stability and interest rate levels – that is, the true opposite effect of what we want to achieve. Canada submitted as mentioned a proposal to study the possibility of introducing a currency charge at a previously held preparatory meeting in front of the five-year review of the UN Social Summit. On the Norwegian side, we were prepared to support this proposal, which was, however, rejected by heavy players such as the EU, the United States and Japan. In my view, it would be constructive to focus also on other measures to stabilise currency markets. Several initiatives have been taken to reform the international financial institutions and improve the functioning of financial markets. Norway itself is well advanced in the implementation of international supervisory and regulatory standards in the financial sector. The Government also attaches great importance to actively working in the international forums for joint actions that can limit and prevent financial crises internationally. Many of the monetary crises that have occurred, among others: However, in developing countries, there has also been a link between economic policies that have not been sustainable. To a large extent, it will be up to countries themselves to pursue sound economic policies that provide confidence in financial markets. Norway can contribute by providing advice on economic policy through our participation in the IMF and the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1471	I thank you for your answer. The Central Party shares the Minister of Finance's positive view of the Canadian proposal. However, I know a concern over the remarks made by the Minister of Finance when it comes to active action. If I understand him correctly, Norway will not support Canada because the EU, the United States and Japan have rejected the proposal. What about a strategy in which a player in Norway's reputation as a peacemaker and as a promoter of reconciliation in the UN, the OECD, the World Bank and the Monetary Fund provides Canada's support for the elimination of taxes on capital movements – a proposal that is clearly in line with the themes of the Geneva meeting, social integration, the fight against poverty, and which will also be clearly in line with the commitment Norway should have for reconciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1478	Let me first point out that I said that I agree that an investigation of the issue should be carried out, and that Norwegian was prepared to support the Canadian proposal, which was therefore rejected by heavy players such as the EU, the United States and Japan. It is then that even though Norway has both a strong commitment and a credibility in this type of issue, we are probably dependent on the heavy players also being behind in order for this kind of thing to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1493	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1500	I will ask the following questions to our honourable Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In some municipalities, persons who are refused a building application risk having to pay very much for a refusal. Refusal of a building application may cost several thousand kroner. Does the Council of State consider that it is appropriate to pay up to the same fee for a refusal as for a permit, and will the Council of State do something to clean this up, so that some do not hesitate to seek permission to build a fear of excessive costs in the event of a refusal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1509	The municipality may cover its expenditure on the handling of construction matters by way of a fee, provided that a municipal regulation to that effect has been adopted. The regulation shall not be approved by the State. This is the result of § 109 of the Planning and Building Act. However, the fees cannot exceed what is charged to the municipality, i.e. what we call self-cost. Within that framework, it is up to the municipalities to cover all expenditure by the applicant or to cover parts free of charge. Of course, the processing of a building application also involves expenditure in cases where the municipality finds that the action applied for cannot be authorised. In many cases, the processing of a rejected application may be as demanding as when an authorisation is granted. This can also be covered by a fee. I understand that an applicant may feel that it is unreasonable to pay a fee when no building permit is granted. It can also be considered, as the representative Andersen is concerned, that in such cases the fee requirement creates a reluctance to apply for a building permit. On the other hand, municipalities depend on an economic foundation for good practice, and payment by users can be an important tool here. Furthermore, I don't think it's completely unreasonable that whoever gets the service pays for it, even if the result is not exactly what he or she wants. The applicant himself has a responsibility to examine whether the application is within the scope of the Planning and Building Act. The requirement that the State should approve the regulations of the municipalities was removed by Stortinget in 1992. The background was that the municipalities were to be set freer in their internal governance. In the case of State bodies, it is neither possible nor desirable to review the decisions of the Municipal Council, as long as the fee regulation is self-costed. I therefore see no reason to change this system. Another thing is that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is working on simplifications in the Planning and Building Act that are important in themselves. Less stringent requirements in construction matters could also result in less labour-intensive treatment in municipalities and, therefore, hopefully cheaper for applicants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1522	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which, of course, I was not quite satisfied with. The amount of processing fees in construction matters has exploded in the last two years as a result of the new planning and building law. The processing of a building application, for which a builder has previously paid a few hundred kroner, may now cost almost NOK 10 000 in some municipalities, so it also costs almost NOK 10 000 to get a discount. It's a hair-driving price, even for a granted application, and it becomes completely unacceptable to have to pay the same amount for a discount, that is, for a service that you really don't get. It is true that most people have a sense of justice that makes it very loud in the ears of many people when the municipality can charge a large amount for a refusal of a building application that the applicant might have had the impression in advance through a pre-conference was a curative and straightforward matter. This is part of the public greed culture against which, at my discretion, the inhabitants must be protected. In my view, the council should have changed the regulations or changed the circulars to signal that we cannot accept this, these major differences must be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1529	As I said in my main response, I understand, as Andersen's representative points out, that if the fees are too high, in some cases it may lead to a reluctance to apply. That, of course, is a problem. But I guess I don't quite agree with the approach the representative here has, because this is really about whether we should have a local autonomy in this area as well, or whether we should not have it. And there it is that I believe that this should be handled by the municipalities as long as they adhere to the rules that are, that they cannot charge more than the cost of handling the case – i.e. self-cost. Then I believe that each municipality has to deal with the matter, and I do not think it is right that I, as a representative of the Government, should go in and override it. Then I am aware of the point the representative addresses in relation to the Planning and Building Act, that it often takes a little longer, and that it may be more expensive to process. That's why the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is working on simplifying it, and I think that in itself can be an important contribution to making it cheaper and better.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1539	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «Plants of the Government of the Forced Management of Municipalities?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1546	The answer is no. The government does not plan to coercion of municipalities per year. today. However, we want to facilitate voluntary community mergers – and it has been very slow. In connection with the examination of the municipal economic proposal of the year, a majority of the municipal committee in Stortinget, consisting of members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, and also the Centre Party, asked the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal that meant that municipalities should not have reduced state transfers as a result of their joining together. This has been followed up by the Government in the proposal for the local economy next year, by proposing that if two municipalities will merge, they will not lose money on it. The background to that proposal is the gradual reduction of the basic grant over the first five years after the merger of two merged municipalities under the current scheme. I think there has been a problem in relation to the fact that some municipalities have not joined together even if they really wanted to. That is why we are now proposing, as the representative is probably familiar with, a separate breakdown grant that will last for ten years. I believe that the new breakdown grant will be well received among the municipalities, and I believe that this can stimulate more voluntary community mergers if a local person believes it serves the residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1557	I thank you for your answer. I feel that the municipal minister speaks with two tongues. She says she doesn't want to coerce municipalities, she says in a different context that she will strengthen local democracy. At the same time, a lot of what it does is done, and what the government does is another direction. The arrangement of transfers to municipalities, cut-offs in regional and regional policies in RNB, likein's cut-off for SND, the offer presented in the agricultural decision-making, and the municipal minister's strong commitment to large regions instead of today's county councils, give one signal: people have to live in larger units. My question is: is it in relation to the 210 municipalities that currently have less than 4,400 inhabitants, that the municipal minister is not satisfied with the borders, or does it also apply to the other and larger municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1566	No matter how many times the representative Meltveit Kleppa or, for that matter, the representative Odd Roger Enoksen or others from the Central Party claims that the government is adding up to coercive mergers of municipalities, it is not going to be more correct for that reason. When the Government of the Municipal Economic Proposition proposes to amend the grant so that the municipalities that choose to join voluntarily do not lose weight to it, there is also something the Central Party has asked for through the vote of the Municipal Committee last year. In addition, I believe that a person should take on serious signals from municipalities that want to merge, but do not because they lose money to do so. It's been trying to do something about what we've put on the table in our community economics proposition. We do not talk to two tongues when we say that we have not planned to coerce municipalities. With regard to the entire municipal economy, we're going to have plenty of opportunity to discuss it further here in the Chamber in a few weeks. But it's not like that because the government is adding up to a change in the income system, that means we're adding up to a coercion of municipalities. That means that we get a fairer distribution in the income system, and I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1575	Questions 15 and 16 have been answered earlier. Question 17 will be answered later in today's meeting. Question 18 has been answered earlier. We then go back to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1587	This question, from Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1590	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘In the near future, flight data recorders will be introduced for individual ships [[VDR – Voyage Data Recorder]] What is the intention of the Council of State to do in order to protect privacy also on ships with voyage data recorders?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1599	In letters of consultation dated 9 March 2000, the Maritime Directorate proposed that high-speed craft certified for more than 450 persons should be equipped with a flight data recorder, known as the Voyage Data Recorder. The requirement has been proposed in Regulation of 5 January 1998 No. 6 on the construction, equipment and operation of high-speed craft used as passenger ships or cargo ships. It is proposed in the letter of consultation that the navigation data recorder shall comply with the requirements of UN Maritime Organisation IMO Resolution A.861 on standards for such recorders. [[20]] The purpose of introducing a new requirement for the navigation data recorder is only to facilitate the investigation of the causes of marine casualties. It is therefore the view of the Maritime Directorate that access to the information stored in such navigation data recorders should be restricted. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs considers that the information should be available only for the investigation by the maritime inspectors and for the examination of the designated commission of inquiry. In order to ensure that the information is used only in those cases, it is necessary to restrict access to information in law. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs will therefore propose limiting access to information by introducing a new provision in the Regulation of 5 January 1998 No. 6 on the construction, equipment and operation of high-speed craft used as passenger ships or cargo ships. Such a provision shall provide that the information shall be available only for the investigation by the maritime inspectors and for the examination of the specifically appointed committee of inquiry. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs will clarify the data protection issue of the Data Protection Authority in the context of the amendment of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1608	I thank the Council of State for a very positive response. It is reassuring to find out here in Stortinget that it is possible to react quickly when a matter is raised. I just hope that the regulatory changes will be adopted before the regulation to introduce the "voyage recorder" comes into place, because it is vital that privacy is protected. It shall not be possible for anyone to pick up calls at the ship’s bridge – there may be much to discuss, from stretcher to skipper and shipowner, and there must be few between the three persons on guard. It is very important that this be followed up, and that regulatory changes be adopted before the imposition of avoyage recorder. But this is what I assume the Council of State will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1615	I fully agree with the representative Bastesen that everyone is entitled to a working environment without monitoring, and that recording on such ‘recorders’ is only useful in the cases I mentioned in my main response. I believe that this is now properly organised and that this point of the regulation is included when the regulation is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1623	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hedmark and Akershus, where the Kongswingerbahn means a lot to commuters, the NSB will set down another eight stops. These are divided by three in Hedmark and five in Akershus. Does the Council of State consider this to be appropriate where the objective should be to get as many travellers as possible to make use of the collective offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1632	It is an expressed objective of this government to maximise its collective travel. The issue raised by the representative Bredvold here is thus important and will always be part of the assessments made in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the train. Today, trains operating between Skøen and Kongsvinger have 17 stops between Lillestrøm and Kongswinger, a distance of 79 km. This gives 4.4 km on average between each stop. The settlement on the route is largely concentrated around eight to nine of the 17 stations. Therefore, the NSB considers to take out the eight minimum holding positions, which together constitute approximately. 6 pst. of all descents and accesses throughout the route. Any closure of the minimum stops will contribute to a reduction of travel time by up to eight minutes between Kongsvinger and Oslo, and the NSB expects that both the number of passengers and the revenue base of the Kongswingerbahn will increase overall if the proposal is implemented. The NSB will continue its work on the proposal in close dialogue with the municipalities and counties concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1641	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that the NSB looks at, among other things: The king's wing path to make it as efficient and profitable as possible. But I don't initially agree to reduce the number of stops, and I don't think it will lead to an increase in the need for this path and an increase in profitability. Rather, the goal must be that as many as possible use the collective offer, and in my opinion it is wrong to go to the end of holding sites. We should rather look at service, price, safety, punctuality, parking for commuters in the vicinity of the stops etc. So the question for the NSB has to be, how do we make the NSB better for the travelers we already have, and not least, how do we get more travelers? So I think that Glamdal commuter association's statements and advice should weigh very heavily on the NSB, because after all, these are an important customer group.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1648	It is in the nature of the matter that everyone, as far as possible, wants to have a train stop near his place of residence or place of work, and at the same time it is such that once one has arrived on the train, one wants to get there as soon as possible. And then we have to figure out the right balance. I agree that these are many instruments that need to be considered. But it is also the case that the optimum system for both speed and stopping must be constantly assessed, and I am confident that the NSB will make a thorough assessment before making decisions. In this way, of course, users are important — including hearing the views of user organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1656	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘State NSB BA and NSB Gods have invested heavily in innovation and increased efficiency in recent years. Most transport industries have statistics on efficiency measured against comparable countries. How is production per unit? employed in millions. tonnes/personkm in Norway compared to other countries, and in particular the United States, Japan and Sweden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1665	Train kilometres per train employed is a comparison figure for railway undertakings which should be considered easy to calculate. Since rail companies in Europe, the United States and Japan have different structures, it has proved difficult to implement these types of statistical comparisons. Railway undertakings in the United States and Japan are, for example: integrated, i.e. the companies are owners of their own infrastructure. In Europe, there are more divided regimes, where countries such as Sweden and Norway have shared between operator and infrastructure managers, while for example: France and Germany have integrated companies. An important reason why the EU now provides, as a minimum, for an accounting distinction to be made between the infrastructure manager and the railway operation itself is inter alia. in order to measure the effectiveness of relevant comparisons between different railway companies. The Ministry is not aware of the existence of reports with international comparisons involving the NSB, which show the company’s productivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1672	I thank you for the reply from the Minister for Transport. It was as I thought, there are no measurements of effectiveness in Norway. You mention a whole bunch of reasons why this isn't done. I have my own thoughts on why this is not done. I recently took part in a debate at the Polytechnic Association. There, one of the bystanders presented a measurement that had been carried out in a number of countries, where Norway ranked at a very low level at the sad stage of India. When you look at these columns, this is an example of horror. But I'm glad – I was going to assume it was kind of the answer – that the EU is about to do something. Will the Council of State try to do something in Norway to make these figures comparable to those in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1683	As I said in my main answer, the situation we are in is not just the situation for Norway. That is why I have no reason to comment on what the representative referred to. At the same time, I would like to stress that in this context – as in many other contexts – ‘bench-marking’ is important. We want to see what we can do in this area. In the case of international comparisons, a primary task will have to be assigned to the international transport organisations in which Norway participates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1695	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The objective of the Gardermoban was originally a market share of 53 pst for trains. by air passengers. These days, Stortinget Government's proposal to surrender debt to NSB Gardermobanen AS is 6-7 billion. krones. At the same time it is advertised for cheap parking on Gardermoen. Prices for parking have fallen significantly since the opening of the airport in autumn 1998. What will the Council of State do to avoid the share of private cars running, increasing and reducing the share of collective travellers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1704	In 1999, about 58 p.m. by collective train or bus to Oslo Airport Gardermoen, of which approx. 34 pst. took the flight. This is a collective share that is among the highest registered at any international airport. In the main plan for Oslo Airport, a total of 12 000 parking spaces were added. Of these, 10,000 places have been built, of which 7,500 for travellers and 2,500 for employees. About 45 pst. by the parking spaces of the passengers are in parking spaces. In addition, 5000 private spaces are located outside the aerodrome itself. The price of parking in the parking garages was raised from 130 kroner to 150 kroner from 1 January 2000, which corresponds to a price increase of about 15 pst. In order to adapt to the price competition of the private parking companies outside the airport, Oslo Airport AS has decided to reduce the price of weekly parking at the parking spaces from NOK 230 to NOK 190 from 1 January 2000. This corresponds to a price reduction of about 17 pst. During the summer season, from 1 June 2000, Oslo Airport AS, Gardermoen will return to normal prices. The price adjustments made for the park offer at Gardermoen have been limited. There is little reason to believe that in the short term this will have a decisive impact on the profitability of the flight. In a competitive market there must be room for variations in prices and offers. High collective shareholdings must be ensured, first and foremost, by continuing to offer a good offer of competitive prices to the majority of travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1717	I would like to thank the State Council for its answer. I am happy to hear that one has intended to go back to the old prices in a while. But at the same time, it is a major challenge for the Council of State to look at what one can do to coordinate the supply of passengers in such a way that one exploits the means of public transport as best as possible. There will be a paradox for us when one day spends $6.7 billion to pay off debts and the other day – or maybe the day before – has arranged for the same train not to be used to such an extent because it is out of competition for prices in relation to the use of a private car. It is a problem that I hope the Minister for Transport will take inwards. I would like to ask the Minister for Transport: Is it possible to enter into a dialogue with the OSL and possibly have an agreement with them where you can look at them. the use of the car park, and that one also ensures that the provision made at the car park, and the desired use of public transport, does not conflict, as price reduction has led to the recent past?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1726	Of course, I fully agree that we have invested a lot of resources in building a good collective offer for the Gardermo, and that is why it needs to be exploited. It's also true that we have a high collective share for other reasons, for example. environmental. This government will therefore have a clear long-term goal of keeping, and raising, the collective travel share of the Gardermoen. But in the long-term perspective, I think it's right to have room for variation over shorter periods of time. I think it's healthy for competition, just to get the best possible offer on the collective side and also a useful offer for those who choose a car, even if the collective offer is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1734	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The problem of doctors using a private car in the event of an emergency call was eventually re-updated by the fact that a municipal doctor was deprived of his certificate when he followed an ambulance on the call. On previous questions on this matter in regular Question Time on 16 February 2000, former Minister of Transport Dag Jostein Fjærvoll replied that there was a work going on in the department to clarify this issue. Can the Council of State confirm that such work is in progress and when can any clarification be made?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1743	With regard to the specific case referred to here, I ask for an understanding that I cannot comment on any decisions that are subject to and taken by other authorities, such as the police and the courts. However, I can confirm that it is working to assess to what extent and under what conditions it may be permitted to allow doctors in municipal medical care to equip their private cars with blue light. Further consideration is given to the competence requirements to be set for the driver of a call-out vehicle and how such build-up of competence can be implemented in practice. These are some of several aspects related to a proposal for a revised regulation on the approval and registration of a call-out vehicle and a new regulation on certificates of competence for call-out drivers. The Road Directorate has had both regulatory proposals consulted. Following the consultation round, it has been necessary for the Directorate-General for Roads to examine the economic and administrative implications of the proposals, including: because several central hearing bodies have called for a more thorough impact assessment than the one presented in the consultation round. The Directorate of Roads is now finishing this work, and the matter is likely to be forwarded to the Department by the end of May. The Ministry of Transport then intends to deal quickly with both regulatory proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1752	I fully understand that the Council of State cannot address the particular issue. It was not the problem I raised, it was when one could expect to get a clarification on this matter. Asmund Kristoffersen, among others, said: in the relevant Questionnaire on 16 February: ‘I therefore believe that such a criminal reaction here, which may not be unusual in other similar cases, is contrary to the general opinion of the people.’ That's exactly what's going on. In a case like this, a doctor will also have the obligation to come to a patient as soon as possible in order to prevent the patient from becoming further injured. My follow-up question to the Council of State is: What kind of treatment will it be offered in this matter? Will it be sent to Stortinget early in the autumn, so that you can get a quick clearance?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1764	It is precisely from an understanding point of view of the needs that this work is underway. It is something early for me now to say something about the further treatment as we will get input from the Road Directorate at the end of May, as I mentioned in my main response. But at least the government will ensure that this work, regardless of how the final decision is to be taken, can be done as quickly as possible. I feel that is in line with the intentions of the questioner and that have also been achieved in the consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1779	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1785	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1788	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The conflict between port authorities and business and housing developers is raging around the country. For example, in Tromsø, a major shopping centre in the port area is planned for the disposal of the ports, and in Harstad, it is planned for the users of the ports to be severely penalised. The Ministry of Fisheries provides annual large sums of grants for port expansions intended for shipping. Does the Council of State consider this development to be acceptable and what will it do to continue to safeguard the interests of port users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1797	The representative’s questions concern both traffic ports and fishing ports. In the case of fishing ports built with funds from the Ministry of Fisheries's budget, Section 8 of the Law on Ports and Waters requires the permission of the Coastal Directorate for measures affecting those facilities. The Coastal Directorate shall ensure, through its treatment, that the objectives of the State's development are met. If the measure is likely to conflict with the fishing interests in the port, no authorisation is normally granted. Subsidies from the Ministry of Fisheries's budget for the development of fishing ports are sought to ensure the purpose of the grant, both through intentional encroachments on the properties in question and through active use of municipal land planning. In the case of public ports, they are owned by the municipalities. Therefore, the development and operation of ports is initially a municipal responsibility. A key condition for the proper handling of goods is that ports have access to large enough land. This must primarily be ensured through the municipal planning processes based on the Law on Planning and Building. The local authority receives an opinion from the local authority on port issues and may give professional comments on the plans. The Coastal Directorate may, as a trade union, also raise objections if the area element of the municipal plan is contrary to port and maritime transport considerations. This has been done in some cases, and solutions have been found that also take into account port and maritime transport. For the treatment of St.meld. No 46 for 1996-97, Ports and infrastructure for maritime transport, Stortinget joined the Government's proposal to designate national and regional ports. These are ports which are considered to have national or regional significance as connecting points between land and maritime transport. Tromsø has been designated as a national port and Harstad has been designated as a regional port. I consider it particularly important that national and regional ports have good framework conditions, so that transport needs for industry and business throughout the country are adequately met. With regard to the land situation in the port itself, good dialogue between the State and the municipalities is important. In addition to the municipal planning process with the participation of the Coastal Agency, a dialogue has also been established, inter alia, through: contact meetings between the Ministry of Fisheries and representatives of the Norwegian Harbour Federation. Through active involvement in municipal planning processes and a good dialogue, I believe that the problems that may arise can be solved. However, where municipal planning does not lead to adequate land cover and satisfactory integration of national ports in relation to the other transport network, the main message I mentioned earlier announced that the Government would be able to assess the use of State planning and regulatory authorities linked to these ports. This also includes the ports' own land.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1812	I thank the Council of State for a full answer. However, it is a fact, as I say in my question, that more and more of the port areas are taken over by – I would say so strongly – outside interests. It is now such that a shopping mall or any other commercial building can be built anywhere, if so in the woods – but it is impossible, in my opinion, to move a boat up in the woods! The ports which are built with large state subsidies for the operation of boat traffic should not, in the name of propriety, be taken over by other commercial interests! Municipal authorities have the right to have access to the ports of traffic, but in the samples there are often people who don't have the slightest idea of the maritime industry. That's when the state has to use its right and go in and override.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1819	I do not believe that there is a great deal of disagreement between the Bastesen representative and neither the Minister for Fisheries nor myself that it is important to safeguard the interests of the ports in the further development of the port areas. This is, of course, a specific assessment every time. This is a municipal planning process, but where port authorities have the power to influence both by objecting and, ultimately, by using state regulatory and planning authorities. There will therefore be a concrete assessment relating to the development of the individual port and to the municipal plan, which might conflict with port interests in such a way that it is necessary to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1829	This question, from the representative Brother Yngve Rahm to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1832	I would like to ask the Minister for Justice, on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, to answer the following questions: ‘The introduction of the heavy industry in Grenland has for a long time been criticised for its lack of safety. Ship traffic is high and operates in a narrow area surrounded by population density and population density. Taking into account some dangerous and explosive loads, it is of paramount importance that safety be adequately ensured, not least in relation to the radar coverage that both the port authorities and the locomotive authorities consider to be deficient. What will the Council of State do to improve the safety of the entrance to Grenlandsleia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1841	The entrance to the Grenland port is monitored by the traffic centre in Brevik. The traffic control centre was put into operation in 1977, and the radar system was put into operation in 1986. The traffic centre is now upgrading, replacing the Fuglöa radar, covering the entrance and replacing the equipment inside the traffic centre. There is no extension of the coverage of radars in the work currently being done. The Coastal Directorate has assessed the issue of extending the coverage of radars. The Directorate considers that an extension of the coverage of radar is unlikely to have any significant effect, since the waters are such that ship traffic can naturally be separated into a large part of the member. Since the operating costs of the central traffic centre are paid in full through fees from maritime traffic in the waters, the establishment of full radar coverage for the traffic centre in Brevik will also have direct consequences for the cost level of shipping. The Coastal Directorate has estimated that the establishment of full radar coverage will increase the annual operating and maintenance costs by 25 pst. I believe that care should be taken to impose high cost increases on shipping to the extent that the safety impact is not clearly demonstrated. The risk it is common to accept in the development of traffic centres in Norway is that calculated by Veritas for the border region. This calculation is given in NOU 1991: 15. As I have been informed, there has not been any developments in the border area in recent years that indicate that the situation has changed significantly. I would also like to add that when assessing the safety level in the waters, consideration must also be given to the other risk mitigation measures in place in addition to the traffic centre. The notation in the waters has been upgraded in recent years. There are also stricter rules on compulsory unemployment in the border area than elsewhere in the country. The use of pilots plays a major role in the safety of the waters, and pilots have improved their competence through the experience gained from the implementation of the legislation. Specific provisions have also been made for the use of ropeboats for escorting ships on entry and exit, and the ropeboats available today are specifically built and suitable for escorting operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1858	I must admit that this was not a satisfactory answer. Over several years and with changing governments, this has been a safety issue, among other things. for the population of this area. There is talk of the transport of dangerous goods, of explosives, which by accident will lead to a massive disaster in the area. Former Minister of Fisheries Peter Angelsen said last autumn that he would take the initiative to review safety in the border area, precisely based on the fact that there has been a development both in terms of the number of ships and in relation to other circumstances that indicate that this is necessary. My question to the Council of State must then be: will the new government take an initiative to follow up the initiative of former Minister for Fisheries Angelsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1869	As I see it, a safety assessment has been carried out in the border area, and it has been considered satisfactory. However, I will follow up with the Minister for Fisheries, the representative who concluded on the assessment promised by the former Minister for Fisheries in the autumn, in order to verify that that assessment has been followed up. Then the result of the assessment is brought back to Stortinget on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1877	This question, from Ivar Østberg to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1880	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The fishermen and the business community of the Kvänangen are fully dependent on the completion of their molo-building project as soon as possible. The requirement is 50 years old. The coast had construction activity in Reinfjord between 1985 and 1988. Inspections took place in 1991 and 1997. Cleaning and securing work started in Reinfjorden in the autumn of 1998. Molo in Reinfjord is being scrapped in 1999. Detail planning and regulation of the area of molo in Badderen, costing 9 million. crowns, on the move. The wife's promised molo. The application has been submitted. When can work begin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1889	The coastal plant has previously tried to build a molo in Reinfjord, Kvänangen. In 1987–88, 16 million were used. kr to basic workers and other preparations for molo laying, as requested by the municipality. The filling itself was then started, but after a short time there was a so-called quarry. The Coastal Authority obtained a new geotechnical assessment of the area where the molo was to be located. Furthermore, the extension of the area was abandoned as the basic conditions were considered highly risky. The coastal plant then decided to complete the molo work in Reinfjord. In 1997, there was a new contact between the Ministry of Fisheries and the municipality of Kvänangen, and new studies were started. After the investigations were carried out, the Ministry of Fisheries proposed that the municipality consider building a liquid wave absorber, either in Reinfjord or in Badderen. It would be the municipality that would be the builder and owner of such a floating wave damper, but the state at the Ministry of Fisheries would be able to give up to 75 pst. grants. The municipality, however, chose to accept the offer of filling smolo from the contractor company Robertsen and Slotnes A/S, and the work on filling smolo in Reinfjord started in 1999. Early in May 1999, this new moloconstruction broke out, and the municipality of Kvänande then informed that it had gone away from building the filling molo in Reinfjord. The municipality of Kvänan has a clear need for development in the fishing port sector. Subsidies have been committed for the current year under heading 60 of Chapter 1064 of the State budget for coastal fleet floating facilities on Speldra. The Coastal Directorate has now received an application for grants to finance municipal infrastructure for the fishing fleet in Badderen. Taking into account the needs of the municipality of Kvänangen, this application will have a high priority, but grants can only be answered once the budget for the coming year has been examined in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1900	As I said in my question, it is urgent to clarify this. Young fishermen have invested in new material. When it's a storm, and it's often, it's important that they don't delay boats from one side of the fjord to the other. The 5th District of the Coastal Agency has said that the plan of location that now exists makes sense. In the past, in 1997, the Coastal Directorate has stated that exceptional measures are not unreasonable, and this is precisely the case in the Badder. Both the directorate and the fisheries minister have pointed out that of the 20 million. kr that was set aside for Reinfjord, it is only spent 5 million – there are other things that are posted. My question is: From the long time it has taken to provide a molo in Kvänangen, can the Council of State imagine that extraordinary funds are being used now?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1909	I have already responded to it by saying that the application from the municipality of Kvänange has a high priority, and that the Ministry of Fisheries sees that the municipality of Kvänangen needs this, but that answers on possible grants for financing these works cannot be given until the next year's budget has been examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1918	This question, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1921	I have the following questions for the Minister of Fisheries, to which the Minister of Justice will answer: ‘A number of concessionaires for salmon and trout farming want to be able to expand their concessions so that they can be better able to ensure good framework conditions for their commercial activities, while increasing the demand for salmon and trout. Will the Council of State take the initiative to authorise the extension of already existing salmon and trout farming facilities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1930	The marine industry is a future-oriented industry in growth. Only last year, exports of salmon and trout increased by almost 24 pst., which meant that we exported over 12 billion kroner. One of the prerequisites for this industry to grow further is that we ensure access to the markets for Norwegian fish. As most people know, Norway has concluded an agreement with the EU on market access for salmon, the so-called salmon agreement. The agreement limits how much fish we can sell to the EU, our clear most important market, while agreeing a minimum price per. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg. The leasing agreement has helped to ensure a stable situation in the industry relative to the market, which must be said to be one of the conditions for the growth we have seen in the industry. It is important to maintain this stable situation, and the Ministry of Fisheries will therefore facilitate a balanced growth that can further develop the aquaculture industry, even after the expiry of the salmon agreement in 2002. The production of salmon farming is regulated by the Breeding Act in several ways. The Ministry of Fisheries has established annual feed quotas in recent years. Through the feed quotas, which have increased annually since the introduction of the scheme in 1996, and a restrictive allocation practice, the fisheries authorities have contributed to the growth in line with the salmon agreement and the ability of the industry to exploit alternative markets. The Ministry of Fisheries has begun to look at how the further growth will and can be organised. In this context, there will be an important question as to whether new concessions should be opened up in addition to continuing the practice of production growth – and gradually increased volume – to existing concessionaires. However, the Minister for Fisheries has made it clear that we must have a clear intention if we are to grant new salmon concessions, and that in that case the main purpose will be to facilitate the extraction of the potential of the aquaculture industry as a whole. The Ministry of Fisheries is well-informed about how the further growth of salmon farming is to be taken out. The industry will be invited to talks and debate on this work to ensure that the results are optimal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1945	The Council of State spoke in its reply about the salmon agreement, and everything in the Council of State was about the EU and how much fish we sell there. In fact, we do not see the potential of the Norwegian aquaculture industry. For example, if you have: It's based on what's related to trout, and it's mainly sold to Japan. The sale and rearing of trout has nothing to do with the salmon agreement with the EU. There is a large potential in those markets outside the EU area, which can also be filled with Norwegian salmon if we can produce more. I have to say it surprises me that this is the only thing you're getting into. You talk about visions in the aquaculture industry, and then you see the constraints and not the possibilities. It is also time for the Government to start to see that there are markets outside the EU. [[President clubs]] I would like to ask a quick question: do not see the potential in particular. Japan in the case of trout? And then you can expand the concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1952	I said in my answer that you have started to look at how the further growth should and can be organized. The Government and the Ministry of Fisheries are also committed to facilitating further growth. The question is how to do the best, and how to do it in order to balance growth and reserves. And then, of course, what the representative mentions, is that there is the possibility of outlets other than the EU, a component of that assessment. But the best way to take the growth out and facilitate it is to work on, not least together with the industry, just to ensure that the results are optimal, so that we continue to ensure a future-oriented industry in Norway and do not take the wrong steps now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1959	We're going to go to question 38.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1965	I allow myself to ask the only question of justice policy to the Minister of Justice today: ‘The security and environmental conditions of Moss police officers are very unsatisfactory. Over a number of years, trustees at the police station have pointed out the bad conditions without reactions from the department. Will the Council of State act in such a way that police officers in Moss are not in danger of being shut down, because security is much like a police guard in a small, lovely town in southern Spain, according to the main protection officer of the department?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1974	I am aware that the security of the Moss police guard is not at the same level as in the police buildings that are being built today. However, the Ministry of Justice has not found it financially viable to start extensive rehabilitation, as new premises are planned. Unfortunately, progress has proved to be more time consuming than foreseen. At the moment, State Building is negotiating with the municipality of Moss about the purchase of a municipal plot in Moss center. The land shall subsequently be attached to a private lessor after competition, in order to obtain the most cost-effective premises. At present, the Ministry is awaiting the agreement of the municipalities of Stadsbyg and Moss on the conditions for the purchase of land. The reason for the delay in negotiations is disagreement on the financial liability for cleaning-up costs and pollution in the ground. How quickly the negotiations can be concluded, I do not want to speculate, but we have received signals that may indicate that the matter can hopefully be concluded relatively quickly. We will assess a reform of the police guard if the new building project is significantly delayed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1983	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Now the situation at the Moss police station is quite familiar. As was also the case with the Council of State, there has been a seven-year debate on a new building of justice in Moss. Isn't it time to give clear signals to the Moss police action about what they have to deal with? Doesn't the Council of State see the need to get a quick clearance here and get it fixed pretty soon, when you know that there's a lot of police security issues that just go on security for each police officer? I hope that is not the case, as the general opinion is, that all plans for a new judicial building are being trained pending the establishment of the boundaries of the new police districts, and that is what is the main cause of the postponement itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e1992	There is not really a lack of signals that has been the problem with the police officer in Moss or new law building in Moss, it is that it has been implemented. And it's a reality that if you're going to build a new judicial building, you have to have an empty one, and it's negotiating the state building and the municipality of Moss. I do not know that there will be any training of this by Stadsbygg as a result of possible conversions in the police districts. At least there is no indication from the Ministry of Justice that this case should be trained in some way – rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2002	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘A former head of staff of the Directorate for Nature Management claims that the Ministry of Environment ensured that applicants who were positive to predators were preferred when employed in DN [[National Republic of 2 May 2000]] How does the Council of State assess the procedure and realities of these recruitments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2011	Reference is made to the issue of employment matters in the Directorate for Nature Management, where the Ministry must have tried out a unanimous board. I therefore understand that this must be about matters which are at least 15 years past in time, because there has been no board of directors for the Directorate since the establishment of the Directorate of Nature Management in 1985. Before 1985, the Ministry of the Environment was the adjunct body for management positions, while the Board of Directors of the Directorate for Wild and Freshwater Fish added to other posts. The representative of Austria refers to employment cases that are far behind in time. I do not have any information to suggest that the views of the applicants on predators have been relevant to the recruitment of the directorate in cases where the department has added them. On the other hand, I have information that on some points there were different views and assessments in the directorate and department in connection with the processes of conversion and modernisation in the administration 15-20 years ago. This may have led to a different view of some employment cases. From the Ministry’s point of view, the focus was on broad competence and administrative transparency in ecology and natural resource management in relation to the tasks assigned to the Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2020	I thank you for your answer. I understand that this is difficult since it is a matter that is so far back in time, but when I took it up, it was because of the principle in the matter. However, I realize that it is difficult to get a clarification of this. The former head of staff also reacted to a call from the Ministry of the Environment for staff of the Directorate for Nature Management to join the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association. Should not the agency – and now I ask in general – be extremely careful with membership of stakeholder organisations associated with their work area, as this may weaken trust in the civil service?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2029	As regards the issue of general rules for employees in departments and directorates and their involvement in society, the same rules apply to employees in environmental management as to employees in all other administrations and it should not be necessary to further address them in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2037	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The Government’s press release on differentiated management of wolves underlines that, where the establishment of family groups of wolves is accepted, measures will be taken to reduce and prevent losses and conflicts. What kind of measures will be taken to prevent conflicts between wolves and the groups of outdoor users, hunters and livestock owners?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2046	The management of the large predators imposes great demands on the authorities regarding measures to reduce losses and conflicts. This applies in particular to the relationship with the buffing and domestic industry, to hunting and hunting interests and to the fear of the population. Different measures apply in relation to livestock owners. For example, shifting to alternative grazing and guessing has been an effective solution in the sheepy areas north of Hedmark, while fencing of individual herds is a more effective prevention measure in Eastfold. The design of the most effective measures around a new wolfevir will take place in close contact with stakeholders locally. An evaluation of prevention measures has recently been transmitted to the Stortinget in the context of the revised budget. The compensation scheme in the event of the loss of bofe also contributes strongly to the reduction of economic losses for livestock owners. For example, in relation to hunting and field interests, wolves tax approx. 3 pst. of the number of moose that are shared annually by hunters in Hedmark County. The problem is therefore essentially the heavy burden on some hunters within a wolf’s virus. Discussions started earlier this year with, for example: Norwegian forest with a view to contributing to solutions that all can live with. In relation to outdoor users, information and guidance will be the main means of preventing conflicts. In the future, individual counties will work with detailed management plans for the large predators and identify the most effective measures to reduce and prevent losses and conflicts, both directed at the buffalo and domestic industries, against hunting and hunting interests and to counter the fear of the population. This work is assumed to be done in close cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2059	I thank you for the answer, which I was quite curious about. Now that the zoning plan is in place, it is actually the case that the wolf has a certain area to go into, and it is important that the measures to prevent fear, which will increase the hunting appetite of people, which will apply to both keepers and all of us, are also in place. When I hear the Minister for the Environment's answer, I just have to say that I'm curious about what the solutions really are, because what she says in her answer is that you have to cooperate with Norskog to find better solutions that everyone can live with. Yes, then I have to ask: What are the solutions? And outdoor users will receive information and guidance. Does the Minister for the Environment think it's working for fear? Although the solutions exist in an interaction between the municipalities and the state, the main responsibility for finding the solutions lies with the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2068	The decision on zone demarcation for wolves is one of the active measures aimed at resolving the conflicts between different interests of predators and, in particular, of wolves. With regard to measures in relation to business interests, we have come a long way in trying out many different measures, and that work will continue. As far as hunting interests are concerned, there is a more recent problem, a problem that relates to very special areas. There we have also started a work that I have great expectations of, and I look forward to coming out with more concrete proposals on how to resolve some of these conflicts that relate to very special areas. In terms of public fear, I believe that information and guidance are among the measures that can help us meet the challenge of managing predators in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2080	We're now going to go to question 39. This question, from the representative Lars Rise to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2083	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘We see an alarming increase in crime among minors, especially in Oslo and other major cities. Will the Council of State take the initiative to force us to engage in conflict mediation for minors, and will it go in to increase the limits of parental liability?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2092	From time to time, proposals have been made for mediation to be compulsory — or forced — for children under the age of 15 who commit crimes. As part of reaching a more final clarification, the question was addressed in a letter of consultation in the autumn of 1999 on changes to the Conflict Council Act. The addressees included all the police districts, all the conflict councils and several courts. The letter of consultation pointed out that volunteering has so far been a fundamental principle of all dispute resolution. By instructing children under the age of 15 to meet for mediation in conflict resolution, the conflict management system will be turned towards being a court of law. This will include, inter alia: questions arise as to who shall ensure that children meet for mediation, who shall ensure compliance with the agreements concluded, and what shall happen if no agreement is reached. The letter of hearing also pointed out that the imposition of compulsory mediation for offenders under 15 years of age, irrespective of the position of the injured party, would result in forced mediation also for injured parties. The conclusion in the Ministry’s letter of consultation when it was sent out was that compulsory mediation for children under the age of 15 should not be introduced. All the hearing bodies which have given their opinion on the matter have joined the position of the ministry. Many argued that it is very important to maintain the fundamental principle of mediation on a voluntary basis. It was claimed by several teams that it would be wrong to distinguish between more and less than 15 years of volunteering in mediation. In addition, a large number of children and young people actually agreed to conflict management. In my opinion, the arguments against compulsory mediation for children under 15 will also apply to children between 15 and 18 years of age – i.e. all minors. The main argument is that mediation should be voluntary regardless of age. Experience from the conflict councils shows that actively saying yes or no to mediation has a positive effect in itself, not least for young people. Most people say yes to mediation, and for young offenders, this is an important element in taking responsibility for their own actions. In the light of the arguments I have now explained, and which have not least been brought forward in this hearing, including those which have been expressed in the consultation round, I am currently withholding from taking the initiative to impose mandatory or forced mediation for minors. But I intend to mention the issue in a motion for a resolution about some changes to the conflict resolution law. As far as the limits of parental liability are concerned, I would like to refer to Odelsting's treatment of this issue a year ago. A proposal to raise the amount limit for the objective liability of parents from NOK 5000 to NOK 20 000 was made in Document No. 8:18 for 1998-99. The Judicial Committee considered the issue and the majority rejected the proposal for an increase in the amount limit for the objective liability of parents. The opinion of the Committee was endorsed by the vote of Mr Odelsting. I therefore do not intend to reopen this debate with the very first.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2116	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that most of the hearing bodies have gone into this in depth. I also think it is positive that the Council of State showed an open attitude. But it's important to point out that there are geographic differences. In Oslo, the problems are particularly big. Generations are now growing up where parts of the coals have limited notions of the difference between right and wrong. I believe that children and young people need firm frameworks when home fails, or when parents stand powerless. Then society must intervene. Although few say no to mediation, these too must be taken into account, for one must be aware that a single individual can impose great economic benefits on society. But the most important thing is human suffering. I would ask the Council of State to take an initiative to put this matter on the agenda again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2125	I very much agree with everything Mr Rise says. If there's something you can get involved in, it's meeting/delivering the young people who commit criminal acts, in a way that helps you move them in the right direction. So, the representative's concrete questions about the conflict council prove to have some aspects that may not make it the right solution, but that we still need to look for solutions that can help mitigate childhood and juvenile delinquency, I fully agree. I also remind you that the Stortinget is currently dealing with an action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency. It is thus well suited to all good suggestions and input from the Stortinget at this point in time in the fight against child and youth crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2135	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In 1999, Tynset received compensation of 1.3 million. crowns for predator damage, and is one of the most predatory municipalities in Hedmark. The dung has applied for preventive predatory measures, but has been rejected because there is no money and because the guessing of sheep does not cause fewer predatory damage. Does not the Council of State consider it equally important to protect grazing animals from predators, wherever the grazing animals are located, and does it consider that grazing animals do not prevent predator attacks?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2144	Substantial amounts are used by the country to prevent predatory game damage. Nevertheless, it has not been possible to give priority to all aid applications because the amount of the application is greater than the amount of the grant. Based on guidelines provided by the central authorities, the county of Hedmark in its priority has focused on the use of prevention measures in areas with chronic and major damage and in the core areas of bears and yorks. Early lowering and fencing applications are a priority, whereas this year it has not been possible to give priority to supervisory projects with less loss-reduction effects. The north-west parts of the county include: The thinned municipality has important pastures for sheep, and here we find the greatest densities of sheep on pasture. For these municipalities, the average robberies will be around 1-4 pst in the period 1995-99. For comparison, some municipalities in the core area of the bear have an average predatory game of about 13 pst over the same period. These last municipalities are prioritised by the county in the allocation of funds for preventive measures against predatory game damage this year. However, the municipalities of the northwestern part of the county have suffered a growing loss in recent years, mainly because of yours. Therefore, this has been taken into account in the allocation of the quota for the hunting of yews. Similarly, the allocation of quota hunting on gauze focuses on reducing the overall pressure on damage. At the same time, there has been a low threshold for the initiation of the infested game trap in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2155	Let me say that this is about sums. The neighbouring municipalities of Alvdal and Stor-Elvdal have been promised 20,5 million. kr for predator prevention measures and, as is known, the predators do not know the municipal boundaries, nor do they stick to borders. What's interesting about the rejection that Tynset municipality has received is the argument: 1st@item: inlistbox There is no money.2. Guessing is not a good enough predator prevention measure. My first question to the minister to whom I would like an answer is: Can guessing no longer be used as predator prevention? And question No. two are: aren't grazing animals on the outskirts, or anywhere other than in core areas, something worth compared to the predator prevention measures we're going to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2169	I put emphasis on two things in my answer. One is the prioritisation of resources and the fact that we have more applications than we have overall opportunities to meet, and the other is the impact of the different measures. In this context, it has been assessed that the impact of other measures has been more valued against the total allocation. However, I do not reject any further measures of the kind addressed by the representative Fossum, but the main argument is linked to the overall priority within the allocation given this year. In terms of areas, it is not that some areas are excluded from the possibility of receiving support, but we also need to see support for different actions in the context of other actions, to which I referred, among others. potential traps for damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2179	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘About three weeks ago, the Ministry of the Environment stated in the media that it wanted to introduce a noise-differed charge on car tyres. Noise from car decks is not caused by a single factor, but is caused by many technical circumstances, such as asphalt quality, display design, tyre pattern, temperature, etc. Does the Council of State think that the imposition of a charge on car tyres actually reduces traffic noise?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2188	Noise is one of the environmental problems affecting most people in Norway. About 1.5 million people are exposed to the noise of their homes, of which over 500,000 are exposed to noise above 60 decibels. It is important to reduce noise, so that fewer people are plagued. The main source of the nuisance is road traffic, in particular engine noise and tyre noise. State pollution control in a report has assessed possible measures to reduce noise. The report provides an overview of national noise measures with estimates of their effects and costs. The transition to more low-noise tyres is, in SFT’s opinion, a measure with significant noise reduction effect at low costs. Information, labelling schemes and a noise-differentiated charge on car decks are identified in the report as a possible means of transition to more low-noise tyres. Other measures that will reduce road traffic noise include: use of new, low noise asphalt, reduced engine noise and reduced speed. I have not taken a decision on the individual proposals in the SFT report. This report, together with other material, will underpin further efforts to reduce noise in Norway. I also point out that the Storting will come back to questions related to noise in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 8 for 1999-2000, Government's environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the state and St.meld. No 33, additional notification to the said notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2199	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It said so far in the evening post today, so I have got it with me twice. I must honestly say that I thought it was a delayed April joke when I saw this headline in the media at the end of April. Clearly, there are no limits to the creativity of the workers' party government to squeeze more money out of Norwegian drivers. Noise tax on car tyres is a proposal that has only one purpose, namely to turn more money out of Norwegian drivers, to add more money to the state fund, while being camouflaged as an environmental measure. Thus, according to the headlines in this case, the Ministry of the Environment assesses a number of other measures against traffic noise. Norwegian drivers pay a lot of fees today, and the latest proposal on a tyre noise and rush time charge makes me wonder what other Norwegian drivers can expect in the future. I hope the Council of State can answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2208	Unlike the representative of Korsberg, I find it very difficult to exclude a set of instruments against such a huge social problem as noise, especially given that we know that car traffic causes noise problems to such an extent. Therefore, the Government will continue to work on action against noise in line with the majority of the Grand Duchy. And as I said, I look forward to dealing with the noise issues in Stortinget. Otherwise, I would like to repeat that there are no plans for new charges on the deck.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2218	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Environment: ‘What are the general views and policies of the new Government/Government regarding the laying of tribal roads through urban centres, residential and school areas, in view of the environmental consequences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2225	Increasing road traffic through our cities and agglomerations puts heavy burdens on the environment and the population in terms of noise and air pollution. Reducing these disadvantages is a major environmental policy challenge and an important task for government and local authorities. The planning of herd-weed breeds in urban areas takes place as for road planning in general, in accordance with the provisions of the Planning and Building Act. Whereas the development of the main road network must be adapted to the traffic base; In cities and agglomerations, road development needs to be seen in the context of improving collective provision and traffic regulation measures. For example: avoiding environmental and road safety conflicts may be subject to lower speed, road width, etc. on some of the road sections other than those that are otherwise common on the main road network. Nevertheless, there will be a need to build relief routes to manage transit traffic outside the centre and central residential areas, including to improve traffic congestion and accessibility. Therefore, it is not possible to provide a clear response to the solutions that should be chosen for urban pathways, but it is assumed that adopted environmental requirements are complied with regardless of solution. The government will also work actively to reduce environmental problems from urban road traffic. Current measures include road pricing, reduction of emissions from the car fleet, reduced use of heavy goods vehicles, improved public transport, the development of the road network, the organisation of bicycles and the reduction of the scope of transport through more coordinated land and transport planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2238	This, I think, was a rather constructive answer. So it's going to be possible to go through agglomerations and through urban zones. And instead of building a bypass, you'll have lower speed, narrower road width, according to some agreed environmental requirements, and then you can drive the road in. Hasn't the council seen the new thing that has come from the State Road Service that the construction of bypasses that lead the traffic away from agglomerations reduce traffic accidents by nearly 20 pst.? This shows a study carried out by the State Road Administration. The study includes 20 bypass roads in 13 counties. The bypasses have been developed over the past 10 years. These are the actual conditions – you put the whole way out of the center, you save accidents, and you save the environment for loads. It should be convenient for you to do this anywhere. Will not the Council of State take into account that there are not only environmental limitations but that there are also road safety gains in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2248	The Council of State is absolutely familiar with the information provided by the State Road Administration. Often, as I said in my answer, it will be natural to put these paths outside the agglomeration. In any case, it is important to comply with environmental rules. Traffic safety is, of course, also a very important perspective in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2256	I would like to ask another question to the Minister for the Environment: ‘In 1987, the Directorate for Nature Management prepared the Work Report of the Rovvilt project No. 30 on wolves' food search and man. According to the United Nations on 2 May 2000, this report was withdrawn following instructions from the Ministry of the Environment and the entire operation was destroyed. What was the background to the reaction of the department?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2265	In 1987 a report entitled "Ulver's Food and Human Resources" was published as part of a series of reports from the so-called Rovvilt project in the Directorate for Nature Management. The main content of the report was a translation of parts of a book about wolf, written by Mikhail Pavlov and published in Moscow in 1982. Pavlov wrote about wolves attacking people in the Kirov area of Russia, mainly in the 1940s. The Directorate stopped the further distribution of the report on 4 August 1987 following notification from the Ministry and the remainder of the report was discarded. The Ministry then thought that the record from Pavlov's book should not have been published as a working report from the Rovvilt project in the Directorate of Nature Management. Among other things, the Ministry pointed out that the Rovvilt project ended in 1985. The Ministry also considered that the content of the report was not relevant for Norwegian wild game management. I believe that this was an unfortunate procedure at the time to discard the remaining edition of the report that was published. Instead, the report should have been supplemented by an explanatory additional note. I would also like to stress that transparency about research and dissemination of research results is today considered one of the most important measures to avoid conflicts around the professional base of predator management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2274	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad she's taking a break from this procedure -- to remove and destroy information that might be of interest, it's hardly worth a democracy. I have understood that it is largely the same wolf tribe or breed in Russia and Norway, and that the experience and knowledge of wolves, for example in Sweden or Norway, is like drops in the sea compared to what one has on the Russian side. That is why I am a little surprised at what the Council of State says, that it is not relevant for us what was in this report. Isn't the experience from our neighbouring Russia of special interest to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2281	I have no reason to doubt the Ministry's assessment that the report was not relevant to Norwegian wild game management. Nevertheless, the report should have been published in some way. This was a book about wolves, written by Mikhail Pavlov, published in Moscow in 1982, and it was about wolves attacking people in the 1940s. As I said, the department's professional assessment is no reason to doubt, but it's the publication and the way it was handled, which can be criticised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2289	This question, from the representative John Dale to the Minister for the Environment, will be raised by the representative Ola D. Glötvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2292	The basis for this question has changed somewhat during yesterday, but I still choose to put it out of more principal terms. The question submitted is worded as follows: ‘There are given harmful traps for the radio mark Fenre. Working nature managers at the County of West Agder have reported in the press that current rules prevent the use of radio detection during the hunting of the wolf. This state is perceived as very unimaginable by most people. What is the rationale for the rules shown here?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2301	Radiolabelling is currently being used as a research tool to provide us with knowledge of the wolf in Scandinavia. Radiolabelling is not primarily intended to be an aid in the management of individuals. However, the current legislation does not prevent the use of sounding equipment for the killing of radio-labelled predators that damage buffs or tamrein. In principle, the Directorate for Nature Management has agreed that radio transmitters should not be used to trap wolves on ordinary civil liability permits under the wild law § 12. The background is that such use of bearing equipment will increase the pressure for the felling of wolves radiolabelled compared to those not marked, which the directorate considers unintended and unlucky. However, I would like to point out that in this case, it was authorised to use bearing equipment in connection with the killing permit on the radio-labelled wolf in South Africa. The wolf was too much of a field yesterday. The Ministry will discuss these issues more closely with the Directorate for Nature Management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2310	I am pleased with the decision taken in this matter, and will commend the Minister for the Environment for the fact that it is now possible to obtain a little more flexibility here, that reflectors can be used in such killing. Breeding permits for the harvesting of harmful predators shall not be a mere indication that they shall be hunted on this predator based on an attitude of the noble species of hunting activity, but there shall be a breeding permit to authorise the harvesting of a pest and shall be carried out in the most effective manner possible, as in this case. With regard to the use of radio-labelled animals, or the argument that these can then be more easily removed, we know that the opposite is also the case, that radio-labelled animals have an extra protection precisely because they are radio-labelled. However, using the measures that are possible must also be the most humane way in relation to the search and killing of such a pest. And as the Environment Minister said in an earlier case today, using these resources in connection with killing must also be the most effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2317	I also think this was a right decision. In the event of a decision to bring an action for damages, it is important to have the decision implemented as soon as possible. However, I would like to point out that several assumptions are necessary to achieve this, including: that we have good hunters, which also proved to be the case in the case in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2322	Then we go back to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2328	This question, from the representative of Ola T. Loan to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for the Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2331	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture. ‘There has been strong doubt as to whether the purchase process for fiction works well enough to ensure high quality and literary diversity. In particular, the ‘zeroing’ of pre-buyed books has helped to put small publishers in a difficult situation. These publish books with valuable distinctiveness, and often dare not bet for fear of breaking their necks economically. What will the Council of State do to improve conditions, especially for the smaller publishers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2340	The purchase scheme for new Norwegian adult fiction was established by Stortinget in 1965. The scheme is managed by the Norwegian Cultural Council in agreement with the Norwegian Association of Publishers, the Norwegian Association of Publishers and the Norwegian Association of Authors. Both this scheme and the equivalent for children’s and youth literature are defined in agreements. The purchasing arrangement may also be used by non-organised publishers, i.e.: publishers who are not members of the organisations standing as contracting parties. There is no distinction between small and large publishers. On the other hand, there is a distinction between member and non-member publishing regarding the time of delivery and settlement of the books. Member publishers participate in the automatic purchasing system and are paid their books within 30 days of delivery and before the quality assessment has taken place. The automatic purchasing system ensures, inter alia: the books reach the libraries while they are still in play. The procedure for the books themselves, through evaluation committees, advice and, where appropriate, appeals, together with the grounds for refusal, have been reviewed by the Civil Ombudsman in 1995 and assessed by him as satisfactory under the Administrative Act. If, after a quality assessment, a book is considered not to satisfy the required requirements, i.e. that it is ‘zero’, the publishers must pay back the purchase price of the book. On the other hand, unorganised publishers are pre-assessed – not script – before they may be required to deliver them in 1000 copies of adult books or 1,550 copies of children’s books, respectively. The reason for this discrimination is that the Council of Culture has not wanted to put these, which are often small, into a difficult debt situation. Small organised publishers may also avail themselves of this possibility. Different publishers experience advantages and disadvantages by being members or not. The agreements therefore allow publishers who wish to change the category in connection with delivery and payment to apply for this. This possibility is used at any time by several publishers, and such applications have never been rejected. The small publishers thus have today an opportunity to avoid getting into the situation described by the representative Lånke. They may well be members of one of the publishing associations and may not, however, participate in the automatic purchasing system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2351	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I had almost said, Was it as well that it worked as the council here sketches! But the reality turns out, unfortunately, to be a little bit different. We have examples that small publishers have had to stop publishing science precisely because they have experienced this as an excessive economic risk. And publishers who have applied have not received an answer to the application. Given that these little publishers represent a valuable diversity, I think it would be a major cultural policy challenge to make sure that these publishers are also allowed to publish this literature. There's been a lot of trouble around it, and there's not been any trouble for no reason. My follow-up question to the Council of State is: Will the Government recommend a review of this purchasing system to the Government in order to put an end to this unsustainable practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2358	As I said in my first reply to the representative Lånke, it is no longer back than until 1995 that there was a full review of the procedure for books, through the evaluation committee, advice and possibly the appeal of the Civil Ombudsman. I also explained in my reply how the small publishers have a different type of arrangement than the big ones to ensure against the representative Lånke is concerned about. I assume that both the Minister of Culture and the Government will follow this development. Of course, if the scheme is found to have shortcomings and puts the publishers in the situation in which the representative Lånke is concerned, it will be evaluated on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2369	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘According to the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Oslo, the situation for medical research is precarious. [[After item 26 April 2000]] A number of disciplines are in fact under construction due to budgetary problems. This situation has serious consequences both for the quality of education and in Norwegian medicine in general. What will the Council of State do to remedy this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2378	The overall objective of university and higher education policy is that the quality of education, research and dissemination of research results should be at a high international level. The Norwegian medical environment shall be able to follow in and contribute itself to the development of knowledge that is taking place internationally. It is therefore important that we train good doctors and a sufficient number of researchers in medicine. The Faculty of Medicine at the University of Oslo can demonstrate good results in several key areas that contribute to the achievement of these objectives. Among other things, I have noticed the following: There are more doctoral candidates graduates than ever before. There is an increased number of students in medical school. The faculty has introduced comprehensive problem-based learning in the medical study. I am familiar with and aware of the concerns and challenges expressed in the chronicle to which the representative on the pay side refers in his question. However, as regards the resource situation at the Faculty of Medicine, I must stress that universities are budgeted within the framework. In other words, the Governing Board has a great deal of freedom to dispose of the funds in the institutions' budgets internally. Compared to the overall resource situation, the average appropriations are per year. Students were almost stable, measured at constant prices, over the 1990s. Thus, with the strong growth in the number of students over the period, universities have contributed significant budgetary resources, including funds for research. The amount of funding allocated to the field of medicine and health under the Norwegian Research Council has increased slightly in recent years, from 163 million. DKK in 1997 to SEK 198 million. NOK 2000 This corresponds to an increase from 6.0 to 6.6 pst. by the total budget of the Norwegian Research Council. In 2000, a further 16.5 million will be needed. SEK of the fund return of 90 million. kr from the Research and Innovation Fund will be used for medical research, i.e. 18 pst. of the yield. In addition, approx. 3.5 million. SEK of the fund return is used for medical scientific equipment. In connection with the Government’s proposal for a revised national budget, it is proposed to strengthen the fund’s capital by DKK 1 billion. In the Research Communication, medical and medical research is one of four thematic priorities. The review of the Research Communication shows that there is now a general political consensus that priority should be given to medical and health research. In relation to the announced efforts in the Research Communication, the University of Oslo has stated that medicine and health are the thematic field that can be the most significant for the university. The University of Oslo has further worked actively to expand its commitment to more and more resource-intensive medical and health-related interventions within the Fifth Framework Programme of the EU for Research. As regards funding for education and research, I point out that the Stortinget has endorsed a proposal to introduce a new funding model for universities and colleges, cf. the last research communication. The Ministry is now working, in cooperation with representatives from the university and higher education sectors, to develop a model in which research resources are made more visible than today, and I will come back to this in the draft government budget for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2405	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but it is largely limited to referring to decisions that have already been taken and which, to a small extent, at least in the short term, will help to remedy the situation described by the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine in Oslo. The problem is that as long as the Research Council does not fully finance research projects, it is, as is demonstrated in the chronicle, so that accepting research projects from the NFR actually imposes further burden on the faculty from before the needy budget. A significant contribution would be if the Council of State had reason to take out the concrete proposal in the position of the Mjøs Committee, which proposes full funding from the Research Council. That would be a concrete contribution. My question is whether the Council of State is prepared to consider such a concrete contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2412	Let me first say that I share the representative's concern about medical research. The fact that there is also a recruitment problem probably has a certain connection with the wage trend that has developed in the course of curative activities. We will follow up on the research report's message to review the research appropriations. It is also quite natural to see it in the context of the setting of the Mjøs selection, and I do not overlook the fact that we can get parts of the Mjøs selection to get a faster treatment of it in the Stortinget. Which parts and how do I have to get back to? Let me also say that this has a connection with the entire university sector's economy, and I'm glad that the Workers' Party in the deal that we got at the center before Christmas was able to add 100 million. NOK 90 million. extra, to the university sector, of which part of the money will be allocated to recruitment posts for scientific staff and thus also contribute to research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2424	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Norwegian foreign students received special compensation for large losses due to large fluctuations in exchange rates in the autumn of 1997. Now many students are left in a precarious situation because of the strong appreciation of dollars and pounds, by 12 and 10 pst, respectively. relative to the price at the time of payment. This gives the students concerned a loss of between NOK 10 000 and NOK 20 000. What will the Council of State do to compensate students for these losses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2433	In line with the Ministry's proposal in St.meld. No 19 for 1996-97 on training abroad, a block model for setting cost rates for studies abroad has been used. This means that each country is located within a voltage, one block. Each year, it is assessed whether the cost rate of foreign students is to be adjusted due to currency fluctuations. If currency fluctuations result in a country moving from one block to another within the block system for calculating aid amounts, an adjustment to the rate shall be made. It takes place in the harvest holiday and has an effect on the spring holiday. Only the housing aid is subject to adjustment. Travel support, fee grants and additional grants are not adjusted. The special feature of 1997 was that the Storting decided that the fee grant should also be adjusted up to the maximum rate and that adjustments should be made for both the harvest and spring semesters. The evaluation of the spring semester 2000 currency adjustment was based on the average exchange rate for October 1999. It was only costs for Japan that were adjusted for the spring semester. Pounds and dollars were at that time not changed so much that it triggered adjustment. The major currency fluctuations have occurred mainly after the New Year and especially now at the end of April/beginning of May. At the time when most of the students in the United Kingdom and the United States received support for the current academic year, namely in August 1999 when the aid was granted for the autumn, and in the month-end December-January for the spring, the price of pounds and dollars had not changed so much from the date of fixing the rate in April. The students who immediately switched to foreign currency will also have little problem with the subsequent currency fluctuation. From the 2000-2001 academic year, foreign exchange adjustments will be made twice in the course of the study year. But even then, it will be the student's responsibility to make a quick exchange of support from the Loan Fund into the national currency as soon as the support from the Loan Fund has been paid out. It's not about doing anything immediately because of the rise we see for pounds and dollars now in ours. It will be captured in the adjustments for the next academic year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2444	I thank the Council of State for the presentation. On the other hand, I see no reason to thank for the answer to the specific question of what the Council of State will do to remedy this situation, because that was unfortunately the answer: nothing. When you go in and look at the price development for pounds and dollars, it turns out that already in January of the current year there had been a change of between 5 pst. and 8 pst. It should already have triggered reactions, under the existing legislation. What is important, however, is that the Storting explicitly foreseen in the autumn of 1997, when it was introduced, that this should be the last time such adjustments were needed to prevent Norwegian students from going into an impossible economic situation, with the result that only those who have wealthy parents are able to carry out the study process. The assumption of size has been that this should not be done once more. And now the bureaucracy has not been able to finish the new model, so I repeat the question: does the Council not see reason to help the students out of this trouble?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2451	In my first answer, I explained that from the autumn of 2000, we will put in place a system where we will receive currency adjustments twice a year, just to ensure that we get the currency adjustments needed to ensure that the students do not lose. But if the students themselves choose to keep what they have been paid in Norwegian kroner, and change at a later date, the students themselves will take responsibility for it. ANSA President Hege Yli Melhus puts his finger on that particular problem in an interview with the Online Newspaper on Thursday, May 4th, and says: ‘If you do not transfer the money to your national currency when you move, you are at your own risk as a currency speculator’. The changes that occur after the amount is paid and until the change is decided upon cannot be taken into account by the Ministry. But, of course, the Department will follow closely the developments in exchange rates. If it is the case that some move up a block, then one shall adjust at the time I have explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-24.ana.ud2440e2461	That being the case, it is no. 1 on the map of the day has been completed.
