ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e230	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Eirik Langeland Fjeld, has taken the seat. From 11 April to 14 April in order to attend a seminar on national minorities under the auspices of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Antalya, Turkey. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Rita H. Roaldsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e253	Rita H. Roaldsen is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e258	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today and for the remaining meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e263	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e268	Asmund Kristoffersen and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen and Kjell Engebretsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting and the rest of the week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e285	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time for the Foreign Affairs Minister's speeches be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the Minister of Foreign Affairs' posts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e292	The Sixth Conference of Supervisors on the Non-Proliferation Agreement for Nuclear Weapons, which starts in New York over Easter, will discuss a number of issues of vital importance for the prevention of nuclear proliferation. After a very uplifting period of the years that followed the cold war and the fall of the Wall, we unfortunately now look back in five years with far less clear positive trends in international disarmament. Since the last surveillance conference in 1995, there have been significant reductions in nuclear arsenals. But at the same time, the setbacks are also many. The Minister of Foreign Affairs presented the three main objectives of the Government for the Conference of Supervisors. The Christian People's Party supports the strategy of the Government here. The probation agreement has provisionally stranded the fact that the United States, India, Pakistan and North Korea have not yet acceded to the agreement. We share the foreign minister's disappointment and his regret that the US Senate has disagreed with the approval of the probation agreement. It is obvious that the lack of American signatures in such an agreement has a severe negative signal effect and makes it difficult to convince other countries, which have not yet signed the agreement, to join. It was a major breakthrough when the US and Russia agreed in 1993 on strategic strength reductions in the START II agreement. Soon seven years later, this agreement has not yet been ratified by the Duma in Russia. If we are to believe the messages that came today, there may be hope that the Duma will approve the agreement on Friday. This could then pave the way for negotiations on further reductions in strategic forces. The difficulty of initiating negotiations on a contractual ban on the production of fissile materials for weapon purposes represents a major and serious challenge. In spite of the fact that the 1995 Conference of Supervisors concluded that the work on banning such weapons production should take priority and be started immediately after the termination of the probation agreement, it has proved very difficult to reach such an agreement. This must therefore be re-examined at the forthcoming Conference of Supervisors, and I am pleased that Norway has taken the initiative of a number of concrete proposals on this occasion. However, an agreement prohibiting the further production of fissile materials to weapons is only part of a larger problem complex that needs to be given greater attention within the NPT framework: the management of fissile materials in general. Large amounts of plutonium and high-enriched uranium are currently a major handling problem. The excess material resulting from compliance with disarmament agreements results in the risk of spreading, even without new production of fissile materials. These huge stockpiles of weapons, a total of over 1600 tonnes, must in the long term be subject to binding and effective multinational mechanisms that prevent the use of the material for weapons, balance or develop into an unmanageable threat to the environment. A prerequisite for getting into port with multinational negotiations on, for example, the handling of fissile materials is increased transparency and information exchange between nuclear weapons. This has previously been initiated by Norway, together with Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy and Germany. This work must continue with the driving force of Norway in order to establish dialogue and open up the exchange of information on nuclear weapons at the Geneva Disarmament Conference. As is known, Norway is not a nuclear power. Nor are we directly involved in negotiations on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. Nevertheless, Norway, with its strong impact on other efforts for international peace and stability, has a responsibility and an important role to play as a driving force and as an initiator on these issues as well. This role is our hope that the Norwegian delegation can play actively at the New York Supervisory Conference in three weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e313	The Non-Proliferation Agreement, NPT, provides the basis of international law for preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and reducing weapons arsenals. Prior to the Sixth Conference of Supervisors of the NPT Agreement, it is particularly important to maintain the overall objectives of the international disarmament and non-proliferation work. Furthermore, it is essential that the objective is followed by concrete measures. The statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the United Kingdom provides a thorough review of the Government's disarmament policy priorities prior to the Conference of Supervisors for the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons Agreement. Now we are in front of the first supervisory conference in the new millennium, and the first after the non-proliferation agreement was extended indefinitely. It will now be of great importance to ensure continued confidence in the main building blocks of the international regime for stability, disarmament and non-proliferation. This framework is built up over many years, and now the basis must be laid for further progress in this work. The world has been plagued by nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction for 55 years since Hiroshima and Nagasaki. It's been 30 years since we got the Non-Proliferation Agreement. Nevertheless, it was the end of the cold war that created dynamism in disarmament. Disarmament is being challenged by new issues. In the past, the main concern was the extensive arms programmes in a few countries. Now the challenge of few weapons is increasing in more and more countries. New technologies provide greater scope for the development of long-range means of delivery. This makes the situation more inconspicuous. Some countries have built up their arsenals of nuclear weapons. Indian and Pakistan's tests in the spring of 1998 show that we have a long way to go in the field of international security. North Korea's long-range missile development programme gives cause for concern. The same applies to the unbridled situation in the Middle East with regard to rocket and nuclear weapons programmes. China is in the process of implementing a modernisation programme for its strategic forces. Much also suggests that Russia places increased emphasis on nuclear weapons as part of its military strategy. These include: Against this background, we need to see the US plans for a limited national missile defence, called the NMD, to protect American territory from rocket attacks with weapons of mass destruction. These plans meet with many questions both from the Norwegian side and from many of our Western European allies. For example, it has to be. clarify the impact of the NMD on the ABM Agreement and the international non-proliferation and disarmament regime. The American plans must be seen as a real concern for the new threat picture. At the same time, the ABM Agreement and the NPT Agreement are cornerstones of the International Works of Agreement in terms of stability and disarmament. The ABM Agreement is a bilateral agreement between the United States and Russia, but is of great importance to the entire international arms control and disarmament regime. The strategic balance of this agency must therefore also be taken into account for the purposes of assessments among other nuclear powers. It is of great importance that the ABM Agreement is respected. The Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement also strongly emphasises the desire to maintain the ABM agreement as a cornerstone of the strategic balance. We all want the next millennium to be safer and better than what we just got out of. In order to achieve this, the non-proliferation regime must be maintained and strengthened. It is therefore so important that the Foreign Minister’s statement focuses on maintaining the non-proliferation regime, building on what has been achieved, and realistically seeking to take new steps to develop and strengthen the disarmament process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e334	The Progress Party broadly agrees with the Foreign Minister's presentation. I have not been able to record that the two posts that have been here today have brought something new, and I therefore find no reason to use Stortingen's time to provide a short version of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e339	It is essential for small countries and for mankind to ensure that nuclear weapons will not be put into service. Against this background, it is not difficult to share the Government’s basic intention to contribute to strengthening Norwegian security policy through participation in international non-proliferation policies. However, we must always bear in mind that the reality of security policy can be different from what our ideals want it to be. We are increasingly seeing that the spread of fissile material is not primarily a phenomenon that can be interpreted within the framework of the former peace movement's struggle for the total abolition of nuclear weapons. At that time it was about doing so-called pressure on the powers to get ahead of the disarmament process. Today, however, the proliferation of nuclear weapons appears to be a consequence of an increasingly inconceivable global security policy situation, where so-called irresponsible regimes acquire nuclear weapons. These are regimes where the popular pressure hardly plays any visible role, and there are regimes that can also be used for their weakness in the international game of mass destruction. The available data show that more and more countries outside NATO have acquired nuclear weapons. Several states are also working intensively on this. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned a particular concern related to North Korea and the unbridled situation in the Middle East. This development has been reflected in NATO's new strategic concept. The alliance sees the proliferation of nuclear weapons as a key safety challenge into the new millennium. At the same time, we are aware of NATO's essential role as the pillar of the security policy map in Europe, a Europe characterised by a strong reduction in weapons arsenals. This reflects the importance of solid security policy anchoring with a view to meeting new security policy challenges. Norway, therefore, must not lose sight of the real security policy horizon in its drive for disarmament. For this reason, it is commendable that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is celebrating NATO's work to review its arms control work in its presentation. However, I would like to question what the Foreign Minister really thinks when he calls his statement a disarmament policy statement. Does the government here bring about a long-term disarmament strategy, and what should it be based on? A concrete question in this way is what will be the government's policy in relation to the so-called New Agenda Coalition initiative, which has been promoted by a group of states in the context of ordinary UN General Assemblys. On a number of occasions, the Workers' Party has asked for interviews on this at Stortinget last November. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs work on the inclusion of the New Agenda Coalition initiative as part of the Government's disarmament strategy, and how might this affect Norway's vote if the initiative were to come up again in the future? For the Right, we have warned against developments where Norway is facing a similar situation as in 1996, when the Workers' Party broke out of the NATO circle of countries and abstained from voting against the Malaysia resolution on the immediate removal of all nuclear weapons. The situation in Norway has probably changed since the Cold War, but the importance of belonging to a solid security community, such as NATO, has not diminished. That's why we don't have to behave so that in this context we also end up on the sidelines of an important community for us. It is essential to have a realistic perspective on what can be achieved internationally. As a small country, Norway must have a broad security policy agenda geared towards what is in our security policy interest. The most crucial is the demonstration of Russia’s willingness to continue disarmament through the ratification of the START II Agreement and the renegotiation of START III. The situation in Russia directly affects our neighbourhoods, and it should therefore be a priority task for us to ensure that both fissile material and nuclear waste disarmament and control are safely carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e354	The agreement on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, the so-called NPT, is central to international disarmament. The monitoring conference in New York in a short time will be held at a time when the negotiations on the follow-up to this important agreement agency will be held. If the conference in New York does not have the power to bring the NPT negotiations out of deadlock, at worst, it could mean that the work on disarmament is stopping, with the security policy implications it will have for the entire international community. Therefore, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs announces that one of the Norwegian authorities intends to ‘record proposals for measures’ that may create movement in the supervisory process, there will be broad support in the Stortinget. The non-proliferation agreement has now proved to be an effective agreement. Large amounts of nuclear weapons have been removed or destroyed. NATO has, for example: removed 85 pst. of its tactical nuclear weapons. However, four States have not yet committed themselves to the Non-Proliferation Agreement, namely India, Pakistan, Israel and Cuba. Of these four, one could certainly say that the first three have nuclear weapons today. At the same time, we know that these very states are living in tense relationships with neighbouring countries. It is obvious that the further detachment and therefore the security of these areas depends on the willingness of the four countries to commit on the basis of the NPT Agreement. The balance between the main powers is currently good, but it can be quickly tangled, with weakened confidence and new upgrading as a result. There is considerable responsibility on the United States for not initiating such a spiral process. If the United States decides unilaterally to outsource the missile defence – NMD – this could lead to Russia bringing the so-called ABM agreement out of place. The ABM agreement is a cornerstone of the International Agreement for Control and Disarmament today. If it goes by unilateral action on the part of the United States, it may mean that the positive development one has had in the disarmament work not only stops, but in the worst case it can be turned to new disarmament. I assume that the allied NATO countries are in dialogue with the United States on this, and that Norway's concerns arise in this regard. In many countries, the current uncertainty and concern about US NMD plans is due to the increasing use of a unilateral approach by the United States in its disarmament and non-proliferation policies, to the use of its own formulation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The American Senate's refusal to approve the probation agreement has aroused legitimate international scrutiny and has so far prevented a wider conclusion to the agreement. Developments have shown that the existing disarmament agreements are insufficient to meet today’s challenges. No disarmament agreement covers what appears to be a growing problem today, namely the availability of different forms of fissile material, plutonium and high-enriched uranium. Around the world, large quantities of these substances are stored unsatisfactoryly. There is hardly any exaggeration when the Foreign Minister refers to the lack of control and verification of such stocks as ‘a threat to global security’. It mentions a number of measures that need to be included in a strategy to ensure the control, transparency and reduction of such materials. This is an environmental problem that Norway has just outside the learner and which should therefore have the highest priority when Norway is to make concrete proposals in the context of the supervisory process. Analysis of the disarmament situation today shows that there are several factors that slow down further positive developments in the work of international disarmament and arms control: in addition to the plans of the United States to deploy its new missile defence and to refuse to ratify the test stop agreement, India and Pakistan have to be mentioned in 1998, the North Korea long-range missile development programme, China’s modernisation programme and Russia’s current failure to ratify START II, which appears to be falling into place during this week. Sometimes a little bit of a feeling that everyone's waiting for everyone. The main task of the forthcoming Conference of Supervisors must therefore be to resolve the ‘deadlock’ situation that one currently has in the disarmament process. Significant diplomatic intelligence is required to get out of the locked situation so that the process can once again be based on progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e375	The work to limit the spread of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction is among the most important tasks that need to be solved in order to create security in the coming period. SV is satisfied with the active attitude presented by the Government in this area. Nuclear weapons are still a serious threat to peace and security. Not least, we now have an increased risk of nuclear use in regional and local conflicts. In the 1990s, we experienced strong progress in disarmament. It may therefore seem surprising that we seem to have growing problems associated with nuclear weapons. Multiple moves indicate that this is the case. Firstly, we now see that several countries have developed or are developing weapons of mass destruction in general and nuclear weapons in particular. Of course, it is serious that a country takes steps to develop or acquire nuclear weapons, regardless of their governance and political arrangements. It is particularly serious that countries that are not willing to follow the rules of the international community do so. There is a clear tendency for nuclear weapons to play a central role in the military strategy of major powers possessing them. Russia now appears to have a more central role to play in nuclear weapons than in the past. It is also worrying that the United States is showing a somewhat different attitude than a few years ago. The U.S. Senate decision not to approve the probation agreement was a very unfortunate blow to work to limit the use and proliferation of nuclear weapons. It is important that Western countries, nuclear powers and others take a leading role in this work. The third sign of the increased importance of nuclear weapons is that the United States has for a long time planned the deployment of a missile defense against ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads, abbreviated NMD. There are significant problems associated with the establishment of an American rocket defense. The development of the NMD would be a breach of the ABM agreement, one of the main arms control agreements. SV shares the Government’s assessment that this agreement is a cornerstone of the International Works of Agreements. We see it as an absolute premise that the United States and Russia agree on adjustments to this agreement before a U.S. decision is taken. It would be contrary to Norway’s interests if the United States developed a comprehensive rocket defence against Russia’s expressed will. It can increase the tension between the West and Russia in a way that impedes our relationship with Russia and increases the tension in the northern regions. The United States argues that the limited missile defence will not target Russia or China, but only against minor attacks from what one might call ‘bandit states’. It is claimed that the United States and Russia have common interests in preventing them from threatening the major acts. Of course, this is true, but there are significant problems with the argument. Firstly, no country other than the United States will have technology or economy to develop similar systems. In other words, it is a unilateral action by the United States. Secondly, the development of a limited system will also mean a potential for further development into a larger system, which may also be a defence against Russia. This is Russia's main reason to go so strongly against it. It remains to be seen whether or not an agreement is agreed that can calm other countries, thus limiting the tension around the development of NMD. The result of any expansion of the NMD is not given, but it is close to believing that it will lead to upgrading rather than disarmament. Foreign Minister Thorbjørn Jagland said in his statement that the NMD plans meet with a number of questions from Norway. Does this mean that the Government will address the questions with the US authorities before taking the decision? In the opinion of the SV, Norway should state clearly that the development of an American missile defence is a step in the wrong direction in relation to the target, which must be full disarmament of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e394	It has been a long time since there has been such a broad consensus in the Storting on such an important question as it is here today. There is agreement from the Progress Party to SV, to say it that way. The government is very pleased about that. What was embedded in my presentation was, moreover, a continuation of what the previous government stood for. It is good to know that there is such a broad consensus before the NPT conference in New York. In this way, there would have been no need for me to say anything more here today, but let me nevertheless comment on a few questions that have been raised in the debate. Everyone has pointed out the need for the early entry into force of the termination agreement. That's one of the most important elements. Neither the United States, Russia, nor China have ratified, and the Indian and Pakistan trials were a serious setback for the entire disarmament process. It is clear that these are the views that Norway will make in all the forums where we act in relation to these questions. It has also been pointed out here, among others. from Einar Steensnæs, the need for Russia to ratify the START II Agreement. I agree with him that it can now be a hope that the Duma actually does. It would be a great step forward if this agreement were to be ratified so that a START III agreement could also be launched. Several have affected the ABM agreement and its position in relation to the plans for a national anti-missile defence by the United States. I would like to stress that no decision has been made on the American team. I can only confirm that questions from Lisbet Ruggtvedt from SV about Norway are going to deal with the Americans, that of course we will. We are going to express our concern about this, as other European countries have done. It is positive to see that there is now contact between NATO countries and the United States in this area. Otherwise, I am glad that both Einar Steensnæs and Johan J. Jakobsen put great emphasis on the handling of fissile material and that negotiations on the prohibition of the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons must be initiated soon. With regard to Siri Frost Sterri's question concerning the 7-country initiative on the new agenda for disarmament, I would like to say that we share the objective of a nuclear-free world and, of course, support initiatives that can help to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in international policy. The problem with this motion for a resolution has been that it has been unbalanced and contains so many problematic elements that, in sum, it has led to the rejection of Norway and almost all other European countries. Among other things, I can Please mention that a problematic point is that the test explosions of India and Pakistan are not mentioned in clear order. We do not yet know whether the motion for a resolution will be presented again at the autumn General Assembly of the United Nations. If it is presented, we will enter into an open dialogue with the proposers to see if it is possible to join the resolution. But I don't want to make any progress here, because the proposal needs to be more balanced, among other things. at the point I mentioned, so that it will be possible for us to join or vote for it. Then I want to join the concern that, among other things. Hill-Marta Solberg had so that many countries now put increased emphasis on nuclear weapons. It's called'modernization', but unfortunately I have to say that it means that the emphasis on nuclear weapons is again increased. That's worrying, because you really should go the opposite way. We hope that the conference in New York can form the basis for this development to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e414	With regard to the management of fissile materials, Norway has taken special, special and important initiatives in relation to our large eastern neighbour, namely Russia. I think it is important to stress that the framework agreement on nuclear safety cooperation with Russia from 1998 is followed up by binding remediation measures, both to prevent an environmental disaster, or a nuclear disaster, and to prevent a lack of follow-up of non-proliferation in the north from lowering further nuclear disarmament in general. The condition of success is that the framework agreement is followed up by the support of the other co-operation countries in the agreement, namely the United States, the Nordic countries and the European Commission. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how he assesses the possibilities to follow up with further initiatives to our partners in this agreement in order to ensure that it is realised and realised. And how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs assess Russia's attitude and willingness to be able to pursue the commitments set out in the framework agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e422	First, I would like to say that it is absolutely right that Steensnæs points out that this framework agreement is important and that we must do everything we can to ensure that it is followed up. It is very important to continue to involve the United States and the European Commission in it. We take up these questions, like the previous government, when we have occasion to do it. The possibility of further initiatives I can't say anything about now. But what I can say is that there are meetings with both the US and Russian Foreign Minister – not particularly about this, but in the discussions of course the question raised by Steensnæs will be raised, so that the need to follow up this framework agreement is constantly recalled by the Norwegian side. Therefore, how I assess Russia's willingness to follow up, I cannot answer any more. I don't think I know anything more about it than what Steensnæs does. It's been a presidential change in Russia. Much indicates that there is more positive will from Russia now. The messages that the Duma may say yes to the ratification of the START II agreement are such a positive sign, and it may hopefully indicate that there is also greater will in other areas in relation to this field. But I am glad that Steensnæs took it up and pointed out what should be done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e431	I allow myself to point out that the Minister of Foreign Affairs became very unclear when he was going to comment on the Government's position on the so-called New Agenda Coalition initiative. The reason why this is emphasised by the Right is that the Workers' Party has on several occasions promoted interpellations on the New Agenda Coalition initiative, precisely with a view to getting Norway to contribute to this. The last time the Workers' Party did it was last November. The current Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk characterised this initiative as ‘unbalanced’ and the text as ‘problematic’. Now I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his attempt to have an opinion on this, also used the words 'unbalanced' and 'problematic'. However, when I find reason to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on this further, it is precisely because, in his statement last week, he stated that a central element of the disarmament strategy «must be a contractual prohibition on the future production of fissile materials for weapons purposes». This is a direct rendering of Section 12 of the Resolution of the New Agenda Coalition. That is why, on behalf of the Right Minister for Foreign Affairs, I ask him to clarify the framework within which he will find it natural to promote such a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e443	The last thing I can answer is clear. The framework for promoting the view on the prohibition of the production of fissile materials is the conference to be held in New York. There the Norwegian view of it will be promoted, and I am glad that it has at least been supported by a majority here in the Chamber. It is not right that there is an unclear relationship with the New Agenda initiative. What I said was that we agree – the Labour Party has been for a very long time – with the goal of a nuclear-free world. The question is how we get there, and in this context I also said that this initiative is unbalanced, among other things. because it is not mentioned in clear order – and, regrettably, in order – the trial bombings of India and Pakistan, which were a major setback, and it was an important part of my statement here in the Stortinget. There is at least one important point in which we object to this initiative. If you want to get on with nuclear disarmament, you have to look at all those who have nuclear weapons and those who are developing nuclear weapons. It is claimed that one reason why India and Pakistan are involved in the testing is the old nuclear powers' attitude to this issue. It can't be accepted. In our view, there is no such reason for continuing the testing process, and it has to be clearly incorporated into this text.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e448	On the SV side, we note that the Foreign Minister will use the opportunity to express his concern in relation to the United States' plans for the deployment of a missile defense against ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads. It's a pleasure. But we want to move on, for another very important question and argument from India, Pakistan and other countries that acquire nuclear weapons, to NATO countries are the following: With what moral right does countries that not only have a defence based on nuclear weapons but also a defense based on the first use of nuclear weapons, us who want to have it? So NATO's own nuclear strategy is an argument that other countries want to acquire nuclear weapons, and therefore my question is to the Foreign Minister: Will Norway take the initiative to change NATO's own nuclear strategy – a strategy that reserves the right to be the defence alliance that uses nuclear weapons first? It would be a very important contribution to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and a very important contribution to disarmament and greater peace in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e453	I have also noticed that such arguments are being used by India and Pakistan to continue testing. These are arguments that I don't want to accept. You can object to the policies of the old nuclear powers. We do, but it cannot be used as an argument for other countries to develop their own nuclear weapons. If you do that, you get into an evil spiral, which you really don't get out of. That's exactly what we should try to get out of the armaments spiral that you've been in for some time in the postwar period. In our opinion, there are no moral reasons and no political and military reasons why other countries should continue to develop their own nuclear weapons. On the issue of NATO's nuclear strategy, among others: This was discussed at the NATO Summit last year, and it was then agreed to go through the whole NATO strategy. There is now a process of different working groups, etc., and we are given the opportunity to discuss this issue in the course of this presentation. But I don't think it's right for me to go into it now until you get a complete material and an overall assessment on the table of what can be done with it. The goal now must be to get us out of this spiral and not put new arguments on the table so that new countries can develop nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e460	Of course, when it comes to the conservation of nuclear weapons, the world looks different whether you are a NATO country, like Norway, or whether you are based on Indian or Pakistani relations. You can distance yourself from the arguments that India and Pakistan use to get nuclear weapons, but the moral pathosis from NATO countries that raises the index finger to other countries that want to get nuclear weapons, and that don't want to meet non-proliferation agreements, it can be seen from the south is double-ethnic. I am aware that NATO is going to review the entire nuclear strategy, and I also understand that the Foreign Minister will await that review. But a political leadership, a political stance and views from the Government on whether the first-use strategy – used by many countries to acquire nuclear weapons – is a strategy that we are going to hold on to for a new millennium, I would like to think from the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e465	I totally agree that the world looks different from different sides of the world, and that it depends on what eyes you see. But in the case of nuclear weapons, you have to have the moral starting point that these are weapons that you should prefer to get rid of, and that there are no arguments that are good enough to continue developing these weapons. That's why we've taken such a clear distance from the bombings to India and Pakistan and all the other countries involved in the testing. As far as NATO's nuclear strategy is concerned, it would be best if you got there that you could get away from that strategy, but it has to be seen in a whole context. We get the opportunity to go through it when we have the result of the whole process on the table. I don't think it's right of me to say anything more about it now. We will have the opportunity to have a wide-ranging debate on this after all. But the moral starting point for this, and for all countries, should, in our opinion, be to gradually reduce the importance of nuclear weapons. I think one should have the same attitude as Albert Einstein when he saw the result of the use of the first nuclear weapons against Hiroshima. He expressed it this way: if I had known the result of my work, I would rather be a shoemaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e472	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e486	I understand that there is a Document No. The 8th proposal, which we are now discussing, expresses a strong dissatisfaction with the follow-up to the large housing tax case from 1996 to 1997. The taxation of housing is an important matter. There was a great deal of commitment when the matter was being dealt with in the Storting in 1996-1997, and I can say that there is still a great need to make changes so that we get a system of Bustadtaxation and housing tax that is perceived as more understandable, reasonable and fair than we have today. At the time the Financial Committee received this Document No. The 8-proposal was submitted by Bondevik, the government, that a proposition on the use of Bustadt and the assessment of other conversions in the housing tax would come to the Stortinget in April this year. This, together with Document No. The 8 proposal had a couple of elements that probably wouldn't provide the necessary simplification and clarification, so a number in the committee chose to go in to send the matter over to the Government for evaluation in connection with the proposition mentioned. Now I have recorded that the new finance minister has said that he needs a little bit more time before he presents the proposition. I hope that in today's debate he is very clear that this does not involve a very long postponement. We were impatient to come up with this matter under the previous government, and the outrage has not diminished. It would therefore be very positive if the proposition came to Stortinget before summer. I will deal with the proposal that has been submitted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e503	Ingrigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e508	I record that Ingebrigt Sørfonn from the Christian People's Party expresses a very passive attitude towards what the party really thinks about the housing tax system. I understand that when the matter was dealt with in the Finance Committee, I chose to send it to the then Bondevik administration, but when the matter was dealt with in the spring of 1997, the Christian People's Party and the Left were very clear that the housing should not be a tax item, and that it was not suitable as a tax item, and that they wanted to ensure that the home was not a tax item for the authorities. But then the Senterpartiet stood with the Workers' Party and had a different attitude to this. I record that the Christian People's Party now agrees with both the Center Party and the Workers' Party, but I would like to challenge the representative Sørfonn on what the Christian People's Party now believes about the housing tax system. Has the dwelling suddenly become a tax item, or is it not a tax item? What is the Christian People's Party's position on this issue? Has the opinion changed since the setting in spring 1997?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e515	No, the Christian People's Party does not have a passive attitude on this issue – nor in others – nor have we changed our position. When it comes to our position and our programme formula on housing taxes, it is because we want to remove the taxing of the benefit of our own housing. We said something in the previous round about wealth taxes, but now we're waiting for what happens to the entire wealth tax. If we wish to see this document no. The 8-proposal, in conjunction with the announcement of the whole thing in the Bustadtaxation and the housing tax, has nothing to do with passivity, but we want to see this in context, we want to see the consequences of it and make decisions that really work in such a way that the world is not perceived as a tax object, but that we get a set of housing taxes that are viewed as understandable, reasonable and fair, as far as it can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e522	Now the representative Sørfonn is benevolence himself, so I understand that he would like to underline the part of his policy in which he wants to eliminate the tax on housing benefits. Secondly, it is a little surprising that the former government of Bondevik, based on the Christian People's Party's program formulation on the removal of the entire benefit tax on housing, first had to increase the tariff base by 20 pst. then come back with a removal, if necessary. But enough about it. What's also surprising is that it's taken so long to get the new tariff base on the table. In the spring of 1997, the majority of the financial committee wrote that the tariff base at that time was ‘the highest unsatisfactory and must be replaced by a better system’. My question to Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party is: when the party really wants to remove the house tax, why can't you go in for a proposal from the Right that sets a limit of 30 pst. of market value or entry costs, in order to create greater justice in the current system until the new system is put in place? The point is that there are dwellings with a rate of 80 pst. of market value, and then dwellings with a tariff of 10 pst. It can be in the same residential area. Will such a proposal also be accepted by the Christian People’s Party if it turns out that the new housing tax system takes time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e531	In my post, I stated that we had been impatient to come up with this matter, even under the previous government, and I said that the situation has not diminished. I hope that the Minister of Finance will take note of that. I said that we would see it as very positive if the proposition came to Stortinget before the summer. That's unbearable. There should be no move in doubt. So ask the representative Burnde why we can't go in on the proposal from the Right. I'll try to explain it a little more in-depth. First of all, I have said that we think it is good to look at everything in context and not to pick out individual items. However, we will discuss the individual elements contained in Document No. The 8 proposal from the Right is called the ‘observable market value’ concept as a starting point for this 30 pst. determination. Even if one has a 30 pst fixed circumference, it is uncertain what is observable market value, and we know that different tax companies and other tax collectors can arrive at very different values. There is a weak side to this proposal that comes from, among other things. Mr Brende. The second is that one has limited this to only those who are anchoring the fare. In general, this should not apply to all those who are taxed for their own housing, but only to those who are anchoring the rate setting. We know that, for some reason, not everyone is anchoring, and those who may need the most to get a lower price do not have the ability to make use of the ability to anchor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e538	It will be almost entertaining to hear Sørfonn tell us about his impatience after getting this matter out. I just want to remind you that the Bondevik government put in power for two and a half years, and we didn't even see any tendency for such a system to be put on the table. It is nice to note that Sørfonn is still impatient, but it is also easy to see that the Bondevik administration did not do any of the world's things with the housing tax system. It is good to note that Sørfonn knows the Christian People's Party program. I have not been in any doubt about that. But now that the central parties have, in a way, allied themselves to the opposition in the Stortinget with Kjell Magne Bondevik as a common speaker, it would be interesting to know whether the views expressed by the representative Sørfonn from this pulpit are also representative of the Left and the Center Party, or whether it is such that the Christian People's Party is standing here presenting its party programmatic formulations and perhaps going to mean something else when we get such a case to deal with at some point. I would like to know whether this position is common to these three parties, or whether it stands for the Christian People's Party alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e545	First of all, I thought it was very nice that the representative, Siv Jensen, thought it had been entertaining to listen to me. I really appreciate that. I hope she will continue with that. Then the representative Jensen says that the government of Bondevik had not done anything to get this case out. It's directly wrong. There was a proposition on this matter that was due to come in April this year. So it's done a good bit. We know that this is a heavy and complicated matter. The previous round, the background for the case, happened in the semester 1996-97, I'm not thinking exactly what time. It is a non-small background material to be provided to provide a serious documentation. There are some things I cannot do about it. I've said we were impatient. The thing was on the stairs, so it's not correct that nothing had been done. Rather, on the contrary, the matter was capable of being presented. So the representative Jensen asks about how the Senterpartiet and the Left are dealing with this. I think these parties themselves are able to answer what they mean about this matter. We have not yet received anything from the Government. But when the proposition comes, hopefully pretty soon, we're free to deal with this. It will be an interesting treatment. I think we should figure out a good solution to this. Finally, a message has been sent to me: the proposal that we are looking forward to also wants to be part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e556	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e559	The housing tax system is, to the most extent, not entertainment for most people. It's very serious. A lot of people probably experience very great injustices related to what they sometimes experience in their own street, that someone is sitting with old cablings, which give them huge inequalities compared to recent cablings. When we dealt with this in the Financial Committee in 1996-1997, it was a great commitment. In retrospect, I think someone could have thought that the commitment had been somewhat broader political anchored. The treatment in the financial committee at that time was very marked by the parties who wanted taxes on housing, while those who did not want taxes on housing had rather little involvement with the system that would be present if the tax were now there. What we adopted in Stortinget, which was a compromise between the Workers' Party and the Center Party, was a demanding compromise. I have personally understood that the Government has had some difficulties in putting the compromise into practice, but the small leakages we have received – and they have been extremely small – from the former government in this context, have at least drawn a picture of the fact that a system was about to replace one to the degrees inappropriate system, seen with all, most of the eyes. On the part of the Workers' Party, we have the ambition that the new Government will naturally have to go through the material they have been given from previous governments in a thorough manner, but that they will return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal for what a future tariff system on housing should be. When we get that far, I get to hope that there's still an commitment to how a fairest tariff system should be, also from parties that might not initially be particularly happy with the fact that there's tax on housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e574	Erik Dalheim is quite right that there are still some parties in the Stortinget that do not believe that the dwelling is suitable for tax purposes and that have been stuck on it for all years. The representative of Dalheim was also on the financial committee for the previous period. I would like to quote from the setting of the housing tax system at the time: ‘The majority therefore believe that it is high time that a new, uniform and fairer housing tax system was introduced.’ It was justified by the same majority, namely the Workers' Party and the Centre, that owning a home was important, and that there was also a significant savings quote for most people. It was also written in the notes from these two parties that it was not right to have a heavy tax on dwellings. I could imagine knowing what is the Workers' Party's definition of a fair pricing system. What is the fair tax on the dwelling? What is the fair tax on dwellings of different standards, of old-age dwellings, on which older people tend to sit? Does the Workers' Party believe that it is right that these dwellings should be taxed heavily? Or is it more correct that you use the hard-saving means you have, for example. to keep the dwelling straight? Here are some things that I think it might be interesting to hear the views of the Workers' Party. I believe that the Labour Party has a position on this, even though they are now in government. I would like to hear if Erik Dalheim and the Workers' Party have changed their mind since the election in the spring of 1997.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e588	The working party has not changed its view in relation to housing tax from the retirement in 1997. What we have as a basis for housing taxation is not, of course, a tax that should or should operate in such a way that people almost have to leave the farm and land. The current tax rate is not there either. But the fact that the tax base is very different is a reality that we've had to look into in our eyes for too many years now. When Siv Jensen refers to the very thorough treatment we had in 1996-1997, it well revealed that some millimeters of justice are not possible here. For example, the valuation of dwellings is very fluctuating. This means that you have to assume some objective criteria that can be fixed over time. The sketch given by the Workers' Party and the Centre's party, which was the setting, was based on this. Nevertheless, it has proved difficult for the former government to come to Stortinget with a proposal. But as Sørfonn has now pointed out, it was now on the bed, and I assume that the current Minister of Finance will follow it up in a good way, and that we will get a draft for treatment in the Stortinget which is good and which will also have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e595	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e598	The Progress Party wants to remove the tax on property and also to remove the property tax, because we are concerned about the impact of today's system. It is based on a large degree of randomness and is therefore fundamentally unfair, not only between different parts of the country or different parts of a municipality, but in fact also within the individual residential area. The fares vary from less than 10 pst. up to 80 pst. of fair value of the dwelling. This happens then completely independently of tax ability. This injustice is increasing with the annual percentage increase in the tariff base. You might ask, what other kind of tax would we levy on such a random basis? One of the most important things about taxes must be that the printing is done in such a way that it is perceived as reasonable, comprehensible and fair. It is therefore particularly disappointing that the centre parties will not support the proposal from the Right, and that in view of what they said in the election campaign on reduced housing tax. After two and a half years in government, nothing has happened. Now we have at least the opportunity to do something about the most unreasonable results of today's practice. Unfortunately, the majority proposal means a postponement, probably in several years, in order to get something done for those affected by today's unfortunate practices. We're sorry. That there are weaknesses in the proposal is probably correct, but it will in any case provide significantly better situation for very many, and any weaknesses are only minor compared to current practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e607	Perhaps the representative will take up the proposal in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e610	I figured one of the representatives from the Right would do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e615	And then we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e618	I then take up the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right, so I will not forget it at the end – now it is at least advanced. Of course, we had hoped that we would get more support for that proposal, especially from the centre parties, who – at least two of them – have programmed that they would remove the house tax. We had actually expected to get support for a proposal that would essentially only correct the injustices that are in today's tariff system. As I also said in a reply to the representative Sørfonn, the taxation of housing today is highly random and unfair, among other things. because the Equation tariffs vary greatly, regardless of the real value of the dwelling. For the Right, it's an independent goal that as many as want to own their own home, and for that reason we will also protect people's homes against taxation. In 1997, the former government parties, i.e. the central parties, also opted for clear promises of reduced housing tax. The centre party was to remove the house tax on ordinary dwellings, while the Christian People's Party and the Left were to eliminate the tax on the benefits of own-dwelling. The left actually went as far as calling the tax on housing a rent to the state, I remember – I remember there was a nice word game in it. Despite this, the preliminary trend is that the tax on housing for general dwellings has been increased by the tax decisions for 1998 and 2000. This increase has been made on a tax basis such as the majority of the Inst. S. No 143 for 1996-97 in the spring of 1997 characterised as follows: ‘The majority indicate that there is therefore an urgent need to clarify the tariff base so that similar dwellings across the country are valued somewhat equally. Today's taxiing system is highly unsatisfactory and must be replaced by a better system.» So what the right is asking for today is just a safety valve until a new system is in place, that's that what's in the equation ABC as a guide to the equality offices, that a dwelling should not be valued at more than approx. 30 pst. of the entry costs, should be the starting point. We react very strongly to the fact that there are examples in Oslo that you can have a dwelling, for example. on Bygdøy, which has 10 pst. of market value, and then you can have a much smaller dwelling, which might have 40-50 pst. by market value, elsewhere in the city. So you have a nice home that you pay less house tax compared to a smaller one. This proposal is independent of the whole discussion on the level at which we are going to apply the housing tax. It's simply an attempt to create justice in the system. The basis for the tax on the benefit of owner-occupied dwellings, property taxes and property taxes is still based on an arbitrary tariff system and the level of treatment of similar dwellings within the same residential area. Despite this, housing taxes have increased. So it's said that we might have to wait for the new housing tax system to come into place. Then I have a question to the Minister of Finance, who I registered comes after me, about what progress the Council of State and the Government have been thinking about the new housing tax system. It was supposed to be presented now in April. At that time, the centre parties had an adequate justification, in relation to the fact that this proposal was to be seen in that context. Of course you can discuss it. I also thought at the time that it would take such a long time for a new tax system to be in place, that in the meantime, the government should instruct the Equations Offices that the underlying elements of the Equations ABC should also be the starting point. That was the point. And I'm actually certain that there should be equality in terms of how the Equations Offices interpret the Equations ABC at that point. It may be exciting to hear what the Government has thought about progress in this matter. After all, the central government spent two and a half years promoting the Lundtigen model – it was not enough. And we've been told that if it had arrived in the spring, then Lundtigen would have had reason to be disappointed. For that system was not very practical. I actually feel a little sorry for the new finance minister who's going to work through it, but he's probably finding a solution. Now, of course, the Workers' Party does not have the problem that they are for the removal of the benefit tax on housing, as some others had when they actually increased the tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e636	Mr. Brende has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e641	When we dealt with the housing tax system in the spring of 1997, it was, with my eyes – I get to limit it – a problem that right at the time had no involvement with what a housing tax system should be like. The basic reason for that was that you did not want a tax on the dwelling. Now I register that Børge Brende, and in and of itself also Siv Jensen, has an involvement in what a tariff system should be like if we have a house tax. I would like to ask Mr. Børge Brende: will that commitment also be constructive when the Labour Party Government comes up with its proposal for a new tax system? I think it will be a strength for those affected by housing taxes, that the tax system has the widest possible anchoring also in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e647	I thank you for the invitation, it was probably well-being from Dalheim's side. He knows the Right, and of course we are constructive and take responsibility. However, it is true that this case was the case that in the spring of 1997 there was actually a majority in the Stortinget – and the same majority now exists – who stood behind the decision of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, namely the decision on the Lundtigen model when it came to the taxation of dwellings. We were against that system. We thought it had a lot of weaknesses and warned that time against it, so if the government is in the vicinity of promoting something similar to the Lundtigen model, I think this case will take an incredibly long time. Not only will it take a long time to promote the matter, I think it might be problematic enough for the finance minister, but the signals from the equality offices and valuers around the country indicate that it will also take a very long time to get the system in place and get the tariff base clear. It'll be the bonanza for those who run in the tariff industry, because there'll be a lot of measurement, a lot of flooring heights, square roots and the like. So to get into such a system, I think you should try to find other partners. Our principle view is that we should abolish the tax on housing, but it is also true that we said in the spring of 1997 that if we are going to continue the system we have today, it should be that equal housing is treated equally. So we will contribute constructively, and we will also do so through this proposal, greater justice in today's system – and then no one should pay more than 30 pst. the market value of the dwelling or the value at which it is recorded in the taxes on housing. It could be the first piece, so we can get back to a bigger system – and then the government has the center party to lean on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e656	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e659	The current tax system has undoubtedly unfortunate aspects, because it does not provide a clear basis for the assessment and can therefore give relatively random results both between municipalities and within the same municipality. So that was the starting point for the Harlem Brundtland government to propose a new tax system, which has been mentioned by several of the speakers here today. As is well known, a majority of the financial committee drew up the broad lines of a new system during the examination in the Grand Duchy, with some significant deviations from the proposal put forward by the government at that time. The Ministry of Finance has assessed the specificity and impact of the majority approach, and without going into the individual circumstances, I can state that there are weaknesses in parts of the approach that were identified at the time. I see it generally desirable to bring forward a new tax system quickly, as the majority of the Committee on Finance has also stated in its examination of the matter, precisely because it is important to have a tax system that is as fair and fair as possible. However, I am asking for an understanding that 25 days have passed since this government joined, and this is a complicated matter. I therefore need to go through the matter thoroughly. I would like to consider, among other things, whether it is possible to present the matter so that it can be dealt with in the Stortinge in ours. I have noticed that the case rapporteur on behalf of the Christian People's Party has confirmed that the Christian People's Party will contribute to constructive treatment with a view to achieving a better tax system, and I see this as a positive signal. I also agree with Mr Dalheim that it should be a goal to reach the widest possible agreement on the taxation system, and we may have to disagree on the rates. Regardless of the political views on the level of this tax, it is important to have a system of which there is a fairly broad consensus and which has a reasonably broad legitimacy. It will also be the government's and my aim in the further work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e675	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e678	My question to the Minister of Finance is what to do until such a system is in place. The Council of State itself stressed that we do not have a unique system today, and that there may be differences between, for example: the municipalities which are not considered to be fair. Then the question of the Council of State is not that it could be a straightforward matter that he tells the Equations Offices to deal with what is in the Equations ABC, as a guide to the Equations Offices. The problem is that many Equations Offices do not relate to the Equations ABC at this point, where the guidance is clear: one shall not exceed 30 pst. of entry value. We have had consultations in committee on Document No. The 8-proposal, and the Landsförbund of the Houses, were there to provide evidence that, within a single municipality, there can be two very similar dwellings, which have about the same market value, where the tariff base is completely different. Is this to live with in the short term for those who are affected by it? That's my request to the Council of State -- he can instruct the Equations Offices at this point with a pen stroke. At least he cannot complain about the injustice if he does not avail himself of the possibility of instruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e685	Until a possible new system comes into place, we relate to the system that we already have, with the weaknesses that must be in it. It also underlines the need for rapid clarification in relation to a new system. When the representative Burnde asks about the basis on which the individual Equations Office should deal with, I would generally say that it is obvious that the individual Equations Office should respond to the guidance and to the instruction given by the Tax Directorate – it is generally taken into account. In this context, I do not want to specifically address the issues relating to this matter, but in general, it is obvious that it is the Tax Directorate as the executive body which, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, has a responsibility to draw up how the work is to be done at the individual Equation Office, and that of course has to be the case with the individual Equation Office. So I think we have to agree that there is a very large number of dwellings in this country, and that if there is no tariff system in general, such as the new tariff system would possibly be, it is a demanding operation. I understand that the individual Equator may have problems dealing with it. But, as I said, in general, the guidelines given by the Tax Directorate in this case are as in any other context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e694	Since the Minister of Finance wants to appear as a generalist, I'm going to try to put Børge Brande's question a little bit more generally. In fact, this applies not only to the question of the taxiing of dwellings, but also to a number of other issues where one unfortunately sees a slippage in practice around the country's Equations Offices, where it is not a harmonised practice; there are significant fluctuations depending on where one lives in the country, and depending on both the ability of the Equations Offices to get involved in matters, and the willingness of the Equators to follow them up. It is obvious that the Ministry of Finance, through the Directorate of Taxation, can do a lot to coordinate the practices of all the national Equations Offices. And then my question becomes to the Minister of Finance: does he want to take such an initiative on a general basis, so that the overall framework, laws, and leadership that the Stortinget puts on different tax issues are uniformly practiced around the country, so that you don't have to be offered to live in a nice municipality with a nice office to feel like you're getting a fair treatment? Will the Minister of Finance take such an initiative, or will he not?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e701	It is quite obvious, in my opinion, that tax authorities should strive for the most consistent practice. In this way, there is no need to take a separate initiative because it requires that it be based on a general guideline. Then, of course, we face the dilemma that in taxation we relate to a huge amount of individual objects, whether they be dwellings or objects; different conditions to be valued. It's complicated, very complicated. In many cases, it will depend on a judgement on how the determination is done. In many contexts it is also such that even if one has a general objective that there should be a consistent practice, assessments will have to be made in the individual case of what the actual value is. It makes it impossible to give a detailed central team instruction on what is the value of it and that object. To the general question from the representative Jensen: Yes, there must be a consistent practice, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e710	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2732]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e728	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2733]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e744	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2733]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e760	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2733]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e776	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2733]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e792	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2733]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e808	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2733]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e824	I asked for the word to remind you of the clarification I gave regarding this theme during the management of Innst by Odelstinget. O. No 53 March 7th. The Ministry of Finance has interpreted the tax laws of § 8-18, fourth paragraph, point (a) in such a way that group contributions between companies within the shipping tax scheme shall not have an income-absorbing effect. In the context of the Financial Committee, the management of Ot.prp. No 21 for 1999-2000 then raised the question of the changes in the shipping tax base introduced with effect from the current year of income, should lead to a change in the practice mentioned above. In a letter dated 10 February of this year to the Right-wing Magnificent Group, the Dwelling Minister of Finance wrote among others. that, in the light of the changes in the shipping tax regimes adopted, there may be material grounds for assessing the limited ability of companies to make group contributions with income-absorbing effects between companies within the shipping tax system. The Minister of Finance further wrote that he wanted to come back to this in connection with the 2001 tax package. In my clarification on 7 March, I said that as the changes that have led to such a conclusion – as the then Minister of Finance had – are due from the 2000 income year, it is reasonable that in the present assessment it is considered whether the possibility of providing group contributions with income-absorbing effects between companies within the shipping tax system should therefore be indebted from the same date – from 2001 onwards. I assume that the new Minister of Finance has also included this element in the 2001 tax package. In particular, it is important that any changes are made with effect from the 2000 income year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e839	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2733]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e853	Former Wraith representative and prisoner of war Osmund Faremo, after his death, has fulfilled one of his great visions: an information centre on the 1940-45 war years and a conflict management centre in the old Gestapo headquarters of the State Archives in Kristiansand. St. pp. No 43 for 1999-2000 deals with the transfer of the old State Archives in Kristiansand to the Archives Foundation, following a local initiative. The government has made provision for concrete cost and financing plans for the rehabilitation and operation of the building. Furthermore, if the foundation fails to achieve its establishment, it is a prerequisite that the building falls to the State. The Foundation has shown that it is capable of caring for the building in terms of operation, rehabilitation and maintenance. We would therefore recommend that the property be transferred free of charge to the foundation. The property was valued at 3.3 million in 1997. kr. Upgrading of the property is calculated at 10.4 million. kr. The defense has neither the capacity nor the economy to take over the building, nor does the foundation have the economy to buy the building. The Committee therefore unanimously recommends that the old state archive be transferred free of charge to the Foundation. In order to operate loans for refurbishment, parts of the property will be leased out. The rental income is estimated to be approximately NOK 470,000 per year. years. There is also reasonable evidence that the foundation can maintain the property and operate it accordingly, and the foundation is firmly anchored in the local environment. I would therefore recommend the unanimous position of the Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e866	Like the rapporteur, I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee that is now in favour of the Archives Foundation taking over the archives in Kristiansand. It's about our close story, the story from 1940 to 1945. I have to say that I think it would have been a tragedy if this building had been sold freely on the open market and perhaps had become a hamburger bar. It has something to do with dignity to those who took a roof. It's said that whoever doesn't know his story doesn't know his future either. We, as politicians, have often made criticisms in the media when other nations eliminate war memorials, such as that. have been tried in Germany. At least here we show, in my opinion, that we are willing to take care of such a memorial as this in Kristiansand. I think it is very nice that the aim is for young people here to learn and train for future-oriented peacemaking and conflict resolution. I think it's a good setup. As truth witnesses die out, more and more will probably ask questions about whether this was really true, and then it is important to have such monuments. I am therefore glad, as I said, that the Committee is unanimous and that the work can now be carried on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e875	The party making progress is initially sceptical about not using the country's ability to raise income in the sale of real estate. But in this case, the Progress Party welcomes a free transfer of the old State Archives in Kristiansand to the Archives Foundation – this is essential because of the history of this site during the war period 1940-45, that the Archives Foundation will use the property for an information centre on the occupation period. In addition, the party to the progress also agrees that the defence does not have the ability or the capacity to take over. Therefore, the Progress Party is positive for a free transfer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e882	9 April 1940 was the beginning of a heavy and difficult time for our nation: occupation, war, insecurity, enmity – one can mention many more words. For us who grew up after the war, this is an unreal time, and it is important that these experiences do not go into the memory book. For growing generations, it is important to get good information about history in this area too – not to cultivate, but to understand. For Kristiansand, the State Archives were part of this story. To this place there are too many people associated with evil memories, and it would be a tragedy if this had been sold to some commercial business. The initiative taken by the Archives Foundation is a good initiative: an information centre on the occupation and wartime in combination with a training centre for forward-looking peacekeeping and conflict resolution. In this way, one will be able to combine learning from a bad history and its use for education in forward-looking peacemaking. However, in order to realise this project, it is essential that the Foundation acquires the State Archives free of charge. Neither the Defence nor the Foundation has the finances to purchase the archives of State Buildings. It was therefore natural and joyful that the government of Bondevik presented St. prp. No 43 for 1999-2000 for the Stortinget, with a proposal for a decision on the transfer of the State Archives free of charge. Of course, that other parties followed this up in the Storting, we in the Christian People's Party are very pleased. As a Christian Sander, I am pleased that a building that represents too many evil and heavy memories will now become a place where new generations will learn about this past and where we will train people for future-oriented peacemaking and conflict resolution. We must not forget, but we must not cultivate, we must learn to meet futures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e895	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e912	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e928	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e944	Inger has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e960	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e976	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e991	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1007	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1023	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1039	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1055	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1071	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1087	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1104	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1120	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1136	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2736]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1152	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2736]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1165	It is then to be voted on on on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1171	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1178	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Børge Brende, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 2, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to instruct the Equation Offices to assume that complaints at today’s Equation Tariffs are to be granted by applying a maximum rate of 30 pst. of the technical value of the house or observable market price if the current Equation Tariff exceeds this.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1201	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:29 Proposal from the Børge Brende and Erna Solberg to instruct the Equation Offices to set an Equation Rate on Housing for a maximum of 30 pst. [[(1999-2000):]] of technical value or observable market value - will be sent to the Government for assessment in connection with the follow-up of Input. [[1996-97]] S. No 143
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1215	Following the decision currently taken, the proposal for a decision shall lapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1221	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 February 2000: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit legislative proposals to give employees the right to reserve themselves against membership of pension schemes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1237	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 February 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to the effect that free policies are not issued where the insured person is still a member of the pension scheme. The amount of free police duty remains as a benefit, i.e. a fully paid coverage incorporated into the scheme.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1253	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 February 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to amend the first paragraph of Section 6-3 in order to allow the establishment of a disability pension which differs in size from the old-age pension.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1269	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 February 2000: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to allow the closure of existing pension schemes, so that existing schemes continue as before for those covered by the schemes.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1285	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 February 2000: ‘The Government requests the Government to propose that employees who work in the enterprise beyond retirement age are entitled to an unpaid pension, so that the flexibility of the parties can continue to agree on combinations of pension and salary.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1301	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 February 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal to allow a three-year escalation plan for the collection of unreserved premium reserves, in accordance with the setting of the Selfig Committee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1317	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 7 March 2000: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to enable companies with income-balancing effects to make group contributions between the limits of the net financial income of the year and the income supplement for high equity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1347	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 March 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a broader documentation on proposals for amending the wording of the second and fourth paragraphs of § 3-1 of the Competition Act at a later stage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1363	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 March 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with legislative amendments which would prevent the decisions of the Competition Authority from being appealed against to the Ministry and the King.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1379	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Trond Helleland, on behalf of Mr Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget, meeting on 28 March 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the appeal procedure under the Competition Act by setting up an independent review body.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1395	There is a vote on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 28 March 2000: ‘The Government does not request the initiation of an investigation into a therapeutic reference price system for medicinal products.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1411	The vote will take place on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, representative of the People's Party, and on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstingt on 28 March 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up regulations opening the sale of non-prescription medicinal products outside the pharmacies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1427	The vote will take place on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, representative of the People's Party, and on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstingt on 28 March 2000: «The Government is asked to draw up regulations exempting wholesalers specializing in veterinary medicinal products from the full range requirement.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1443	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 28 March 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit an appropriate proposal to the Stortinget to investigate and clarify criteria for the determination of the margins of pharmacies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1457	There is a vote on the proposal by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right sent by the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 March 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue its efforts to improve general medical coverage, especially in outreach areas. The proposal for a statute shall be scrapped until further notice.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1473	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 28 March 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that patients who are not referred to the specialist by their permanent staff can use self-referral to a specialist with normal reimbursement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1489	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 28 March 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government, before the scheme enters into force, to submit the regulations of the Storting scheme.’ The right has notified that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1508	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 28 March 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to regulate patients’ patients’ rights under the Patient Rights Act.’ The right has announced that they also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1526	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 28 March 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that patients on the list of permanent staff are free to choose a new permanent staff when this is desirable and necessary for various reasons.’ The right also supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1544	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 28 March 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the choice of permanent leave for children under the care of the protection of children is made in consultation with the parents if they are not exempt from the parental right.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1560	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 28 March 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that doctors can establish practices independently of county or local boundaries with out of agreement’. The right has notified that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1578	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 28 March 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that patients who choose to stand outside the fixed medical scheme pay the same proportion as if they had been on the fixed medical records, and are able to carry the excesses on the card.’ The right also supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11.ana.ud2517e1596	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 28 March 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a working group to investigate further how to make the law applicable to Svalbard, Jan Mayen and Norwegian beeland.’ Here the Right Party and the Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
