ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e15	From 29 November to 1 December to take part in a seminar in the direction of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Genova. That application shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate from the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, is currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting at the Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox Other alternates of the county of Hordaland, Magnar Lussand, are invited to meet during the period of leave. 2nd@item: inlistbox Magnar Lussand is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of John Dale. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e103	The government’s proposal for a government budget was characterised by three main objectives. One was to strengthen our common welfare systems and expand the welfare community. The other thing was to contribute to more fair distribution. And the third was to secure Norwegian jobs and secure people's personal finances. As far as the first objective is concerned, this is why we proposed that the bets of the times be made on Norwegian municipalities, that we propose to increase the allocations to hospitals so that next year we can treat more patients than ever before, and that we propose increased appropriations to refurbish the care of cancer, to equip up the psychiatry and to buy new equipment for Norwegian hospitals. This is why we are taking a new step in the upgrading of Norwegian care for the elderly, among others. by ensuring that everyone who wants it, an offer of exclusive space, that's why we give more money to build more kindergartens and increase operating grants so that a kindergarten can also get a little cheaper, and that's why schools get more funding, among other things. to finance a historically necessary increase in the salaries of teachers. We wanted more fair distribution. Therefore, we proposed the introduction of a tax on dividends on shares, and therefore, for the second year in a row, we proposed a relief in ordinary labour income, ordinary employee income, of approximately NOK 1 billion. We wanted to secure Norwegian jobs and secure people's personal finances. We would reduce the risk of new interest rate increases. That is why we proposed a responsible budget, a budget that does not increase the pressure in the Norwegian economy. I am pleased that the central parties and the Labour Party have agreed on a budgetary agreement that ensures these three main objectives: more commitment to our common welfare arrangements, security of the welfare community and fairer distribution – that those with a lot will contribute more, and that those with little will be relieved, and that everything can be done within a responsible financial framework, so that we can reduce the risk of further increase in interest rates and secure Norwegian jobs. There's always uncertainty about how interest rates are going. Among other things, it is related to: together with relations outside the Stortinget power, relations outside our own country, interest rates in other countries and developments in the international money and currency markets. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that some of those who follow the Norwegian interest rates are closest to the government budget. Vice-Chancellor Inge Furre of Pareto said to the Newspaper on 20 November: ‘If interest rates increase next year, it is not due to the State budget. You can say that this time, politicians have done their job in terms of interest rate developments." Head of Analysis Marius Lømo in Christiania Markets says: ‘Politics surprised the market to get into port with a neutral budget.’ It is always uncertain how interest rates develop, depending on the oil price and conditions that lie outside the control of the Storting, but the analyst goes on to say: ‘We have been thinking for a while that there is a need for more interest-rate increases, but we are much less sure of that now, especially in the light of the budgetary agreement.’ So now there's an increased chance that we've stopped the increase in interest rates, and that we can see reduced interest rates as a result of the Storing adopting a responsible government budget. I believe that there is reason to give the centre parties credit for their contribution to taking responsibility, contributing to finding solutions and contributing to the adoption of a budget that enables us to secure Norwegian jobs and contribute gradually to bringing interest rates down. This is an agreement that both parties agree to. This is not the case when the 1998 and 1999 budgetary settlements were made, when the Progress Party and the Right only subsidiaryly supported the Bondevik government's draft budget and, in fact, did not fully support economic policy. Now the Centre and the Workers' Party have entered into full budgetary settlements two years in a row, the Workers' Party by fully supporting the agreement we agreed on for this year's budget, and the Centre Parties by supporting the agreement we have agreed for next year's budget. And then we immediately get the debate again about who is the winner and who is the loser. Is it the Centre or the Workers' Party that has lost or won the budget agreement? First of all, I think that is a debate that the voters are not particularly concerned about. Secondly, it is easy to see that the Centre has had an impact on important matters in the budget agreement, but it is also easy to see that the Labour Party has secured its main priorities: more commitment to our Community solutions, the development of our common welfare arrangements, fairer distribution and responsible financial frameworks that reduce the risk of increased interest rates. And it's not that there has to be some contradiction between the fact that the center has been given a pass for things that are important to the centre parties, and that the Workers' Party has ensured what was our main objective with the budget. Because it is simply that in this process of growth there is a majority of more commitment to our common welfare systems, to strengthening the local economy, to strengthening the public sector as an important part of our welfare society. It is a majority of a policy that should contribute to a fairer distribution, and it is a majority that we should have a responsible, economic framework, not abandon what we have achieved in the Norwegian economy. And that is the majority that is now in use, and that has secured a budget that is good for the country, that is good for well-being and good for those who are occupied by Norwegian jobs and by avoiding further interest increases. That is why the actual winner of this year's budget agreement is the Norwegian economy, Norwegian jobs, Norwegian enterprises and all those who are concerned that we are building up welfare in a responsible way in this country. Here is the winner, and there is reason to congratulate and pay tribute to those who have negotiated the agreement, because it was an expression of taking responsibility, of the willingness to find solutions for the country and for the benefit of all those who depend on us to adopt good government budgets. When we compare the budgetary agreement with the alternative government budgets presented by the right-wing parties here in the Stortinget, the Right and the Advance Party, we see that the distance between the main message of the budget agreement and the message contained in the alternative budget proposals of the right-wing parties is great. In fact, both right parties – the Right and the Advance Party – choose to cut precisely the areas that the Centre and the Labour Party have chosen to prioritise through two budgetary conciliations two consecutive years. You cut in terms of appropriations for the municipalities, you cut in terms of districts, you cut in terms of aid to the poorest part of the world. This is done to finance tax relief for those who have the most in the past – contributing to increased differences, not minor differences. One area where we see it is the sickness pay scheme. There, both the Progress Party and the Right cut are proposed, which is far more dramatic than the proposals that are now being dealt with in the follow-up to the Sandman Committee. The progress party proposes two karendays, then 80 pst. sick pay for the remainder of the absence period. The right-hand side suggests 50 pst. the first three days of performance, then 90 pst. It's cold numbers, but it's about people's everyday lives, how sick people should feel in our country. If we, for example, based on the average absence of a female industrial worker, the proposals of the Advance Party mean that she will have her income reduced by an average of NOK 7 700 per year. years. The right-hand proposal amounts to a reduction of DKK 5500. If you are so unhappy to be sick for an entire year – and there are many people who are: cancer, road damage and others with severe suffering – the proposals of the Progress Party involve a loss of almost $50,000 per year. year – SEK 49 000. The right-hand proposal involves NOK 25 000 in lost income for sick people in Norway. There are unsocial cuts in important common welfare schemes. And it says a little bit about how far the distance is now between the right hand parts and the arrangement found at the intersection between the center and the Workers' Party, because it's this type of cut that finances the tax breaks of the right hand parties, and that's in our opinion unsocial cut. We are pleased that there is a majority in a budget that calls for our common welfare arrangements and builds them on, that contributes to fair distribution, and that does so within a responsible financial framework, and we are pleased that the Centre and the Workers' Party have just applied that majority to ensure such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e142	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e145	The Prime Minister made a strong contribution to the current budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, that it was the second year in a row that these four parties have entered into an overall agreement, and where there are no so-called primary budgets, except for the Government's proposal. The Prime Minister has also expressed in other contexts that he sees it appropriate that the country should gradually be given a majority government, and he has, on behalf of the Workers' Party, opened up to participate in such a majority government. So far, the Prime Minister has said that this is not possible because the Centre has said that they should be an independent government option. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if it is such that, for the Labour Party, it would now seem appropriate to initiate discussions between these parties – which are thus fully united on economic policy – with a view to forming such a majority rule. Is it only the negative attitude of the centre parties that is the reason why we did not take the natural step and initiate negotiations to find a basis for a majority rule of the Labour Party and the three centre parties? In other words, is it the responsibility for such follow-up discussions not to be initiated, exclusively at the centre, at the three centre parties? Does he not think it would be natural, when he oozes out of willingness to cooperate with these parties, to invite discussions to form a majority government that he himself emphasizes the country would have good of, to get predictable governance? What is it that the Prime Minister does not take the necessary initiatives to try to contribute to a majority government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e154	I am pleased that for the second year in a row, the central parties and the Labour Party have agreed on a comprehensive budgetary agreement, where we take responsibility for the Norwegian economy and take responsibility for expanding our common welfare arrangements and not least for financing it to grant more money for many good purposes. It's been two and a half years since the Workers' Party made it clear that we were also open to start more committed cooperation, also in government with parties in the center. We have full respect for the fact that the centre parties have made it clear that they do not want to discuss such cooperation at least during the current magnificence period, but want to be an independent government option. We respect that and feel that there is no basis now to move forward with the initiatives of the Workers' Party, not least because, in our opinion, the Workers' Party has an excellent alternative to government cooperation with the Centre Parties, and that is to continue in government alone. Minority worker party government is something we've had for many years, it's actually been the case with all the labor party governments since 1961, and of course the Labour Party is also prepared to continue in a purely minority worker party government after the next big shot. The new thing is that we have opened up that we can also look at and evaluate an alternative where we have committed cooperation with one or more parties in the centre to give the country a majority government. We believe it is important that parties are willing to cooperate despite differences, because it is important that the country is governed, given the most predictable governance possible, and therefore parties that stand for slightly different policies must be willing to cooperate. And we believe that the Workers' Party and Centre have a lot in common and can therefore provide the basis for good governance of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e161	I agree with the Prime Minister that it has become a good budget agreement, but it is a little striking how strongly the speakers of the Workers' Party stress this, knowing how much this agreement has changed on the Labour Party Government's budget proposal. It must have meant that it's been pretty bad, and it was actually up to several points, among other things. in the treatment of non-governmental organisations as many perceived as a blow to the face rather than an encouragement to the voluntary work being done. Now the Prime Minister has said that he is very strong for such voluntary work, and then we hope it will also be expressed when the Government will present an assessment of the impact of the VAT reform on this sector. In his first year as a politician, the Prime Minister was particularly well-known for his strong environmental exposure. It has faded, and he is now running a government that has come into conflict with the entire environmental movement, not least because of its drive to build gaseous power plants. Following the collapse of the Hague climate conference, it is all the more dangerous to run this line – when no agreement has been reached on an international agreement that could capture some of the pollution that these gas plants will create. In recent years, Stoltenberg has shown a particular positive business profile. Then it was all the more surprising that Stoltenberg led a government that put forward perhaps the most hostile budget proposals any government has presented – to the extent that business leaders now say they miss Gro as the leader of a labor party government – with a business cycle tax that was actually an increase in the employer’s tax, electricity taxes on industry, cutting split model and stock discounts, particularly affecting small and medium-sized enterprises. So my question to the Prime Minister is, is there such a business profile he wants to stand for? Is it such a business policy that the Workers' Party wants to pursue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e172	I believe that the Government's original draft government budget is better than the budget agreement that has now been concluded. However, I believe that the budgetary agreement that has now been concluded gives the country a good budget, and that is because the starting point was so excellent that even adjustments to it still have a good budget. If it's changed a lot or not, it's very dependent on how you're raining, and I really don't know how interesting that exercise is. With regard to the expenditure side of the budget, what we grant for different purposes, we have changed to about NOK 1.5 billion. It is a perfectly normal adjustment to the expenditure side of the budget and is within a framework that is obviously acceptable to the Government, especially because each and every penny of increased appropriations for good ends has been covered by reductions in other appropriations and to some extent also increased revenue. Then it is completely unproblematic for us to make the adjustments on the cost side that have been made. When it comes to the income side, it's like adding a little bit of different things. You sum things up over two years and you compare them with what you've done in the past for a year. We are talking here about changes both in 2001 and 2002 in terms of the investment tax. The second thing we do is we sum up things about the VAT reform. It was not the Workers' Party's proposal that we should have halved matmoms, funded by 1 pst. increasing the general rate of VAT, but that means going zero in relation to the state budget, and that's why we could also accept it. Then the centre parties were given an advantage in order to remove the general business cycle charge, which we thought was a rigorous tool to dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy. It has been replaced by a severe tightening in what is called the depreciation rules for Norwegian enterprises, a specific short-term industrial building tax and some increased taxes. We were willing to accept the three tax increases as compensation for the cyclical tax, but I still believe that the cyclical tax had been a cleaner and cleaner tool to mitigate the pressure in the Norwegian economy. However, it is crucial that the centre parties and the Workers' Party take responsibility for dampening the pressure, so that we keep costs and interest rates down. It is not least important for Norwegian enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e183	Without a doubt, I fully agree with Mr Bondevik on his concern about the employment profile of the Workers' Party – there were very strong increases the Workers' Party proposed. It is a pity, therefore, that the conciliation continues to bring about a significant deterioration in business life compared with the rules in force in the current year, and it is a pity that the burden is passed on to individuals instead of trying to limit government expenditure. My question to the Prime Minister goes along the same lines. In the revised national budget, the government in our country said some sensible things, among other things. the following: «The ability to increase tax revenue is limited in the coming years. The level of taxation in Norway is already high compared with other countries.’ In addition, the Government wrote: ‘Like that, the increasing internationalisation makes it difficult for Norway to have significantly higher taxes on capital and labour income than our neighbouring countries.’ This means that the Government understood that Norway could not be a fiscally different country — they understood that in theory. But then they start with the highest increases in time. So the question is, what really happened? Yes, what has happened other than the rebellion in the Workers' Party? The Prime Minister felt the need to show that he was now a real social democrat, so he made the highest tax increases in human memory. And as if this isn't bad enough: this conciliation pushes a burden of 10 billion dollars into 2002 that has to be covered, while one of the conciliators, the Christian People's Party, says they expect relief for individuals. So if we're going to have a zero sum game in 2002, we're going to have significant tax increases. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: When will he in practice take the consequences of his theoretical understanding that Norway cannot be a fiscally different country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e202	I don't think there's any comfort to the representative Petersen, but I've always been a full-fledged social democrat and still is. When it comes to the issue of taxes, I think we have to assume that the Norwegian economy is now under pressure. That means that there are high interest rates, that means that we have a price and cost increase that is clearly higher than our neighboring countries, that means that we have loans from banks that are stronger than in many years, and that means that we have seen a growth in private consumption and in housing prices that have been stronger than in many years. Then there is a need to brake. And we can either slow down by just tightening up public spending, allocating funds to good and important welfare schemes, or we can say that we're doing a combination of, on the one hand, tightening something up in relation to the public expenditures of our common welfare schemes, and, on the other, tightening something even into the private part of the economy. We have chosen some combination, because we believe that the Norwegian economy is so strong and the private consumption so high that you can withstand some of the slowdown in the private part of the economy. That is why we have proposed the tax measures we have taken. And that's for Norwegian companies, because the alternative would be to go to the oil fund and get the money and ask for even stronger interest rate increases, even stronger price increases, which would have been really serious for Norwegian companies. It would have been to repeat the mistakes you made, for example. In the 1980s, during the Willoch government, the Norwegian economy was put under control because it was not able to tighten up in time. We take responsibility for tightening up and getting praise from many professional economists just for it, but we also use the income side of the budget. In this respect, as far as the concerns of the individual are concerned, I would say that all the sick people in Norway are also individuals. And excluding a sick person who is sick for one year because of cancer or other serious diseases, NOK 25 000 – for an average employee – is not showing respect for individuals, it is raging important welfare schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e211	It is interesting to listen to the Prime Minister's description of the budgetary agreement and the satisfaction he gives. Of course, we appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister is also satisfied with the agreement that has been reached. However, it is a fact that with regard to the VAT reform, major changes have been made to the approach proposed by the Government. The general rate of VAT has been increased by 1 p.m., the food tax has been halved, the Stortinget has now said no to VAT on travel and passenger transport. In addition, the economic cost proposed by the Government has been removed from the budget. There is an agreement to remove the investment levy and to remove the split model from the tax package to be submitted until next year. So here we are talking about historical upheavals in a single budget. And the satisfaction expressed by the Prime Minister stands in stark contrast to what the former Prime Minister of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, said in 1997, when he used the expression "feeling" about the increase of the minimum pension by NOK 1 000 per month. Repeatedly, Thorbjørn Jagland said at that time – in an attempt to expound his 36.9 p.m. – that he could not take responsibility for the country’s economy with such an opposition. This is more like an observation in relation to the satisfaction that is now expressed in connection with historical upheavals in a budget. What I would like to ask the Prime Minister, however, is what he was talking about that goes on the sick pay system. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that these are terrible proposals that have been promoted by both the Right and the Progressive Party. I have believed that we have agreed to call about the sickness pay scheme. But I heard that the Prime Minister now said in his speech that the proposals for changes proposed by the Right and the Advance Party in this budget are far more dramatic than what is now being dealt with in the follow-up to the Sandman Committee. Does this mean that the Government intends to make changes to the sickness pay scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e220	It is quite right, as Mr Enoxen says, that I am very pleased with the budget agreement. Otherwise we would not have recommended it either. It was demanding negotiations, because we made strict demands that the main device had to be put in place in relation to the responsible framework, focusing on our common welfare arrangements, fair distribution, including the share tax. In return, the centre was able to pass on important demands from the centre, e.g.: important changes in VAT reform. It is quite obvious that there is an area in which the centre, and not least the centre party, was able to take advantage of an old requirement for which they had not previously been implemented and which was not the original proposal of the Workers' Party, namely to halve the food tax, but to finance it through an increase of one percentage point in the overall VAT rate. It means a lot cheaper food, and then it means a little bit higher price for all the other goods. And that's okay for us, but it wasn't our original proposal. It is true that it involves quite a few billions in moving, but it goes into zero, and it is quite crucial in relation to the framework of the total state budget. So it's also true that we got replaced by part of our tax measures. I maintain that the general business cycle tax is better than the measures that have now been taken to tighten down the depreciation rules for the companies, with a special investment charge for the construction industry and for some other charges. But all in all, we believe that there are acceptable changes, even though our proposals were basically the best. The crucial thing is to take responsibility for covering increased expenditure on the state budget, and we are very pleased with that. As far as the Sandman Committee is concerned, my point was that the proposals that the Right and the Advance Party are promoting represent a violation of the whole of the thinking that lies in the Sandman Committee, namely to try to reach agreement and try to bring about adjustments that do not go dramatically beyond workers' rights. The proposals of the Right and Advance Party are, in any case, completely unacceptable, but there is also an additional problem that they come in the middle of the Sandman Committee setting process. It is now at the hearing, and we will come to our conclusions after the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e230	This collection in the centre leads to some sort of polarization in Norwegian policy. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that, on the one hand, there is a very clear right profile on both the Right and the Advance Party in the distribution policy, but on the other hand, it is now that there is one party that places the strengthening of the common good, more equitable distribution and a proper environmental conversion consistently on the agenda. And the question for the future is, Who is going to affect the center the most? This state budget is made in a kind of petrol rust or propensity party, with the Progress Party at the time of the high polls – we can hope that it will change, and that's enough – but that means that the Workers' Party had already initially created a budget that spent $2.50 billion on reducing petrol prices instead of doing something about public transport, and they've got hallelujar up from the centre parties on that matter. This means, therefore, that in the countries of potential, one goes counter to what is needed in environmental policy, both in the transport sector and in the case of any gas power plant in Forests. Instead, if you had used the 2.5 billion to bet on the fact that there was a real alternative to the private car in central strokes, you could reverse the bad environmental development. Now climate negotiations in The Hague have collapsed. I think people are starting to wonder if there might be no bigger things going on in this world than a penny on the gas price, when there are forest fire warnings in North Norway in November, when salmon eggs are drying out in the West in November, and when it rains on the East and South in November. I think that has given people something to think about. When will the Government and the Labour Party be committed to a reform of environmental policy that takes the challenges of the future seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e239	The State budget also contains important measures in relation to environmental investment, including: by focusing significantly more on research, the development of new technologies, among others. to reduce CO2 emissions from domestic use of gas and then for power generation. I am absolutely sure that sooner or later we will get to technology that makes it possible to use gas in Norway in an environmentally friendly way with little or no emissions of CO2. And in any case, if gas power plants are built in Norway, they will be integrated into our international climate commitments, be consistent with the Kyoto agreement and thus contribute to reducing total greenhouse gas emissions. They don't want to increase total emissions. Either the emissions have to go down in Norway, or they have to go down in our neighbouring countries through the mechanisms provided for in the Kyoto Agreement, and we now have to make every effort to ensure that there is international agreement on the follow-up, through the follow-up to the meeting as beached in The Hague this weekend. Among other things, we have We also announced that we would send a big message to spring on the follow-up to the measures announced to reduce and limit Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, including: in relation to the creation of a national emissions system, which we believe is an effective and good tool for reducing emissions and for making it profitable to develop new and more environmentally friendly technologies. So there are measures that have come into the state budget, and there will be further action gradually. As far as the petrol price is concerned, it is true that the charges were reduced because the increase in the crude oil price led to an increase in unreasonably high petrol prices in Norway after our assessment. Therefore, those charges were slightly adjusted. But it's still true that we have among the world's highest petrol prices, so I don't think there should be any big problem with those who drive in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e251	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e254	The Prime Minister said again that the Government is concerned about the price and cost growth in Norway – I assume that the price increase in both businesses and ordinary people is the cost increase in business. And he said that he was also anxious about the high level of interest rates that are usually justified by the central bank precisely in terms of price and cost growth. We in the Progress Party agree with the Prime Minister in this. But instead of as the Government and the budgetary conciliation to exacerbate the situation, we are doing something to improve it. Of course, for non-imported prices in Norway, the development of wage developments and the development of taxes and taxes are crucial. And the remarkable thing is that the Prime Minister just said that when the crude oil price went up, you could put down the fuel tax something so that it wouldn't be too unreasonable. Why, then, are the other parties not in the agreement able to see that in terms of price developments in Norway, the Storting can actually do something about it in terms of reducing taxes? If you're worried about the rise in prices, the situation will improve if you increase your VAT by 1 pst.? Of course not! Does it improve the situation that you do not do anything about the fees, as you promised in the past? Of course not! What you can do about prices is get tax reductions that have a direct effect on price formation. The calculations made by the Statistical Central Bureau for our group also show that the government's approach to economic policy would result in a price increase of about 2.9 p.p. next year, while the Progress Party option, which is based on tax relief, would lead to a price reduction of 2.1 p.p. So there's a difference between the Government and the Advance Party of nearly 5 pst. in the favour of the Progress Party in the development of prices. That means that most people would get better purchasing power, get more for their income when buying goods and services. It looks at the settlement partners, the Workers' Party and the Center Parties, negatively. We do not understand that in the Advance Party. We have a little bit of a simple belief that we're in this room to do things that make it better for ordinary people, for most people in this country, also financially. And a price drop, a price difference in our favor of 5 pst., would make most people better advised. No changes have been made, for example: as a result of the increase in the value added tax of the weakest, perhaps especially the minimum pensioners. They will not be compensated for the price increase directly resulting from the agreement. That's the price. So through our arrangement, we've achieved a much better price development than the government and the settlement parties. With regard to the cost growth of enterprises, which is also feared, one should think, when the Prime Minister is so concerned about it, that the government decided to do something to lower the cost growth of businesses in this country. Instead, the government proposed a concrete one and a half percent increase in all wage payments, i.e. an additional cost increase for businesses. There is really nothing that has been proposed by the Government that reduces the cost growth, which the Prime Minister will be worried about later. It is precisely to do something about the costs that should then be necessary. It is clear that I should also accept that there is an improvement in increased expenditure in the level of taxation in terms of the removal or reduction of depreciation rates, in relation to the direct effect that would have been on the cost side, as proposed by the Government. But I would argue that the government's argument and the government's practical policy have nothing to do with each other. On the contrary, therefore, the expressed concern about the increase in costs is reflected in proposals that are exacerbating cost growth. And then the prime minister says he's also worried about the effect on interest rates. He repeats today what he probably also said as the conciliator of last year's Bondevik government, that it is important to keep interest rates down for the sake of the many who have loans. So the result of what he and the government of Bondevik did last year is four interest increases in the course of the year. Now interest rates are getting so high that it is likely that it will not go any higher now. But he has demonstrated at least in the past that the main thrust of the economic thinking behind the Government and the settlement partners leads to interest rate growth rather than stabilisation or decline. And we know that all the interest rate increases in recent times are justified by the price and cost increases. So, as I have already pointed out, the government has been pursuing a policy that has just increased prices and increased costs. If you're going to get a drop in interest rates, you're going to have to bring down the prices and the cost growth. It is in the budget of the Progress Party that both price and cost growth declines because we provide significant tax relief. And then the Prime Minister says over and over again that we must not use the enormous surplus that the state has in its economy, for the benefit of businesses and the Norwegian people. Here we are in the Progress Party on full collision course with the conciliators. When the state gets unexpected extraordinary revenues, we think the challenge should be: how can this flow to the Norwegian people, most people, so that they get a better everyday life, of course, without any way destroying the Norwegian economy? We've created a balanced budget. We've clearly used some of these revenues, but it's for the benefit of the population. I wish the Government and the settlement parties too could start to look at the challenge facing Norwegian society. When we get a much better economy, how can we organise this for the benefit of the people? The government is also concerned about those who are ill but are opposed to receiving treatment capacity abroad, so that hospitals can make full use of the capacity they could otherwise have used with additional funds. It must be better for sick people to receive the necessary treatment, to have the necessary operations, so that they can return to work instead of getting sick. And we've said that if that was the way the Prime Minister and the Government Party and the settlement partners claim that no more money can be spent in the Norwegian economy, we should at least eventually be able to agree to buy more goods and services abroad, for the benefit of most people and the development of the Norwegian society and the services for which public funding is to be provided. We are pleased that all parties, except the Workers' Party, mainly joined this idea through the adoption of NOK 1 billion to purchase processing capacity abroad. Then they've opened up to the principle. Then we hope that in later rounds we may be able to agree that we can purchase equipment for our research institutes, ICT equipment for our schools, cars for the police, helicopters for our rescue services and for the police, the necessary defense equipment and equipment for our hospitals, so that the potentially limited crew resources can work with top modern equipment instead of partly outdated equipment. We think it's strange that the government and the settlement parties act as if Norway has financial difficulties instead of just seeing that our good economy can be used to make most people in this country feel better. We have put forward such a budget in the Progress Party, and it is a shame that we do not get a majority in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e285	When the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen's economic theories are to be reflected in a proposal for a State budget, there are a number of areas of shortage. One of the main messages from the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen is that we have good advice. That is why the Advance Party is also rusty, and in its financial arrangement for next year, they promise no less than DKK 40 billion in tax relief. What Carl I. Hagen in his post a moment ago did not say a single word about how this is to be paid. Who's going to be in and pay this bill? Not one word told the representative Hagen that this would be paid, among other things. through large cuts in the sick pay scheme, through cuts in district measures, through cuts in agricultural aid, through cuts in aid. As has been said, the comments of the representative Hagen are often based on the fact that we are so rich, so why not let the people get tax breaks. But the representative Hagen is also out on behalf of people other than the state. The Progress Party is also very generous on behalf of the municipalities, because the tax commitments made by the Progress Party in its financial arrangement are in fact to promise a large part of the municipalities' revenues, revenues to be used for health and care, for a better care of the elderly, of which the Progress Party is very concerned. The promises made by the Progress Party concerning taxes involve, as far as possible, a loss of tax, a loss of income, for Norwegian municipalities of NOK 6 billion. 6 billion kroner of the money the municipalities will spend on health care and care for the elderly, Carl I. Hagen has promised away. And it is not possible to see in the financial position that the Progress Party has in any way compensated for this; neither by changing the taxpayer nor by any other means does they ensure that the municipalities get these revenues back. So it might be interesting to hear how the representative Hagen explains this loss of income in the municipalities. How, then, are municipalities supposed to finance better health and better care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e298	I wish the Workers' Party could decide. Either they get to criticize us because we cut too much, and cutters and cutters and cutters, or they get to criticize us for being rusty with the use of oil money. But now they're doing both of them, and there's nothing special about it. It is true that we want a dramatic change in agricultural policy. Why, when there is a shortage of labour, are we going to use too many people in that sector? We follow up on what the government itself says, we have to use the resources, the people, where they are needed, and we have excessive employment in agriculture. Everyone knows that. Even the Center Party admits that we could produce as much food with a third of the annual work as we do today. In the case of municipalities and the municipal economy in general, we strengthen the municipal sector by up to NOK 6 billion, because the municipalities also have expenditure on purchasing goods and services. The central statistical agency has calculated that the prices will be 5 pst. lower in relation to the Government’s proposals. Then the municipality gets more for the money. The same applies to developments in the cost of future salary settlements. Our tax relief means that they don't get that high, but it affects the individual. So we've strengthened the municipal sector as such. So I honestly don't understand the Labour Party's criticism. Don't they see this context, that when prices go down, you get more in the municipalities as well? All of this is in the setting. In addition, the Labour Party knows that the Progress Party has made many proposals that the care of the elderly, the health services and the education sector should be financed directly from the State after an effort-based funding plan – which we have received in the hospitals in part. We're strengthening the municipalities' economy, instead of what the Workers' Party knows they're telling fairy tales about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e309	There would be a bit of a bit of ritual over the line changes in the financial debate after contributions from the Progress Party. It's due to two main actions where the Progress Party differs from all other parties. Firstly, they can afford to spend a lot more of our oil money for various purposes that in themselves are good and useful and desirable. But what the Hagen and the Progress Party don't say is that this over-exploitation of oil money of 18 billion dollars will turn out in relation to interest and must be paid by the low-income groups, the middle-income groups, the business community and others who have debt and depend on a favourable credit market. The second is that the Progress Party to obtain the necessary tax-free cutters in important areas such as business, in relation to aid, to districts and the environment. I have reason to believe that the Progress Party, as one of the largest parties in the country – in fact the largest in any polls – has had a serious basis for the cuts they make. But I have to say that I was startled yesterday when, in a reply to the Minister for Development, the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, explained why the Progress Party can cut so significantly in aid. She said the following: ‘... more and more reports, written by people who have gone into and examined the situation’...’shows that the way in which assistance is mainly provided by the Norwegian side does not work.’ This is wrong. On the contrary, reports from both the World Bank and the OECD have shown that the effect of Norwegian aid is in fact a top priority and has contributed to good development in the countries receiving assistance. I would encourage Carl I. Hagen to put on the table the reports documenting Siv Jensen's claim. Is it perhaps the old Research Institute of the Progress Party that has produced such reports?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e325	Mr. Steensnæs says there's something ritual about the line changes after the proponents of the Progress Party – or maybe it just applied to me, I didn't get any clarity on that. But in this case it must be due to those who ask questions. They're the ones asking questions in a line change, which in case you're talking about, not the one who's holding a main post. So then it says a little bit about the other parties and nothing special about us. So I'd like to stress that you're talking like we're using the oil wealth. The government itself has said in the national budget that if you count on 4 pst. Return, then you have NOK 73 billion at your disposal. We've spent much less than NOK 73 billion. We have also strengthened the oil wealth and significantly strengthened the transfers to the oil fund. But unlike the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, we believe that the Norwegian people will benefit from our good economy. With the thinking and the theories that come from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, you'll never ever use any of these huge incomes that we think belong to most people, not just the politicians. All of the arguments you're using right now, of course you'll be able to use in the future as well. I have faced the challenge many times: what circumstances exist in order for the Norwegian people to enjoy more well that we get a lot of income? Otherwise Steensnæs said a lot of things are wrong. He even said that we had made the situation worse for business – when we have lowered costs and lowered prices for business and went in for a diesel price and a petrol price of between NOK 6.50 and NOK 7! We've given business relief and improvement in all areas. In terms of the other things, we've answered them many, many times before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e336	Carl I. Hagen still defends his 40 billion kroner in tax reliefs and the use of 19 billion extras of oil money that the increased price increase this leads to, just solved by cutting the fees. The problem is that Hagen believes that it is possible to bring inflation down permanently by reducing some charges. That's where he's actually wrong. But explaining this to Hagen is a big task. Or as an editor wrote, some simple problem is not to explain why the apples fall to the ground, to people who think that gravity works upwards. Hagen can, of course, get a small price drop through its tax cuts - a shift, as it is called in Hagen’s hated economic language. If all the charges are cut by 10 pst., prices will fall to a lower level, but inflation, the price rise, will continue and gradually increase. Level and slope are two different things. So vriot is it-- and so simple. But that's not my main point now. On the other hand, I am also concerned that the Progress Party, even in a situation where they will spend much more of the oil money, will still cut close to half a billion kroner in the appropriations for education and research. My question to the representative Hagen is therefore: does he agree with me when I say that the 2001 budget of the Progress Party shows that education and research are a low priority area for the Progress Party when you do not even want to maintain the government's thin framework for education and research, while adding to the budget in the billions class? Carl I. Hagen has claimed that there are too many teachers in primary school, and he wants to go back to old school with one teacher at the catheter. Is it perhaps to follow up this play to Hagen that the Progress Party is now cutting half a billion dollars in the school and education budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e353	I forgot an answer to Mr. Steensneeze, who also thought there was a risk of an increase in interest rates with our budget. I would again challenge someone to explain how to expect an increase in interest rate when we reduce cost growth and price growth relatively dramatically. After all that has been said earlier, we should expect a decrease in interest rates. So Børge Brende says that the Chairman of the Advance Party still defends NOK 40 billion in tax relief. Did Mr. Brende think that I should not defend the draft budget that we presented a few days ago? Of course I'm defending it – because it's right. And of course I defend using more of the oil revenues, because we have the basic idea that these belong initially to the people of this country, and that people should get better services and better economics. There's a fundamental difference. We see this as money belonging to the population, while others seem to see it as money that should belong to the politicians and bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance. I'll take it with a shattering calm if there's to be a debate where most people listen. It would have been a pleasure to hear Børge Burnde explain to ordinary people in the street why prices should increase when you set charges, because that's what he said. He said that increased prices are due to reduced taxes and taxes. That debate will be festive! Can Børge Brende and others who stand for this tell us: What mechanism in the economy is that that makes the prices go up when you set the charges down? And what are the mechanisms that make the costs of businesses go up when you cut taxes? No one's really been close to even trying to explain it to most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e362	It could perhaps be appropriate to remind both the representative Carl I. Hagen and others that the SSB, in response to the assessments of the draft budget of the Progress Party, found it necessary to clarify that realism has not been assessed in the assumptions of the analyses carried out. To confuse me a little bit in the line change between Carl I. Hagen and Hill-Marta Solberg instead: it's not right that the Progress Party strengthens the municipal economy. If you ignore the effects of personal tax relief, the claim is quite correct. The level of the municipal economy is maintained if the effects of personal tax relief are disregarded. Taking this into account and the loss of income in the municipal sector as a result of a reduction in taxes and charges by NOK 40 billion, Hill-Marta Solberg’s claim is correct: the municipalities will lose approximately. $6 billion. So Carl I. Hagen claims that this will lead to increased freedom of action because of lower costs and lower wage increases and anything that will result from reduced taxes and taxes. Yes, but I've heard Carl I. Hagen said that now the workers have the negotiating power. We have a tight labour market with a strong demand for labour. Then employees must use the negotiating power they have to raise their wages, and for once it is the workers who are in such a negotiating position. Lower taxes and taxes will lead to increased consumption and the need for new employees in municipalities. If you get more frames, as the Progress Party suggests, there will be room to hire more, and thus even more pay demands, if you follow the proposals of Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party, and thus increase costs over a long period of time. It is precisely this realism in the premise of Carl I. Hagen's proposal as the SSB, among others. found it necessary to make reservations. In the seconds left, yesterday we were in a line shift into the situation in the municipality of Us, and I would like to repeat my question from yesterday, because the proposal to sell assets to finance operations came faster than I had imagined. [[The President clubs.]] Today, the Progress Party in Us is proposing to sell two schools to finance South Africa's pensioners. Is that how the Progress Party intends to pursue its policy ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e375	The President must ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e378	I think it would be natural for the budget negotiations to be conducted in the municipality of Os. If we were to start a budgetary debate on the economy of the municipality of Os in Stortinget, perhaps we could take an opportunity where the rapporteur in Os met as a representative. But I can say something in general about property management and property use. We cannot understand that municipalities are going to have large amounts of interest and debt repayments when they are sitting on large assets that do not provide sufficient returns. It must then be better from time to time to sell properties and assets and shares that yield poor returns, so that you can pay off your debt and thereby reduce the fixed costs of the local government budgets in terms of interest and instalments. There is a reasonable use of a wealth, instead of the unreasonable one, where the municipality's funds have been placed passively without any special returns. We have a completely different starting point than the Center Party. We think that what the public stands for and owns really belongs to the population. That's what the Prime Minister said earlier – he said Statoil belongs to the people. He actually once also said, I think, that Telenor belongs to the people. Nevertheless, he will sell Telenor to those who are already the real owners. He could rather distribute some of the shares to the real owners, instead of demanding payment twice. We don't have, like, Mr. Enoxen later to believe – or at least to imply someone – touched on municipal tax revenue. We haven't touched them at all. We have a net strengthening of the municipal sector, as I have mentioned, according to overall assessments. There are no assumptions that the Statistical Central Agency needs to assess, in our tax proposals. We have openly admitted that we have financed part of this using oil revenues. But we still strengthen the oil fund significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e389	Carl I. Hagen has a favorite expression when he's talking about economics. He's talking about 'for the good of the population', which probably implicitly means that as we have a different view, we spend the money for the good of someone else. It is with shame to report hardly so that all of us are most concerned about either ourselves or the bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance, as Hagen suggests. But when Hagen is so sloppy about spending money ‘for the benefit of the population’, he may in a slightly more transparent way remove some of the major uncertainties that others are left with in spending money for the benefit of the population. Is it e.g. so that it is the annual profits in the oil sector that will determine the welfare level of Norwegian society, or is it such that, in a holistic and long-term economy, we will secure all the well-being we have? Is it so that Hagen can gradually answer the tax question that has now been asked by several speakers? Many might suggest that by not correcting the taxpayer in the municipalities, the tax arrangements of the Progress Party mean that the municipal economy is weakened by NOK 6 billion. Here it is not useful to give a kind of dynamic view that the overall economic policy of the Progress Party should lead to a price reduction, so that municipalities serve this on a different scale. Here are the tax rules that will determine what municipalities will get from the economy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e394	I'll try again and hope that Tom Thoresen this time listens to it. Of course, the tax changes we have proposed will also affect wage developments. I assume that Tom Thoresen is well-known that during the major tariff negotiations the purchasing power is the tone-setting theme. Clearly, when it comes to calculating how to proceed with claims, the level of taxation, which determines how much is netly paid, will be an important factor in purchasing power development. Our proposal means strengthening the situation for businesses in the sense that, when there is a lower level of taxation, the same purchasing power development can be achieved with lower wage requirements. As a result, there is an impact on cost growth and prices. The same applies to the fees. It also deals with the payroll and impact there for businesses. So to the local economy: we want to maintain that the calculations available in detail in the setting show that when the cost growth of large employers decreases as a result of our tax proposals, and the prices decline as a result of the tax proposals for the municipalities, the municipalities get an increase in purchasing power for the same crowns as they had in the past. Here, the effects are so great that we can make some reductions in the gross transfers to the municipalities so that at the same time they come out net in total better. Then it's right that we claim that our policies are more for the benefit of the population and people more than the rest of the parties. I'm not going to doubt that that's what others might also want, but it just doesn't seem like that in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e405	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e408	The Prime Minister says we have a good budget agreement. I can agree with that. But this is a budgetary settlement where we've moved historically a lot. On the basis of the positive review of the budgetary agreement both from representatives in the trade union movement and from the Workers' Party, the Labour Party did not seem to be particularly good at the government's proposal. It has been a demanding task to change so much in the budget that it got a good profile. But when we achieved this, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left found that we could take responsibility for next year's budget. The centre parties have a tradition of taking responsibility – for the good of the country. Of course, as the Workers' Party did the first two years of this ageing period, we could have sat on the sideline and refused to contribute. That's how we could've been heading towards a government crisis. But we're not dealing with a budget with such a starting point. A government crisis now, and with the budgetary options put forward by the Right and the Advance Party, could also have created a rather difficult, not to say chaotic, situation towards Christmas. Now we get a budget that, according to economic experts, also increases the chances that there won't be any new interest rate increases. We need a new government. But it should preferably come as a result of a choice where the voters have been told. In this perspective, budgetary negotiations are also interesting: we have further strengthened the relationship between the centre parties. We've shown once again the ability to unite, even though in some cases we have different views initially. Some have drawn the hasty conclusion from the budgetary agreement that this would facilitate government cooperation between the Labour Party and one or more centre parties. But this is a wonderful way of thinking. If you are going to pursue this kind of thinking, it will mean that a large number of people each harvest have adopted a budget with a sitting minority government, thus laying the basis for a new government constellation. This is going to be pretty pointless. In short, the new budget regulations of the Grand Duchy mean that a majority must be set up each harvest behind the main lines of the budget. But we only have minority government options. This means in clear terms that some of these minority options need to cooperate on the budget in order for the Storting to be able to do the job of adopting next year's budget at all. Thus, of course, the options as government alternatives do not cease. We saw that, for example. in the context of the 1996 budgetary agreement between the Centre and the then Workers' Party Government, since the Centre nevertheless took over the government power from the precisely Harvested Workers' Party in 1997. And we saw that in the budget conciliation last autumn, where the Workers' Party nevertheless took over the government power from its settlement partner in March this year. We have now achieved a budgetary compromise between two of the focus points of Norwegian policy. Center is just as full a real and independent government option. We therefore see no reason to speculate in other cooperative constellations. And then we're going to go through a choice, and the result of this is going to determine which government there's a basis for. In fact, as measured in dollars, the distance between the centre and the Workers' Party this year has been greater than for a long time. That shows where we moved for $22 billion. If we had got the budget exactly as we would, we would have moved on even more. Looking back at this expansion period, the central parties have twice entered into budgetary settlements with the Right and the Advance Party, and twice with the Workers' Party. This marks the independence of the centre, and it also expresses our position in the centre of economic policy. The Prime Minister and others from the Workers' Party are once again trying to draw a simplified picture of a bipartite in economic policy, with the centre and the Workers' Party on one side and the right parties on the other. But this doesn't match reality. The draft budget of the Labour Party Government had serious weaknesses which are not at all consistent with the economic policies of the Centre Parties. Let me just mention: The government's draft budget was very negative for enterprises and jobs, including the following: due to the increased employer’s fee – as the government called short-term electricity tax – an electricity tax for industry, a tightening of the split model, etc. This has now been refuted by the central parties in the budgetary agreement and has also provided for decisions to abolish the investment levy. The temporary short-term cost of manufacturing buildings and the tightening of depreciation rates are much more focused on reducing the pressure on the economy, so that the pressures do not hit blindly, but those who have the economy for it. It was alarming that a government led by Jens Stoltenberg, who previously had a positive business profile, presented such a hostile budget. In the change of line after the Prime Minister's statements, he did not respond to the question of whether it is such an industrial policy that he would actually stand for. The government's proposal for VAT reform was incomplete. Now we get a real reform with a halved food tax, something like that. are positive for families with children, and thus good family policies. Travel and public transport are also exempted from VAT, in addition to culture. This is not least important for the districts. That this is financed by a general VAT increase of 1 pst. is acceptable. This may dampen some of the overall private consumption growth which has been very high in recent years. Otherwise, we had to note that the government's draft budget was too poor in key areas such as the environment, districts and transport, education and research, health and care and working conditions for non-governmental organisations. In these areas, the budgetary agreement is now making clear improvements. This has given us a good budget agreement. But this also shows some of the dividing lines between the center and the working part. Such dividing lines are also available on issues other than those related to the budget, including: on some issues of value, in family and environmental policy. But there are also clear dividing lines in relation to the right parties, and in particular to the Advance Party. This is in areas such as aid to poor countries, refugee and asylum policies, rural policies, drug policies, areas of environmental policy and some issues related to life, including: in the field of medical technology. Politics is wild. The Christian People's Party will achieve something through our political work. We have put a great deal of emphasis on Norwegian policy over several years, both in government and in opposition – this time from the opposition, through close cooperation with the Centre Party and the Left, and in agreement with the Workers' Party. The Christian People's Party is a value-oriented party, with main priorities in international solidarity, family policy, environmental policy and health care. We stand for a clear line that limits itself both to over-belief in collective solutions and to one-sided individualistic orientation. The solutions must be found at the intersection of respect for the individual on the one hand and the need for Community solutions on the other. That is why we will also give greater room for the voluntary sector, which is operating in the space between the individual and the public. Hundreds of thousands of people in our country are engaged in voluntary organisations and do unselfish work in areas such as humanitarian and social work, culture, Christian life, environment, sports, etc. That is why we were very surprised that the Government so consistently cut down on appropriations for such work. Now the Prime Minister has said that the Workers' Party is strongly in favour of such work. This will be followed in practice in retrospect, even when the Government is to follow up the budgetary agreement which requires the Government to provide an assessment of the impact of the VAT reform on non-governmental organisations. The Christian People's Party is a prominent cooperation party. In recent years, we have especially enjoyed being in close cooperation between the parties in the centre of Norwegian politics, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. This has given us strength and influence. We will also invest in this in the future – for the benefit of countries and people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e443	Let me first of all stress that it is very positive that the centre parties and the representative Bondevik have shown the willingness to enter into negotiations with the Labour Party on the state budget for the next year with a view to establishing an overall budgetary agreement. That was also the result. It is a budgetary agreement that has allowed both the Workers' Party and the Centre to give priority to important matters that we agree on, strengthening the public sector, district policy, ensuring agricultural transfers, health pay schemes, international solidarity, to mention important areas. Like me, I am sure that Mr Bondevik has also seen that it is precisely in these areas that the centre and the Labour Party have agreed to give priority, that the right parties, the Right and the Advance Party, have cut in their alternative budgets. In other words, they have made a kind of reverse priority of what the budget agreement between the centre and the Workers' Party secures and enshrines. Now the representative, Mr. Bondevik, said in his speech that he did not want to speculate in future cooperative constellations. I respect that and, to a large extent, I have not intended to even try to draw the representative Mr Bondevik out on some sort of glare in that way in this debate. However, it might be interesting to hear Mr Bondevik's assessment of whether he sees an opportunity to enter into similar overall budgetary agreements with the right parties here on the Stortinget. The central parties met the Workers' Party in negotiations with what was their most important concern, namely the VAT reform. Sees the representative, Mr Bondevik, that it had been possible to find a satisfactory solution for the centre, among other things. on this most important matter for the centre which had to be settled first in negotiations, by going to the right parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e452	The Christian People's Party and the central parties are in the centre of economic policy. That is what is also our strength, because we then have greater flexibility and the ability to cooperate in different directions around the budget. In this way, we have also shown that we have been able to cooperate - since Hill-Marta Solberg asked - with the Right and the Advance Party on two budgetary settlements this enlargement period, correctly by the fact that the two subsidized voted in favour of an adjusted proposal by the government, but I do not place such emphasis on it, because in reality they were involved and took responsibility for the budgets as they were for the years 1998 and 1999. We believe that it gave the most acceptable result. The reason why access points can also be found is that we have a greater community that way in questions like this. go under the conditions of enterprise and business, which was one of the most disappointing of the proposals of the Labour Party Government, in family policy, in relation to voluntary efforts in humanitarian, social, private, etc. For us, it's not crucial what is the name of the parties with which we enter into budgetary settlements, but the result. We have been able to provide the results we have achieved, both when we were in government, at the first three budgetary proceedings of this period, and now in opposition in a settlement with the Workers' Party. In fact, here both the Labour Party and the right parties are more locked in budgetary work, because they can largely only orient themselves on a path. As far as VAT reform is concerned, we have never been able to test out what the result would have been in any agreement with the right parties. At least I understood at the Progress Party that they were too halved VAT. I do not ignore the fact that the right in a negotiation could have given on such a point. We've never had that tested out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e462	At least experimentally, it is claimed from the centre that there has been a great deal of historical shift in this budgetary agreement. It's possible, but it's also shifted on a lot of definitions. The centre has been very busy for many years, stressing the importance of predictability. They print out correctly in the financial position: ‘... it is an objective of economic policy to establish stability and foreseeable framework conditions.’.» So it's a measure of the center parts. Then my question is, is that a long-term goal? Is that a short-term goal, or is it an unattainable goal? For the next year, at least there is no target, when you see the central parties agreeing with the Workers' Party on tax austerity, which also has retroactive effect. It has nothing to do with predictability! Differentiated electricity charges are provided, which are both bureaucratic and cost-intensive for the companies. You bring a business cycle fee, which I register you say is a temporary scheme that will obviously only apply for a year. However, it distorts the investment base and makes it difficult to delineate enterprises. Then you come with a share tax, with retroactive effect. And then you say that some of this is only going to apply for a year, and next year we're going to bring something else. It's just that what this other is, nobody knows, because even though the parties have agreed to have a new tax system, you obviously don't agree on what it looks like. Just a few days after the budget conciliation, it was obvious that the centre had one interpretation of it, and the Workers' Party had a completely different interpretation of it. Then my question becomes: is it so that Kjell Magne Bondevik believes that this is predictable from the center?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e472	First of all, this mover is in the budget. It's moved on a lot of history. I know that who's been in this house for between 25 and 30 years. Now there's no goal in itself to move in as many billions as possible. But when we had to do it this time, it was simply because the proposal was too bad, and in particular it was corporate hostile. That's the reason. But there's no point in moving over $20 billion. Yes, I acknowledge that one should have the greatest possible predictability in terms of the framework conditions for business, and that which has to do with taxes and taxes. However, tax decisions must also be taken every harvest here in the Grand Duchy. That means that one is not cut off from making any changes at all. It almost surprises me that Siv Jensen is asking about this. For some people are making strong changes in taxes and taxes, it is precisely the Progress Party. They boast that they're moving on more than any other batch in this area. So tax policy would not be predictable if you were to follow the proposals of the Progress Party. The changes that are now taking place, by the budgetary agreement that has been reached, I believe, are of such a nature, so moderate, and some of them also temporary because of the cyclical situation, that they are absolutely to live with in a completely different way than those proposed by the Government. So now we've had a tax system that's basically been in order since the 1992 tax settlement, I guess. The fact that one is now drawing up guidelines for changes in it with a view to something that will work from 2002, i.e. ten years later, does not seem unreasonable to me. After ten years, it's most natural to look at the principles of our tax system. The Labour Party and the Centre Parties agree on this point is what is in the agreement, and it provides good enough guidance for the work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e483	Cooperation must be based on agreement on matters. This is why: The right fully agrees with Kjell Magne Bondevik recently said about the volunteer organisations' place in society. This is precisely why I am all the more disappointed that the centre parties are involved in a VAT reform that has a very large and negative impact on the voluntary organisations living from collected funds. I see you should come back to this after the government's assessments. But it can't be that complicated to figure out that, for example. The Powers Foundation, which lives on collected funds, very simply calculates that for them, VAT on services means half a million kroner in increased annual expenditure. They do not benefit from any State aid, but simply live, as NGOs often do, from collected funds. In yesterday's debate, speakers from the Christian People's Party called for proposals that build bridges against the Christian People's Party from the Right. Now, if you don't see these, it's because you haven't asked about them either, much less negotiated about such proposals. But I can only point out here and now that from the Right we have expressed a number of times our great, strong support for the proposals that lie in the investigation of the sample that the Bondevik government reduced – it was called ‘Flat Tax’, but was renamed the ‘Flat Tax’ – Steel Committee. There's a number of excellent suggestions, which just have the little chin at them, that they were never promoted by the government of Bondevik. Now I see that the center parts along with the right of the budget-inner. S. No 1 on page 70 is a part of that. «considers it appropriate to change the tax system by approximating the tax rates on labour and capital». So this is a majority comment from all except the Workers' Party and SV. Therefore, I would like to challenge Bondevik to answer the following questions: Does he agree with Valgerd Answerstad Haugland, who says: «We believe the agreement means that ordinary labour income is to receive lower taxes»?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e497	With regard to non-governmental organisations and the impact of VAT reform on them, which will have a particularly strong impact on those who operate in their own way, we are fully aware of this. That was the reason why I mentioned it in the change of line after the Prime Minister's statements, and it is actually taken care of in point 6 of the agreement, where it says: «The impact on non-governmental organisations must also be assessed in this context.» We have six months of this. After all, the VAT reform is to be introduced from 1 July, and it is therefore time to take the necessary measures to ensure that non-governmental organisations are not unduly affected on this point. In the case of flat tax, it may, under given assumptions, result in a better tax system. That's why we didn't have any problems with being on that note with the Right in the financial position, which points in that direction. This could be part of the assessment of the tax system that the Government is now required by the agreement to return to at the latest together with the State budget for 2002. It states as one of the criteria for this investigation: «an approximation between the taxation of capital and labour so that the divisional model is terminated.» I agree with Valgerd Replystad Haugland that an approximation of the tax rates on capital and labour income is natural when the tax on capital increases, that the tax on labour income decreases. But what we have agreed with the Workers' Party is what is stated in paragraph 12 of the Agreement. That's what we're going to do. The Minister of Finance has kept to that. We seem to have a reasonable understanding of it is that the tax on labour income decreases with a social profile, for example. in the case of relief primarily at the bottom. But we'll get back to this when the government's investigation comes on track, at the latest at the budget proposal next autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e514	That's a lot of context we can be reasonably sure of is there. There is a link between the price of a good and the consumption of the good or service. In this budget and in this budget agreement, the Christian People's Party agrees to reduce the taxes on petrol and diesel. I assume that the objective of this is that the fee bill should be paid at lower prices, and that there is no profit for the oil companies' Christian People's Party. With a lower price, we certainly get an increased consumption. We know that 40 pst. our CO2 emissions came from the transport sector - passenger and goods transport. Then it becomes a natural question: is this good environmental policy? Is it good environmental policy to reduce the price of a product, thereby increasing consumption and increasing CO2 emissions? So over to something new, which I have an additional question. With pride, Bondevik says they've been on a historic move. This winter we dealt with a big-time report on research. And in the research sector, Norway is poor. We're one of the OECD countries that spends the least on research. If we are to achieve the objectives set by the majority here in Stortinget, we must increase the annual appropriations for the public sector by approx. One billion kroner. It was the Bondevik government that put forward the research report, and that put the leaders on this. Does Mr Bondevik feel that what has now been presented and the compromise that has been reached will lead us towards the goal set? According to the Research Council, it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e521	Only in the case of petrol and diesel prices. Now, the situation is that despite the reduction in the taxes on petrol and diesel, the price of petrol will still be higher than it has in recent years. I believe that the price that will now be set off, with the fee that will now come, will be an environmental policy quite right price level. It is higher than in most other countries, and it is particularly stressful in the districts, where prices are even higher than in the central districts. As far as the price of diesel is concerned, this is particularly important for companies and their competitiveness, and we also need to look at it in that perspective. The centre batches have, as you know, several times proposed a system of equal petrol prices, with a self-financing anti-fouling system, so that the districts are not hit as hard as they are today, and as we will also notice quite significantly even with the tax reduction that is now coming. It is said – as a small bracket – rather paradoxically that only one gas power plant for which authorisation has now been applied for in Forest will emit, as I understand it, as much CO2 as three times the car fleet in Norway. It shows the madness of that part of the policy, but there's SV and the center parties agree. So for the research effort. Something positive is happening through this budgetary agreement here in relation to the Government's proposals. First of all, we have been able to see an increase in funding for the research fund by half a billion dollars, and secondly, there is a strengthening of university appropriations, where a significant part of our research is going on. So I mean that all in all, this means that we're taking steps in the right direction, and in the direction of that goal the central government set out in our big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e530	Reciprocal comments between two parties who have reached a compromise on the budget are given a little bit of a ritual expression. And maybe we'll think about, maybe we should do it a little bit less ritually. It is obvious that the Labour Party believes that the budget presented by the government of Stoltenberg was the best, adapted to the country's situation. The cooperation parties strongly claim that they felt that relatively large sizes had to be relocated in order for this budget to be satisfactory for them as well. Well, these are the starting positions. But the result is that we now have a majority for a budget that both parties believe is the best thing for which a majority can be created in this process. This has been achieved for the second time in a row by cooperation between the parties and the Workers' Party, not on a minimum solution, but on a solution covering the entire budget. I think it's a value. Now I'm not going to do any short-term or long-term analysis of the role of the center, but it's clear that the center is the center because it's central. This does not necessarily mean that you can act on the à la carte principle of politics. Although a cross-cutting majority can be found in different directions, it may need a longer-term strategy before long-term cooperation patterns can be found in Norwegian policies. I say this with full respect for the fact that all the political constellations of course go in, for example. in the coming election campaign with its message and with its direction. But that means that on this day, too, we might let ourselves be a little proud of what we now for the second year in a row have managed to get together.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e541	I'm absolutely proud, I, of what we've got. And when a colleague as pleasant and good as Tom Thoresen is replicating, I have no problem saying that. We had good negotiations at night. I might reveal a little secret joke from those negotiations. We started by saying that our first requirement was that Tom Thoresen should be renominated in Eastfold, and we wondered how the Workers' Party would meet that requirement. [[muttering in the hall]] Yes, I think it's right as Tom Thoresen said, that this is the best budget one can get under the prevailing conditions – when the Workers' Party first sits in government. But it is clear that if we had been presented with a budget proposal from a central government, it would not have been the great need to change what it was now. For what came was too bad, not least to the business community, the voluntary sector, the environment, etc. Centre does not operate policies according to the à la carte principle. We stand for a steady economic policy. It's located in the center of the political spectrum. It gives us more space for action than the parties on our right and left sides have, because they can almost only see in one direction – even though they had a mutual flirtation with each other in the autumn of 1998 where they suggested a reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the Right. Fortunately, there was nothing of that, because it had probably been bad for the country and maybe bad for those parties as well. Center acts responsibly. Even though we were killed six months ago, we have been willing to go in, take budgetary responsibility, show a constructive attitude. Yes, the centre parties are somehow condemned to take responsibility, for one will soon not get a budget solution in the Storting without the centre participating. Other lots can kind of sit on the side line. We can and will not do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e554	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e557	Just a little follow-up on the last line change. It would actually be quite exciting to know what the center really would have had in terms of budget. They are, of course, the only grouping here in the United Kingdom which, at this budgetary procedure, did not show the cards in advance, and did not show transparency as to what their real priorities were. What we have now seen is what compromises they were willing to make, but not from what point of view. Yesterday's debate certainly gave us answers to some important questions relating to the budget, such as: why we now get the highest tax and tax increases in human memory, worse than both business and individuals, why we don't give enough money to get a better school, despite the fact that this is the key to Norway's success in a globalised world, why road construction continues to run at snail speed, despite cows, accidents, racial hazards and high time costs, why the defense is now operating with stocks that are very dramatically low, with the result that there is great frustration in Defence – we must now stop laughing at the Russian North Fleet, which cannot afford to practice. The answer to these questions is quite straightforward, namely that in Norway we are not able to redeploy in the budgets we are dealing with. One of the heaviest arguments for an entry on a government budget is that this is how we did it last year, this is a incorporated right. This means that we do not have the power to rebalance our usual thinking and priorities, and that is why this budget is not a good enough response to what is now the most important challenges. So if we're going to be able to give an answer to the most important challenges, we're going to have to look critically at some of the use of money we've had. The right fully supports the redisposals we put into this budget. We mean, for example: that it is important to adjust the sick pay scheme somewhat. It's growing explosively, taking away our freedom of action – and it's not strange, it's the best system in the world. But when we listen to the Prime Minister and the rhetoric he and others from the Workers' Party serve, it's quite obvious that they're now painting themselves into a corner, because with the rhetoric they add, there's little they can do with this arrangement. But at some point they have to come back with proposals if they are to regain control of the financial resources. The rhetoric that, among other things, the Prime Minister applies, goes far beyond the framework of reasonableness. First of all, it is a powerful attack, for example. in case of a lot of traps in Sweden, which have made significantly greater changes than that to which the Right has submitted. It's a characteristic of what's happening at the moment people move from being sick to being disapproved. Then the disaster that the Prime Minister described arises, but he takes the necessary freedom of action. Another area in which we also agree to disposals is the aid budget. So now we've been on for 40 years with very mixed results, and then the majority is going to make us think that the difference in solidarity with the third world is going to go somewhere between 10 and 12 billion dollars. Of course, it's not credible, and it's even less credible when it's the same parties that at best pull their feet in the face of really opening up to an international trade, which makes the Third World get better conditions. That's why it's no more than empty rhetoric when the finance minister talks about taking away the poor. Anyone with the slightest insight into development issues will know that so simple are not these contexts, yes, unfortunately there are significant means that have not gone to the poorest – we all know that. Or the districts? Although little is being cut into funds for local food development, there is room for a better rural policy. It means a significantly greater commitment to road construction, or it means a significantly better policy for small businesses. There are roads and businesses that are key in District Norway, not some municipal action fund. If we're going to be able to translate the budget in the right direction, we also have to take some of these tasks, but that's not the majority willing to do. That's why everything is going to be the same as before, and some of the most important problems remain as unresolved as they've been before. That is why this budget is going in the wrong direction, including on the expenditure side. Much has been said about the alternative settlement that has now been concluded. I think it should be noted that it is too weak on both the expenditure and the income side. And the biggest thing that's done is to change the tax burden from one person to another. That's the main thing. And we're well allowed to say it so that's what happens when the center is not anchored in a cooperation with the Right. Now let's look at a couple of things that should be done better. One is school, education and research. And then I want to initially deliver two flowers, because there have been two good and important things. One is that it is now at least a beginning to address the pay issues of teachers – a long-term requirement. That's what I think is good has started to happen. And the catastrophic cut in universities and colleges is at least fixed, so there's a net addition now of 330 million. kr in relation to the proposal of the Workers' Party. Yet, this school budget is well beyond what we need to get the world's best school, which must be our goal. The right-hand proposal is 800 million. kr, e.g. to better hours in primary school. But if we're going to have to do these things, we're going to have to do some hard times. The second concerns roads and road construction. And if there's something we're asking about everybody when we're out, it's just, why doesn't it happen anymore in the road construction area? For everyone knows that it's about being able to do something for the districts, it's about reducing the time lost, it's about doing something about the big accident figures. And between the budgetary procedures, almost everyone in the Storting goes out and talks about that we should really have more money to go by. But then we don't have to do what is necessary when we come to the budgetary proceedings, because we're going to do what we did last year. We're proposing a road billion this year too – it's a beginning to get a better service in this area. And so, frankly, I have to say a little bit about the defense, because it's very serious what's going on. Not only has the defense now been subjected to such sharp cuts that we even have to send highly trained pilots right from education and into SAS – there is no room for them in the defense. But as if this isn't bad enough, this equation intersects another 100 million. kr in the defence budget. Now we're going to have to make a real decision about what we want. It's not enough to wait for reorganisations all the time. If everyone thinks that's where the answer lies, I'd say it's just where some of the answer lies. We have to have the will to maintain a proper level of defense, if you don't get to say openly that there is something else you want. That's why the right-hand side of the table adds $1 billion to the defense in this budget. And then a few words about what has shaped the debate, namely the record tax and tax sharps. We appreciate that the conciliators have understood that the attack on the business community was very harmful, and at least they have tried to dampen some of it. But it has to be maintained that next year there will be worse conditions than in the current year, and that is why business is also responding to this. It's not enough to say that it could get even worse. The point is that it gets worse. But the sad thing is that if you want to do this, you're going to do harder work for the individual, for example. with electricity taxes and increases in taxes on housing – over 25 p.m. in the last two years. And it's no wonder that the Prime Minister in the last spontaneous question hour just mentioned the increased taxes on housing as one of the things of the budgetary conciliation that definitely went in the wrong direction. It will be interesting to see how he intends to follow up that recognition later. We should have been able to go another way, we should have been able to make it easier for the lower incomes, as the Right does in its alternative budget. We should have been able to raise the limit of top taxes, at least a few dollars, as the Right does in its budget, so that more people can enjoy it. We should have adjusted the special deduction for age and for disability in line with wage developments in the interests of the pensioners concerned. Fortunately, the center of VG now says that they want to bring down the taxes for ordinary people. Fortunately, Bondevik says that now we have to keep up the burden on business. I would like to remind you that if both Valgerd Answerstad Haugland and Bondevik are to get what they want, yes, then it is not useful to go to the Workers' Party, then it is enough on our side of the line they have to pick up their connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e585	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e589	Mr Petersen mentioned three aspects of the budget's expenditure side: school and research, road construction and defence. Without prejudice to the fact that probably some of the tasks in the first two areas can be solved with some kind of private contract prices, these are heavy areas of public spending. So in an economy that's going on as high as it is now, it's not just about being able to finance reforms of this kind, but about being able to finance them in the total economy and get professionals for them. Then I think it seems a little unreasonable that the Right opposes a cautious increase in taxes on those parts of the business that go very well, precisely to prevent not all expansion in the economy we have from coming there. And with the priorities that the Right has in public areas, I think it's strange that the Right is not concerned with the same thing. Now it is possible to imagine long-term effects on the relocation of people in the public sector, I think all parties in this room agree on that. But if you want to follow up on what is the Right priority spending areas in this budget, you probably also have to be willing to see how the total economy is used, so that there is room for this increase in public spending. I no longer think the Right is there that I characterized a few years ago by that tax relief is the answer – what was the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e601	When the differences on the tax side are so big this year, it's because the Workers' Party beats up with as hard increases as they do. That's where the problem arises. When I listen to Tom Thoresen, it's quite clear that he's having a little trouble taking in what's involved in being a fiscally different country. The Swedes have understood that they cannot be a fiscally different country. They know that even with unchanged tax rates, they will lose significant parts of their tax revenues – I think they're estimated to be 10 pst. – due to tax competition with the rest of the world. That's the same problem we're facing, and the other prime minister wasn't dealing with in his answer to the line I had to him. If we put a completely different burden on business, and so far on individuals, other than those in other countries, the tax base disappears. That's why we have to keep going. I believe that the whole border trade debate is a debate on exactly the same thing: people are acting elsewhere because our taxes and taxes are too high. That's also the problem with many of the new industries. We have a tax regime that makes them not able to live and feel good, and therefore they disappear to the rest of the world. So it's necessary to keep going. It was the government's recognition a few months ago. That recognition is under the pressure of the Workers' Party's gallup development disappeared as dew for the sun because it's something with the old-fashioned, social-democratic thinking that makes this nevertheless unapproachable. That's why we have to keep going, and we think our position is important. Otherwise, the promises I talked about, where we want to add, are well covered within the budget we have committed, and there has not been any accusation against us at that point. You could say a lot about right, but balance budgets, we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e612	Several Right-wing Representatives have expressed concerns about developments in border trade. According to HSH, this year we will spend 10 billion dollars in Sweden, and that is a significant increase in this trade. In addition to food, tobacco and alcohol are obvious products that contribute strongly to border trade, and this is due in particular to the large differences in taxes between our countries. The differences have now become so large that the trade will not explode, it has already done so. The increase is 45 pst. in one year. And the Swedes lower their taxes, they do it next year and probably in the years that come. With the Right proposal on tobacco and alcohol taxes, the differences between Sweden will increase next year. My question is, is the Right really concerned about the border trade? Does the Right believe that their proposals will help to reduce this trade, or will there be a need for significantly greater reductions in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e621	In the previous line, we were accused of excessive tax relief, in which we were accused of having too low tax reliefs. I think we've found a good balance in many ways. Because it is quite right – as the Monsen also mentions – that we will reduce them, not least in terms of taxes on alcohol, and that is well adapted to the situation we are up against. I would like to remind you that we are also opposed to the increase in VAT contained in the majority proposal, which is also part of this. And then there are some things we don't intend to buy in Sweden, for example. motorways.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e628	In his statement, the representative Petersen said that one of our problems is that we are not able to redispatch the budgets. At least it'll work out right. One of the redispatching proposals promoted by the Right in its alternative budget is a cut in the NSB allocation of 467 million. kr, a cut that is promoted because the NSB does not provide the services they are required to provide. I'm referring here to what's in the Right Alternative State Budget. The NSB has been through a dramatic year and is not very close to getting to the right place. We have seen countless times in the last year the head of the Committee on Transport, Oddvard Nilsen, a politician for whom I have the greatest respect, appear with the utmost seriousness and gave a description of how necessary it is to bet on safety within the NSB in order to avoid the kind of accident, such as a lack of regularity, axle breakage and breakdown of operations, which has hit the NSB in the last year. So the right answer to Oddvard Nilsen's requests and initiatives to improve the NSB situation is to cut by 467 million. kr. It's a kind of double morality that I didn't think I was going to experience from the Right. It's okay that the NSB has not provided the services they need on unprofitable routes, and that they have had many cancellations – which the representative Jan Petersen will probably respond to. But it's a fact that when you cut half of the appropriations that go to just these unprofitable routes, you're going to be less able to do maintenance, less able to have the staff that is proper to avoid human failure, and less able to upgrade train equipment in such a way that you can make a real offer. Is this the Right’s response to the opinions expressed by the Chair of the Committee on Transport in various contexts during the last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e641	Now, Enoxen was kind enough to give some of the answer to the question he had: He is quite right that we today pay a lot of money for goods that are not delivered. And it's not just about unprofitable routes, if that's what Enoxen thought. No, it is so that within a route offer, which we should also have elsewhere, the goods are not delivered – an example is all the cancellations we have had this autumn because the NSB has not been able to get drivers in place. And frankly, I don't think there's any point in pushing more and more money into a system that obviously needs quite powerful reorganisations. Let's start with this: let's get things delivered in place, and we'll probably be able to pay for the services we get. But we're going to get the services when we pay for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e651	Right is a predictable batch. This means that most of what is in this budget is predictable, although one goes further in being such a Progress Party light-variant in fiscal policy than before. I'll leave it. But what surprises me is that the Right, since the Right is a distender, formed and conservative party, is not more concerned with other issues than just tax policy. What I'm thinking about in particular is that the right should have been more concerned with how to leave the globe to our children, which is a classic, conservative position: you have to deliver something that is better than what you received. So the Hague climate conference has now collapsed. And what surprises me is that in the alternative budget that the Right has, there is not a single place a desire for an active environmental policy. Of course, a lot of taxes and taxes, which are also environmental taxes, are being reduced to public transport, and more is needed for road construction – i.e. traditional, conservative policies, according to the old reading: Business Rights. But why isn't right then, as opposed to the other right-hand party in the Norwegian big business, concerned about what should also be considered, namely how we are going to be able to cope more fully with the major climate challenges? For climate challenges, the Right-People are also affected, and it affects the Advance Party people. That means that it's the Storting that has to take the necessary steps to go in the right direction. And I think, independently of the fact that there was now a breakdown in The Hague, that we can't hide our head in the sand. We need to take action that leads to fewer emissions from the industry, including the transport side, so that we can meet these challenges. This will also agree with the neckline in the Right, those who walk in the mountain and see that the forest line crawls upwards by increasing the temperature. These will also be concerned about this. And my question to Jan Petersen is: why isn't Right concerned with this, why later on you are going to compete with the Progress Party only in terms of lower taxes, but not in terms of an active environmental policy, such as a formed, distended and conservative party that Right should be more concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e662	It is obvious that SV is at least very predictable, as far as I can see, they have had one line through this entire financial debate, and that is exactly what has now been carried out. Thank you for getting it in a new variant! The point is, first of all, that the Right has talked about more than tax and tax. We think it's important to talk about it since we've had the tough increases we've been given, but the post I've now made was actually quite a lot centered on how we want to use the state's large funds in a different way in some areas. So with all due respect, that part of the objection doesn't last. So to the environmental issues, I'm surprised that Djupedal hasn't noticed what the Right has about the North. There's one important profile in our foreign budget, and that's that we want to do a lot more in the north than we've done so far. It is also predictable, for this has been a recognizable right-hand position for many years. We have been very far ahead in getting a better Norwegian effort in the northern regions with a focus on the environment. And we believe that we really have one of the big environmental bombs there. On the issue of the climate, which is just as much about our own country, let me refer to the countless debates that we have had on this. When we have said yes to gas power stations, it is because we believe that this is also a good environmental policy. We believe that it is not possible to set borders around Norway, but want to see this in a wider European context. I therefore have a very good conscience for the environmental policy we put forward, and I hope and believe that, in the future, the Storting may be more interested in the important aspect of environmental issues in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e673	The right under Jan Petersen's leadership, month by month and year by year, has built a distance from the center of political reality. The right has become more and more an extreme lot. This has also helped to build the distance from government participation as the parliamentary situation has been and will most likely remain. Many of us thought that this strategy would culminate after the Right succeeding in replacing Bondevik's government with a working party government, ‘finalized’ three days later in the VG on March 12, where the Right Leader demanded that the undersigned and the other centre leaders go off to get a cooperation. But the Right didn't use the next six months to rebuild burned bridges. The right-hand alternative budget is an external Right-wing budget. Where the Right accuses the centre of throwing the burden on most people, they themselves promote proposals for tightening up the health pay system of nearly SEK 6 billion – a cold proposal where the sick of the people most have to pay the Right Policy. Equally wrong is the fact that the Right makes the small, but absolutely necessary, adjustments in the health pay scheme proposed by the Sandman Committee, which is the Left's line and which assumes a broad compromise without the polarization on this issue that the Right now raises. Let me ask the following questions on this background: Can Petersen confirm that his and Right Government Participation Strategy is the unlikely, but theoretically possible, outcome that the Progress Party and Right get a majority in this Chamber alone after the elections next year, where Jan Petersen can become Minister of Foreign Affairs and Vice President Inge Wohnning Minister of the Church of a Carl I. Hagen-led Government, what now it had to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e686	I'm not quite sure how to take this message from the center's posted employee. First a little bit to the story: I've never required anyone to go off, Lars Sponheim knows very well. However, I have pointed out that, among other things: Lars Sponheim in practice may not have shown the great willingness to include the Right in a government option. I find it hard to see that it is contrary to the facts, not least with the tone Lars Sponheim had in his post. But this should be history, and I hope it's history. I think what's going on both for me and for Lars Sponheim now is looking forward. I think it's important that, among other things, Kjell Magne Bondevik has said that he is very concerned about the Labour Party's policy in some areas. It requires something from us, but it requires reciprocity from us. And I hope and believe that Lars Sponheim is here at Stortinget in the next period, so that we can have the opportunity to develop this further. I'm not quite sure if I understood the question about the Advancement Party and the Right. Lars Sponheim knows very well that my primary preferences go in different directions. What I've said about both the Center Party and the Advance Party is that I think everyone should sit down and talk together, and then we'll see what results that gives. When it comes to the outcome of the sickness pay scheme, I'm also a little confused about it, because I think I remember that the left also has program posts at this point. I therefore believe that it must also be possible here to come up with a consensus. This applies not only to the Left, but also to the Christian People's Party. I think we are all concerned about the large expenditure in this area, and not least about those areas within the State budget that are not adequately prioritised. I understand that Lars Sponheim will relive March 2000 over and over again, but I actually believe that our task is now a completely different one, namely to build something more durable than that. And I'll be allowed to remind Lars Sponheim that if he first wants to be a government alternative, he should also have an alternative policy in relation to the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e700	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e703	The budgetary agreement with the central parties ensures that the Workers' Party will have an impact on the main priorities of the Government's draft budget for next year. It is the Workers' Party well pleased with. Although major changes have been made in some areas of income, the budgetary agreement ensures that the same social democratic considerations are respected. There is an increased commitment to well-being, such as health, care for the elderly, schools and kindergartens, in terms of a fairer distribution, national and international, with strong redistribution through the tax system on dividends, relief in the tax on ordinary labour income and a sharp increase in the aid resources of DKK 1.5 billion, and not least security for work and the personal economy, by the fact that through budgetary negotiations the Labour Party has been able to agree to a responsible use of oil revenues in order not to increase pressure on jobs and interest rates. That's the last thing -- the interest rate -- the families with children and other people with high loans are busy, not that we're moving on some hundreds of sheets here and there. We have heard throughout the debate on the State budget that the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties is moving in large amounts on the income side. It's true that it's moving on some amounts on the income side, but they're not as big as anyone likes to produce it. What is good is that, despite this move, the Workers' Party achieves essentially the same thing with the alternative tax regimes in the budget agreement as in the Government's proposal. The Labour Party has managed to ensure a fairer distribution by the fact that the shareholders, who earned more than 17 billion dollars last year, have to pay 11 pst. taxes on these revenues. It's going to be 11 pst. higher than in the past, but still not high in relation to normal labour income. The working party has managed to ensure that there is room for increased bets on, among others. health and care through the fact that, after many good years, business needs to contribute somewhat more to the community. It shall take the form of reduced depreciation rates, a changed short-term charge in relation to the Government’s proposal and the removal of double interest deductions from banks. None of this would mean that a business life in association cannot continue to live on with good results. But whether these grips are better for business than the economic cost proposed by the Government is rather doubtful. The working party is concerned with a fairer distribution. I noticed that the Christian People's Party leader in his reply yesterday was more concerned with a fair distribution to business than with a fair distribution between the richest and the poorest. It also shows the budgetary settlement, where some of the central parties' demands for a slightly smaller tax on dividends, the benefits in the sharing model and less business tax in relation to the Government's proposal are now to be paid by people most without any additional «buffering zone» for those who serve the least in relation to what was already in the budget. The right-hand draft budget is no surprise to anyone. The right has never thought that it's ever the turn of business to take a promise for the welfare community. No matter how good it is for Norwegian business, the rich will contribute less to the community. Those who are required to pay the tax relief of the Right are, among other things, the subject of the medical report. The right will introduce a karenday, then two days of low sick pay and then 10 pst. reduction in sick pay. A bill of almost $6 billion is going to be flipped over to ordinary employees. In addition, the Right will reduce the number of action sites from 9 000, as proposed by the Government, to 5000, which will primarily affect the weakest in the labour market. The right also includes agricultural aid, regional and industrial aid, social security, Aetat, the school leisure system and the housing allowance. The representative Foss said in his statement that there was a broad consensus that the 1992 tax reform would involve long-term and predictable conditions. Yes, the Labour Party does not disagree with the fact that it is correct that there were such assumptions in 1992. But then the representative Foss must have forgotten that there have been changes in the area since 1992, and that has not least been a right-wing driver. That the reform is now so hollowed out that there is every reason to look at the entire food tax, the Right should also agree. The fact that the head of the Central Party is very pleased with the budget is no surprise to anyone. Half of the food tax in addition to a municipal scheme with larger increases than in many, many years is in port. Because it is well that after fighting for lower food tax for at least 15 years, the Senter Party finally got an impact during this year's budget negotiations, and they had as much impact on the Christian People's Party and the Left as on the Workers' Party. Elector Frank Aarebrot believes that this winner is paying greater dividends to the Centre Party than any of the cases the party was trodden through while they put two and a half years into government. As an east-folder and concerned with border trade, I believe that half of the food is good, both because the food is cheaper for everyone and because it will help limit the strongly increasing border trade. When we know that seven out of ten people who travel to Sweden and trade, mainly trade food, half of the food tax is an important contribution to reducing border trade. But I have to add that I think that alcohol taxes also have to be lowered in order to have an even better overall impact on the border trade. The government proposed to lower the fees for spirits by 17,5 p.m., but we did not get that this time. Anyway, we'll have to come back to that on a later occasion. And here it's more about profiling and politics than about money, because it's because the state's income losses are relatively modest due to increased trade in Poland in Norway and thus increased revenues. The progress party tried yesterday and today on some rounds here in the hall where they claimed that many municipalities would serve at the municipal arrangement of the Progress Party. That's wrong. The Party's tax arrangements also include a number of facilitations that largely affect the income of the local government sector. If there were any logic in this, the Progress Party must have proposed to increase the municipal and county taxor equivalent to the portion of the tax relief relating to the municipal sector, against the corresponding reduction in the common tax to the State. This has not been done by the Progress Party in the setting, and therefore the explanations that the representative Hagen has tried to make today are completely wrong. This means that the proposal of the Progress Party for the taxation of persons, together with that of the party against the Government's proposal for the tax on the dividend and the removal of the share tax on shares, implies that the tax revenue of the local government would overall be reduced by approximately NOK 6 billion compared to the Government's proposal. I believe that those who work in budgets in the 435 municipalities and municipal politicians in the same municipalities are happy that it is not the municipal budget of the Progress Party that is now being adopted – also the rapporteur in Os. In addition, the advance party with DKK 1 billion in daily allowance for the unemployed, cuts in sick pay, so that a normal industrial worker loses NOK 45 900 if he has been sick for one year, cuts in disability benefit in several areas and will cut the pension for the disabled if they earn more than NOK 2. Finally, I am pleased that we will be able to reduce the fuel taxes and diesel taxes by well over NOK 1 next year. I am also pleased that through the agreement we have been able to reverse the electricity charge for the powerful industry back to zero and that the sulphur charge is halved. And it is well to take a little hard when the representatives from the centre parties claim that they both had to press and threaten to get through to remove the electricity charge in the power-intensive industry and to halve the sulphur charge. In that particular case, I think it was the representatives of the Labour Party who were the biggest proponents, because it is well the case at any budgetary procedure that there is also an opportunity to change in areas where hearings and other information give reason to change what has already been proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e733	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e736	It is obvious that there is a great deal of concern for the local economy, although it is actually such a pointless concept that the differences in income, purely political, are so huge between municipalities. Those who looked at the Day Revy yesterday wanted to know that there was research on this. A researcher said that the Finnish county councils are the richest municipalities in the country, but they have so much money that they haven't learned how to use them in the most sensible way, and she actually didn't manage to show significant differences in the service provision in Finnmark and other municipalities. For relatively small municipalities, this may be 50 – 100 million. kr in income differences in the year. But there's something the municipalities can do to improve their economy, and it goes on spending. There are many reports that tell us that the local economy can be improved by outsourcing some services. I'm not going to draw up any discussion about numbers and percentages, but a lot of reports go in the same direction. The working party has been consistently opposed to doing something about the VAT compensation system, which is crucial in this context. Now we have a VAT reform that expands the VAT base, and especially in the case of services, some small municipalities will use, among other things. private lawyers instead of recruiting their own municipal attorney, and there are a number of such areas. The Labour Party has consistently gone towards doing something about this system, and my question is: is this the policy of the Local Government Association, is it the Labour Party's policy, or does the Labour Party, if they are so concerned about the local economy as they say they are, that it is necessary, especially now with this VAT reform, to really give municipalities the opportunity to use the resources they have to reduce their expenditure?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e747	The representative Monsen is talking about the income differences in the municipalities, and it's true that it costs more to run a municipality in Finnmark than in Westfold and Eastfold, where we come from. But in the scheme presented by the Advance Party in Stortinget, there is not one municipality that serves or receives anything more – everyone gets less. There won't be any more well-being of it. The size has also decided to look at the income system and do something about it from 2002 to 2007. The Labour Party agrees. In the case of outsourcing of services, it is not the case that the Workers' Party is opposed to any competitive outsourcing. I believe that many of the municipalities around have always had a competitive outsourcing of several services for many years. However, the Labour Party believes that there is a limit, for outsourcing is not as suitable in all areas, for example: when we are dealing with people and care and care. While in the case of renovation, in the case of sewage, all the municipalities I know have had a competitive outsourcing for many years, and they think it is a sensible arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e756	The representative eye was in the area of the border trade problem, and it is natural for us who come from a border state, where this is a major problem for the commercial industry and for the food industry. HSH has once again been able to tell us how many billions we nordics are left in Sweden. They estimate it at $10 billion, and they expect us to add another 1 billion in December just in Sweden. The trade leakage to Denmark has not been included. This resulted in the Minister of Agriculture going out on Sunday and saying that we should have a cutback to curb the border trade. And when you can't do anything yourself, you make others do something. This has resulted in half of the food tax costing NOK 6 billion in the budget agreement. But those who really can play this game estimate that this amount will reduce food prices in Norway by just 5-6 pst. Then I ask the representative Eye: how can you say that this will defuse the border trade, when we know that it is 40-50 pst. differences in the price of groceries in Sweden and Norway, according to the latest SIFO survey. Otherwise, many other studies show that groceries are much more reasonable in Sweden than in Norway. The second point of the representative Eye was that this is a good and targeted policy measure for distribution. Then I'm going to ask, is it right to say that it's a good distribution policy to spend $6 billion on lubricating in half the food so that those who really spend money on food, those who are rich, get more than those who are poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e765	With regard to the Right's budget and the fight against border trade, I believe that the budget we are about to adopt is much better. As I said in my main post: Seven out of ten who travel to Sweden and trade, trade food. And if you put the food tax down now, something can help – and it will have to – it's clear that the difference between what it costs in Sweden and what it costs in this country is going to be smaller. That's not what the representative Nakkim said, it's 40-50 pst. cheaper in Sweden. There are some products that are cheaper in Sweden, among others. meat. That is why the Labour Party's primary proposal was that we introduce VAT compensation on meat. It is also such that prices in Stroemstad and Årjäng are much lower than in Stockholm. It is because they are running some sort of ribbed, which is now also being discussed here by the Minister of Agriculture. And if we can manage to bring down the price of the few products that are much cheaper in Sweden, and that maybe people are traveling specifically to trade, I think this border trade will slow down. But we've had border trade every year, and I don't think we're going to get rid of it completely. It could not be right, because when the Right had budgetary cooperation with the government, all baits were as expensive as before, and the border trade only increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e772	The basis for our well-being is based on a well-functioning business and secure jobs. The Labour Party's draft budget provided for an increase in the share model and an increase in the electricity charge. This would have hit many small businesses hard. As far as the electricity charge is concerned, it seems to me that the representative Signe eye said that it is the Workers' Party that has put it in place. It's not. In the Workers' Party's draft budget, there was an increased electricity tax that would have hit the place I came from – 100 jobs in the district would have been lost. So, with the help of the center, we have been exempted from the electricity charge for a number of companies. We're very happy about that. In the budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party, it was agreed not to tighten up the scope of the identification rules for non-liberal professions. This means avoiding the main proposals for tightening up and worsening the sharing model. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased about that. This makes it easier for many small businesses to secure jobs. Especially in North Norway, where I come from, there are many small and medium-sized enterprises. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the budgetary conciliation was able to drive the worst tightening back. However, this joy is not shared by fiscal spokesman Dag Terje Andersen, who said that it was a pity that the Workers' Party did not get all the kingdoms. My question to the representative Signe Øye is therefore: Does the representative Eye Dag Terje Andersen share his view that most business owners in Norway are rich? And another question: The representative said that the burdens were passed on to ordinary people, but aren't business owners also ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e781	The representative said that I was not engaged in safe jobs. But that is precisely what has been the struggle throughout the budget debate, that we should maintain the balance in the budget. That's what provides safe jobs, and that's what enables us to maintain jobs and keep interest rates down. We have made that clear, and I believe that the centre of this debate has also expressed it. In the case of an increased electricity charge, it is not only in some areas that it has turned out strongly. For the businesses that we have in Eastfold, it actually went out by 30 million. NOK, and that was everything from NOK 50000 per year. employment to something lower. We also know that in other areas it could be even more powerful. When it was a fact that this hit so hard on some jobs, the representative Hill-Marta Solberg was out immediately and said we had to look at this. So the fact that we're going to fight about who's going to have the credit for it today, I think it's a little petty. The Workers' Party is pleased that we have now been able to reverse the electricity charge in the power-intensive industry. That should be the center party, too. Then ask the representative if I share Dag Terje Andersen's view. Yes, I do. The Labour Party believes that the best budget was the budget we provided, including for businesses. Now we will see whether a new business cycle tax, with new taxes in new areas, is better for businesses than the business cycle tax we proposed. I think we know that only when we get out a little bit next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e792	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e795	The budgetary procedure of the year in the Financial Committee has given many winners. Minister of Culture Ellen Horn was quick to express his enthusiasm and gratitude for the great improvements that the central parties have contributed to. Just as Horn has been more spontaneous than Schjøtt-Pedersen, others than NHO have had to express the relief and satisfaction of business. In fact, NHO's director is alone in responding as surly as the Right Wish. I think it's a pity for the NHO. It was not surprising that the Process Industry National Association was satisfied. The proposed electricity tax on all industries was omitted, the sulphur tax halved, and of the proposed cyclical tax there will be nothing left in 2001 and only 20 pst. in 2002. The starting point that Stortinget got was a dramatic deterioration. For Orkla Exolone with 100 employees, the deterioration would be 4.4 million. kr annually. Then the PIL management in the last PIL writes: ‘Once again, the Stortinget, as a decision-making body, has provided a sound basis for a sensible industrial policy. It calls for recognition of the political environment. For businesses, it is gratifying that arguments are listened to and addressed constructively by politicians.’ And on the other hand, ‘An internationally competitive charging policy’ – and thus they talk about Norwegian charging policy – ‘provides the basis for initial investment, research and innovation in large parts of the process industry. When international economic and product prices are right, I think we will see more major investments. This will increase competitiveness and strengthen the home base of companies competing on the world market. It will also demonstrate how a good interaction between the political and industrial environments can bear fruit.’ It was Per Terje Vold in the National Association of Process Industries that said. It was miles from the comments from the Right and the NHO, and there are miles between the policies that now lie as the final draft budget and what the Right stands for. Yesterday's Evening Post, investment plans in the process industry – DKK 14 billion in the next few years. This is an industry that has a total export of NOK 100 billion per year. It's an important industry. Another budget winner who has thanked nicely is the travel industries. They represent some 170 000 annual works throughout the country. Profitability is marginal for the majority of enterprises. Enquiries to the Stortinget and the results of the Committee show that the industry has many friends all over Norway, but not in the Government. Travel life avoids VAT on overnight stays, on public passenger traffic, on ski lifts and on culture. The short-term charge would have been particularly severe because they are so many. They get benefits from reduced diesel tax and half food tax. The Norwegian Tourist Council gets money as Stortinget promised when the travel news was processed in ours, but as the Government has now tried to withdraw twice. In the longer term, the removal of the investment tax and the small-scale divisional model will give a large impact. The government's VAT proposals have contributed to a wide mobilization of tourism workplaces throughout the country. The industry has been strengthened by the proposal rejected. Half of the food tax is a victory cause for many, for families with children who spend a large proportion of their income on food, for the Norwegian food industry, for merchants and their employees, for Norwegian agriculture and for all who live in and out of jobs in the countryside. It is strange that the labor party government had to be pushed so hard and so long to avoid becoming unpopular among so many. It is not possible to say that you want less commercial leakage to Sweden without operating at the same VAT rate on food! Let me briefly mention other important improvements for business: the allocation of electronic navigational charts and the Rescue Company came into place. The anti-coastal proposal to auction away new breeding concessions has been buried. The export council will have 10 million. kr extra and avoid cutting at a time when business enterprises are really in line to bet out. The Institute of Technology and the Institute of Guidance in North Norway have significantly less cuts than proposed, and this is important for many small and medium-sized enterprises. SND gets $12 million. kr extra for district bet. Extra money is also given to the engineering schools for young people who have chosen an upper secondary vocational education. Public support for research has been greatly boosted. I hope that the construction of the new «G.O.» will continue. Sars’ shall not be exposed. The Industry Committee has visited many Norwegian businesses while waiting for the results of the Financial Committee. We were told that very much is going very well, and that it will continue as if the framework became predictable for the companies themselves and for their customers. Predictability is the main requirement of industry for all decisions taken by the authorities, i.e. not the behaviour of the Government in relation to the tourism industry. A total increase in the processing of the travel news in ours said that the conditions had to be improved, so that the economy of the companies was strengthened. The VAT proposal, the business cycle tax and cuts to joint sales efforts were dramatic and unexpected deteriorations. The Industry Committee met representatives of the shellfish industry and traditional aquaculture in the South-Trundelag. We visited Fosen Mek Workshops that succeed with cruise ferries, fast routes and other luxury ships, Green Vedt Fisk, which expands its processing of herring, and Berg Textil with several hundred Teko workplaces. We visited smart clients from NTNU and SINTEF. In Eastfold we visited Borregaard and the Saugbruksföreningen, which process the timber in a better way than before. Prior and Stabburet are creating more and more new dishes in highly efficient industrial plants. All of the enterprises and industries in the product-producing industry referred to here have strong competition from abroad. They all belong to those who thought some social summits would get too bad conditions in Norway if we did not become EU members in 1994. Today, these enterprises show that the social summits were thoroughly wrong, that Norwegian pay levels, welfare levels and the working environment are not a barrier to success — rather, on the contrary. The biggest challenge is that they succeed so well that the labour force is too coveted. At the recently organized yard conference in Bergen, the maritime cluster was pleased that the Government had promised to follow up with yard support if the EU maintained its position, and unchanged reimbursement arrangements for seafarers. That Council of State Knudsen promised, I could agree, that this would be the case when the budget was adopted. Then two days went by, and then came the proposal to take certain ship types out of the reimbursement scheme. It's quite outrageous! It's not possible to act like this! I hope the business committee finds a system so that this fades can be corrected without too much loss of confidence. The historical failure of the 1980s to land seafarers must not be repeated. It loses all of this important cluster of nutrients. A main reason why our business is doing so well in competition, and that Norway is in such a unique economic and employment situation, in my opinion, is that we have work peace, moderation and good cohesiveness. Sometimes we discover the importance of these success factors. When too many people in business management get too greedy, we get expensive reactions. This happened in 1998 when pay supplements became so large that everyone lost – just as in spring when it was a strike. Statoil-Norvik's parachute and the last leading bonuses in Statoil were stopped by healthy reactions from people most and from the media. That was necessary! Similarly, it was absolutely necessary to introduce a tax on dividends in this budgetary procedure. I think it's the owners who will make the most of getting rid of a scheme that has long provoked the great majority who pay full taxes of all they serve. Without such a fair tax reform now, the foundations of the idea of moderation would be weakened. Another part of this base wall is called good ownership. The building ownership has been the key to safe jobs and great progress. Now the consuming ownership becomes increasingly visible, by actors who are looking for quick gains for themselves, who call it to make the values visible, and who Thorbjørn Jagland has called corporate butchers. I wish that the leader of the Workers' Party was more concerned with stimulating the good, building ownership, more concerned with stopping the negative forces with effective instruments than with shelling words. There are lots of examples where the law could have been used against these butchers, where the employees have begged for it, and where the Workers' Party would have had a majority on the Storting to intervene. This summer it was Polaris and DBS, the bicycle factory at Jären. Now it is the closure of 250 jobs at Nycomed Pharma in Oslo that has ended up with the Minister of Industry. These are very profitable jobs – in the middle of the flash for what we should be putting on as a nation. Nycomed Pharma employees maintain that the new owners were acquired in 1999 on the basis of incorrect information. The acquisition law provides the basis for preventing such closure. It is absolutely necessary that the basic cohesion values that have been the basis for our value creation success be more eagerly defended. Joint respect for long-term thinking is on the waving front. That's what we see in the fisheries, that's what we see in Orkla. It is a primary responsibility of the Government to build a value defense, by practical action to show what it wants others to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e840	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e843	The debate so far has shown that there are many who would like to own something in this budget. Many people also claim to have participated in setting up this budget, to which most people very much agree, and which they think is a good escape for the development of Norway in the future, especially next year. A good part of Morten Lund's post was quoted from journals, newspapers, etc., and it also contained some travel descriptions from visits to some companies around Norway. It is important enough for the Storting to take part in it. But in the post there was not so much about the Central Party's policy when it comes to the challenges that our country faces in time. What is a reality is that the budget contains a clear record of the priorities of the individual parties. And what's also a reality is that the Workers' Party has had an impact on its political priorities, even though the Centre has helped to adjust some of these priorities that the Labour Party has met. But it is also a reality that the government's budget profile is still there, and that the centre has helped to strengthen some of the areas that the Labour Party wants to prioritise. I would like to know from the representative Lund: What has the Centre Party given priority to these budget negotiations when they have not given priority to the municipalities? This means that instead they have given priority to, for example: Matmomsen? Those who have been at some negotiations over the years know that there is not least a good basis for future understanding that there is a lot of wisdom in dividing victories. I think it's useful here in Stortinget too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e854	The centre party has participated in the budget negotiations, and it is important for us to find out what that participation has led to. What I spent some time on was a quote from a letter from the PIL, which was here a few days before the clarifications in the committee happened. There are miles of differences in their description of the situation on the basis of the Workers' Party's proposal and what was now the result. Now, PIL is satisfied; they say we have a big deal that's concerned about what companies say, that listens to them, that does something about matters, and that makes sure that we have a competitive business policy, even though there may be so different suggestions from the Government in the individual cases. The PIL is pleased with the changes that the Central Party has made with the other central parties, and of course also in negotiations with the Labour Party. The central party's policy works well, and the business community believes that it's going to continue, that the Storting is listening to business. If this was very close to what the Workers' Party wanted, that it had the same profile, I wonder why in all the world we would need so much time, and why it would have to be so much dramatic that the Workers' Party could be involved in it. Is there so much further distance from business to government than it is from business to the Stortinget? I hope that the process we have had now can teach the government we have received, something that the government can make better contact with business, and that it will also take on what is stated in the letter from the PIL that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e861	First, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the representative Lund and the middle parties on the fact that they have managed to halve the food tax in the budget agreement. They've been fighting for that for many years. The progress party also agrees with this, but there may be a small leap in joy when you want to increase the overall VAT from 23 to 24 pst. What happens is that the food will first be more expensive before it becomes cheaper, since the new VAT system will only be established on 1 July next year. The Swedes reduced their food tax in 1996, and they had problems with large parts of it benefiting consumers. Farmers' organizations in this country have said that they should do everything they can to reduce prices by 8-9 pst. – that is approximately equivalent. SEK 4500 for a two-child family – to benefit consumers. In the current year, we have had three studies that have taken into account the margins of the food chain from soil to table. The cuts that the primary producers, i.e. the farmers, have taken, have not benefited consumers. What does the Centre Party think should happen in order to ensure that the price reductions we receive from the VAT reduction benefit consumers as much as possible – if that is also the intention of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e870	We've spent a lot of energy discussing food moms lately. Now I hope that we're done, that we've now put that discussion behind us, and that we, among other things. can address what Øystein Hedstrom is now talking about, namely to ensure that the low price of food from the farmer also reaches consumers. It does not do that today, and that is what a proper control system has to do. When we were on our way to Eastfold, we heard from Prior that at the store it separates 100 pst. between a Norwegian and a Swedish egg. From the farmers the difference is only 25 pst. The other 75 pst. gets to the road. 7-8 pst. was concerned at the time with VAT, otherwise it had to do with transport and with shops. I think that's a pretty good example. In Norway, we don't have the same cheap goods at the store if they were free from the farmer, shows a lot of research. We have to somehow get a real competition in the food chain off the farms. In this case, the Competition Authority needs much more on the road, and then focus needs to be shifted over your profits. People will certainly look bad if they don't see who makes money today in the chain from the ground to the refrigerator. Competition surveillance has just conducted a survey that ranked profits in the various chains. Those who came out the worst say that this is not useful, and owe it to those who have been and controlled. I think it's a right picture that's created. There are large margins, but they're probably moving a little bit from week to week.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e879	Like several others from the centre parties, Morten Lund points out that business conditions have improved through the agreement with the Workers' Party. It should also be done to make it worse than the Workers' Party does in business. And then we can leave it at this point that the improvement has been made at the expense of the families of children and by clear tax incentives for individuals. "There are many winners," said Morten Lund. But there are actually some losers as well. Due to the conversion of the short-term economic tax to industrial buildings and the change and tightening of the depreciation rules, there have been significant deteriorations, for example: in all agricultural investments. Every yard, every plough, every animal housing and every building in an industry that is sorely in need of investment has become significantly more expensive, in addition to the fact that the greenhouse industry has been honoured with electricity tax. In his speech earlier today, Kjell Magne Bondevik – when he praised the change from a general business cycle charge to this deterioration for business out in the districts – said that the change had the aim of being targeted and directed at those who have the economy to bear it. I assume that the central parties have coordinated their positions on this matter. Is it aware that this has been directed towards an agricultural sector which, according to Kjell Magne Bondevik, has the economy to bear these clearly worse conditions? Morten Lund spoke nicely about DBS on Jären, but he did not say a word about Kverneland. Was it conscious?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e890	The business community has come so much better out of this budgetary agreement, that they gave the statements that I read a little bit about. We have not received opinions from many organisations that have been negative. It may not be all who have come out as well as the PIL – I am quite sure of that – but we have not received any negative statements from agriculture at all. I have not heard anything about the prices of the plog and on the yard going up after this agreement. I don't think they do either. On the contrary, agriculture has been very satisfied. That's a main reason for that, and that's that the price of food to the consumer now goes down, so we get less border trade. Next, we have weak groups that need to get worse from this. Based on the proposals of the Right, such as: is about the health pay scheme, I think it's brave to talk about it. The Prime Minister has calculated that proposal and has come to the conclusion that one industrial worker on average loses NOK 5000 per year. I think it's big numbers. And if we're going to talk about those who have the worse, those who live in other countries and who are among the poorest, who make up 100 million. That's a lot. We can help a lot for 100 million. kr. That's a lot of 100 million. kr that gets lost in the u-help budget to the Right. Then the representative Hernæs Kverneland misses among the companies I mentioned. They have not been subject to the concession law or the acquisition law, as far as I know. Polaris and DBS were purchased by non-residents and were granted a concession. If they were to be sold, they would be sold to Norwegian companies first, and you would find out if they existed. They were found in these two cases, and then I would have wished they had been taken over by the Norwegians instead of being closed down.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e899	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e902	The 2001 State Budget shows that we have got a collection in the centre of Norwegian policy. At the same time, it means that we can get a polarisation of Norwegian policies, because there have also been changes. with regard to the Right's profile, which we now see is closer to the Progress Party, in particular to fiscal policy, and the fact that there is first and foremost one part of the body to which they appeal when they ask the voters to trust, if they can be accused of making their own wallet a part of the body. That's how far they go. The budgetary agreement reached gives a small profile in the countries where the possibilities are available. In the case of the municipal economy, the situation for most municipalities is that they are on the ground resting next year relative to this year. So that means you don't get any new ones, some higher standards, some greater chance of solving the problems that are urgent in a lot of municipalities, especially in the school sector. And then it doesn't help with the Centre Party's crocodile tears in this debate. There is a settlement that has been moved on a number of dollars in history, and the central parties have not given priority to the local economy. They have prioritised the VAT reform – it's an honest thing, it's an old battle cause for the Center Party – in front of the municipal economy. This means that now there is one party that believes that the municipal economy and the common good are among the most important challenges, and that is SV. I notice that when we talk about environmental policy, there is a growing concern in the Chamber, because in a situation where very many people are beginning to see that the man-made climate change is in full swing, a government budget for the next year is being drawn up in a situation where many voters and many of the representatives of the Stortinget were in a fuss, where it was more important to bring down the petrol tax by a little more than NOK 1 instead of investing properly in public transport. Now it seems that the voters might have wanted some political parties and some elected people who dared to go a little bit ahead, who dared to say from here: Look, there are more important tasks in the Norwegian economy and in Norwegian politics now than lowering the petrol price by NOK 1. Because it goes up too many what kind of climate change is going on. Yeah, we've got a party, then. It's SV, we're the only ones who didn't join the rush that the rest of us had to go into this summer. Many people have been concerned that we have a poverty problem in Norway – 70 000 poor children – a poverty in a welfare society that is primarily expressed by the fact that there are children in this country who cannot afford to participate in what most other children can afford to do, which means that in a society that is heavily influenced by a buying party, there are people who are kept out and who think it is shameful or embarrassing and who explain away. Children explain all of their parents wrong, if you put it on the head. What you even hear behind closed doors is, of course, a completely different matter. However, children are very loyal accomplices of the poverty they experience. You can do something about that! In one of the richest countries in the world you can do something about it, but the central parties didn't have it on their block when they negotiated with the Workers' Party, and the Workers' Party didn't have it on their block when they made a proposal for the State budget for next year. The budget agreement implies that the starting point of the Workers' Party, which is better on the distribution policy than what the Biggest One is actually going to adopt now, has contributed to the weakening of the centre parties. At the same time, the central parties have not drawn their demands into the environmental policy of the state budget with any particular emphasis. In the opinion of the SV, there has been a collection at the centre, where the worst-like part of the Labour Party's policy, namely environmental policy, and the worst-like part of the central party's policy, namely distribution policy, have been implemented. And what we don't think is using the possibilities in the country of opportunity. SV is now in the situation that we have a major political task to do in Norway. A great responsibility rests on us, because it is to the extent that we are able to challenge the centre parties and the Workers' Party on the common good and the standard in the public sector, that we can do just that. We're left with saying that it's among the top priority issues. And the reason why we do this is the following: the main policy of distribution in the future is to ensure that the vast majority of Norway ends up in a public sector with life and desire and wants to contribute, for example. to the school sector. Most people in Norway are not going to find themselves in a school standard that is significantly worse than the one you're used to at home. In the old days when poverty was much more prevalent in Norway than it is now, most children experienced a better standard at school than at home. At the time, some had such poor advice that they had to change shoes to go to school. It was pretty important. Now it's the standard of business buildings and everything in the private sector that it lights up, and that's better than most kids have at home, while public contributions are worse. It will not ensure the opening-up of the public sector in the future. That's why we have to make sure that the standard is raised. That job SV will do. When it comes to environmental issues, we are in the situation that the climate is changing. Everyone can see it, and no scientist can rule out that it has to do with anthropogenic emissions. Although you can enjoy good weather in the West, some people may start to worry when salmon eggs dry in. Climate researchers cannot give much hope of significantly improving the climate in the West in the future. On the contrary, it's going to calculate more where it already calculates a lot. In a small area around Bergen, it's going to be 40 pst. more in 2020 than now if climate scientists are right. It's just buying new umbrellas! Or you could do something about it. No country in Europe has managed to change the transport sector properly and offensively. In Norway, a policy for higher CO2 emissions will be pursued in the transport sector in 2001. At the same time, when the petrol charge is reduced and economic policies are being pursued to ensure that NSB stops routes, bus routes around many counties are closed down, the standard of public transport in large cities is that too many prefer private cars rather than bus and rail, there is a policy for increasing CO2 emissions. It is also terribly bad news for the environment that it has become known today that the Government will go in for the construction of a new gas power plant in Forest. It goes the wrong way – 2 million tonnes in increased CO2 emissions. That job must take responsibility for doing so in the future, and then it is not that you can at any time be the one going in for lower taxes and charges tomorrow, dinner and evening. Then it's just that the voters have to be challenged and mobilized, so that we do what's most important for the future. If not, our children inherit far greater problems in this field than we inherited from those who were before us. It's a responsibility for the future. When it comes to combating poverty, it is only we who are actually proposing what can be done next year if we are committed to combating poverty among children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e928	I think Kristin Halvorsen is quite right in saying that there is concern about the things we are now seeing that might indicate that there is a man-made climate change going on. Now the ratio is that the climate impacts that might seem a little dramatic, not just a Norwegian phenomenon, it's an international phenomenon. That is why I also believe that we all – perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party, as the only Norwegian party that has so far claimed that CO2 emissions are not a problem – must put the effort first and foremost on the international commitments. That is why we are concerned about what happened recently in The Hague, and it may also be the most important environmental policy task in Norway to strengthen our international efforts to get climate agreements in place. If it doesn't work out, it doesn't work out that way. Then, of course, there's a party political dispute, which we all know about, about gas power plants and other emissions in Norway, about what, in total, will be the best thing for climate solutions. We've had that debate many times, and we're going back to, so I don't want to bring it up here. But I also want to remind you that when it comes to emissions, for example. from car traffic, Norway has been created in such a way that many districts in the country will be disproportionately affected at high petrol prices. And even with the reduction in the tax that we get now, the petrol price doesn't get significantly cheaper. I think this is where it is, of course – and I respect it – clearly before many party political markings, but here I also believe that the task is so formidable that it calls for some cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e938	The President must ask that speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e941	Yes, it's quite right, as the representative Tom Thoresen says, that climate is an international challenge. If it rains a little bit more, it's just that people die of it in the poorer parts of the world. Being so much more violent that it has very dramatic consequences, and especially for the poorest part of the world's population, doesn't mean we don't have to do the homework ourselves. This means that the majority of the reductions that Norway has undertaken to accept must be done by ourselves here, because a policy cannot be pursued which will make it possible for the developing countries to buy more or less freely, and the developing countries to take the lead. It is very regrettable that the negotiations in The Hague broke down. We are not very impressed that Norway has not been able to run a more progressive race in connection with those negotiations. I hope we can discuss that in a separate debate later. Tom Thoresen says that our country is so made that it's hard to do something to get people to drive a smaller car. That's not true. Oslo is such that it is possible to bet on efficient public transport, and in Oslo, motorism has increased by 15 p.m.. from 1992 to 1998. It's going backwards. In the districts, there are many people who have no alternative. What we have to do is, like, SV has submitted a proposal to reduce the annual tax on cars for those living in the districts, who we respect has a greater need for a car than others, but do not reduce the fuel tax in Oslo and Akershus, so that we drive even more than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e950	The big difference between the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party is the belief in the individual, the individual. Where the Progress Party proposes strong tax relief for those who serve at least, the Socialist Left proposes an increase. The reason for this is, of course, that the Progress Party believes that the individual himself is able to choose, for example. the nature of the cultural offer to be used. Do you have to listen to a classic concert, or do you have to go to a pop concert? Do you have to attend a play, or do you have to go to a review show? On the other hand, SV wants to take money from people, so that they can choose on behalf of the population, for example. building an opera in Oslo. The same applies to childcare. The Progress Party concludes that parents should have freedom of choice as to whether to take care of the children themselves or whether to use the day-old mother or kindergarten. On the other hand, on behalf of parents, SV wants to choose to use kindergarten. The same applies to free choice of school. The party wants the students to choose which school to attend in cooperation with their parents. SV wants to choose on behalf of students and parents. This is called the Progress Party for guardianship and a lack of respect for the individual human being. SV doesn't think ordinary people are able to make their own decisions for themselves. We think that's a top imagery and a top and bottom attitude that's rough. My question to the Halvorsen is therefore: Who is the right to choose on behalf of the children? Is that SV, or are they the parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e959	Yeah, it was probably the last time I was in a school debate, that I heard a post in line with this line and about the same level of business. A few days ago, I got a phone call from a very despairing young woman in Oslo who said that now the price of my nursery is 600 kroner per day. month, and it's not certain that we can afford to have our kid there anymore. It's freedom, it's freedom! Had it been the Advance Party that would decide, that place would have been even more expensive. There had been impunity, that! When the Progress Party is talking about freedom, they're talking about a society where everyone is going to get one check from the state, and then you're going to have to go shopping on it. You have to get a school check if you have a kid in school. I could have sent my kids across the street in Oslo, and then they should have shopped somewhere. What most parents are concerned about is: do I get my kid into the nearest school? How can we help to make the nearest school, the local school, a good and safe place for our kids to be? We are not calling to be able to send our kids around town. We're calling for a safe local environment. It's because man is so delicate and well-made, that it can think of one revolution. And then there's a lot of people who think, and even more people who should think, that if we do some problems together, there'll be more freedom for everyone. In the meantime, the voters of the Advance Party can look forward to a freedom where they can drive around in a car, properly in line, with each check.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e973	Let me start by saying that in many ways I share Kristin Halvorsen's poverty description of the conditions in Norway today. It's very unworthy, and it should make some people learn how public is able to solve their core tasks in this society. We have the safety nets in place to take care of the disadvantaged, but we can't do it in the country that SV describes as a country flowing over milk and honey. The Norwegian economy is going on high. Then also gives Kristin Halvorsen the impression that the wallet is becoming a part of the body for most people. I'm not quite sure if that's right, but at least the owners of millions of wallets around this country are at all times busy keeping as much of the content as possible, so you'll be able to handle your own commitments. When we look at SV's draft budget, we see that this is more or less an attack on the personal wallet. It's an attack on the families of children, people in the establishment phase. It's a district enemy budget. SV says so beautifully: move the job, not the people. But they all contribute to attacks on competitive jobs. Not only does it apply to the short-term tax and the introduction of an electricity tax, no, in all respects it goes far beyond Stoltenberg and Bondevik's tax proposals. The question then has to be: Where do we find the competitive jobs in this country? This would be pretty interesting for most people to figure out. By and large, I would just like to say that it is an anti-business budget, with one exception: SV wants to remove the chocolate tax. This may indicate that there is chocolate Kristin Halvorsen wants to distribute to the voters in the upcoming election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e984	Yes, we expect the chocolate fee to be the most important and central issue in the next election campaign. The reason why SV is paying a lot of fees and proposing to remove them is that we have a charging system with some curious entries that can be explained historically, and not based on how it would have been wise to design a tax system today. Of course, the right is cordially welcome to be involved in cleaning it up. We want a tax system that leads to redistribution, which is fair, but which is otherwise targeted on the basis of environmental and health policy objectives. Otherwise the content of this line is customs and clothes and not true! It is simply that SV is the most nutritious party in Norway. And if you think about how to develop an industry for the future, you have to do your homework in environmental policy, because the companies that are unable to convert in time into environmental policy will go dolling. That is why, of course, there are some environmental taxes that businesses are protesting for the first time. But we have very good experience of them taking the challenges and being able to change gradually. It's about finding the exact pain point that leads to conversion. And that is sensible, forward-looking policy. It is SV that is set to replace the green knowledge economy with the black oil economy in the future. It's forward-looking and good business policy, so there's no contradiction here. And all who are engaged in business in the future should have just been very busy in school and education. And then they should be 100 pst. agree with SV in our proposal on research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e993	The President will refer to paragraph 38 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure on parliamentary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e996	There is reason to wonder about Kristin Halvorsen's reactions to the budgetary agreement between the Centre Party and the Labour Party. A person concerned with the environment could use a different choice of words when public transport is well strengthened and a number of measures have actually been allocated to the energy and environmental committee's budget. The local authority that is involved in distribution is debatable that the municipalities will actually get 1 250 million. kr more. Many difficult cuts can thus be avoided. It is also the case that there will be an additional strengthening because more resources have been put in for psychiatry, for the host municipalities, for quality measures in the youth sphere and for cultural action. The government had cut the budget by 160 million. kr. It's reversed. It's actually a better distribution to say that disability and old-age pensioners get this bump back. Most surprising is the Center Party over the outcome to halved food moms. We actually believed Kristin Halvorsen was aware that cheaper food and exemption from VAT on passenger traffic means more for low-income households than for those who think the most, whether they are self-employed or child-rich. In the evening post on Sunday, Kristin Halvorsen, under the heading «Sweary in SV», says that she should «be better at negotiating her heart matters with the other parties on the Stortinget, including the Center Parties and the Right. This is a prerequisite for achieving more influence in Norwegian policy.’ Has she come closer to this goal with the tone she has put in the financial debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1011	It is possible that the representative Meltveit Kleppa and the undersigned must have an early reconciliation meeting, but it is therefore not possible to strengthen the public sector and the matters that I have talked about, simply by walking around and boasting of crumbs that the centre parties have brought together with the Workers' Party. I'm sorry, but then SV doesn't get any results. And I like to do it in a tone that can challenge and lice in relation to the center parts. No, SV has given a different priority. The centre parties have their priorities. SV has given a different priority. Our budget option would mean a much higher level of ambition in the municipal sector and the common good than the centre parties have put in. And that's simply because we believe that if we don't get the standard of what many people think is most important, the service offer is bad. But it's also going to be that many people don't want to find it, and they want to look for privatized and commercial solutions. We think that's a bad way to go. Also in public transport, SV's proposal is much better. SV suggests zero on public transport. This means that on public transport you get deductions, while the comparison means that you have exemptions. This is a worse proposal. SV has a hard job to do in Norwegian politics. I'd like to do it in such a tone that the Center Party and SV are in a good dialogue, but we feel a very great responsibility for using the opportunities you have in the country of opportunity, on what is most important for the future. [[The President clubs.]] Environmental policy is then more important than reducing petrol prices, and then common goods are more important than reducing VAT on food.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1022	It is also important to keep speaking time!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1025	I record that the SV manager is dissatisfied with the fact that her party has little influence in Norwegian politics. It is understandable, not least in view of the impact that the Left and the other central parties have received in the budget. SV's lack of influence is not primarily due to the situation in Norwegian policy, it is due to the situation of SV. A party designated by NATO for the Socialist Republic is easily at the sideline of Norwegian policy. So the main problem of SV is not a periodic error with which it is easy to do something, but the general condition and position of the lot. Also, when looking at the reactions to the budgetary agreement that have been reached, they clearly show that SV wants to be a seminar party. The practical world of budgetary negotiations is not understood. From a number of quarters, the central parties have been recognised for the changes made in an environmentally sound direction in the budget. In total, including public transport, there is now talk of moving money into environmental measures of over half a billion dollars. In addition, there are a number of concrete proposals that help to draw on a completely different environmental profile in the budget than in the past. So it's like this with the gas price that's the big anchor point. The petrol price will, after this agreement, come back to the level SV was satisfied with when we dealt with the budget for 2000. My question is, When did SV move as much money in an environmentally sound direction in a budget debate as the centre parties have now received? And when SV increased the funding for colleges and universities by 270 million. kr in a budgetary settlement, as the centre parties have now obtained?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1039	I have a lot of understanding that Kvassheim is trying to shout loudly. Because it must be awfully embarrassing for a party that has taken the aim of being the environmental party on the civil side of Norwegian policy, that the Left also joined the drag sucker and the gasoline rush because strong industrial interests were being pushed on this summer. It is simply not strange that you try to shout so loud that the redness does not appear completely through the screen. It's embarrassing! We are terribly disappointed with the Left in this matter. Because if we're going to be able to get to the big environmental transformations that are actually needed, there's someone who has to dry up when everyone else loses his head and thinks that the most existential question in our time is whether the gas price is going down by a dollar or a little bit more, as the situation was this summer. But then the left jumped and hid. That's not an environmental party! I'm sorry, of course, it's possible to improve and change in the future, but that's not an environmental party. Then you need a little courage, even when it comes to it. We should have had a much larger impact in SV, much greater impact. And that's exactly why we're now appealing to the voters and saying that if we're going to change environmental policy, it depends on SV's strength. If we are to do something about poverty problems in Norway, it depends on the strength of the SV. If we're going to do something for the common good, we're dependent on people agreeing with us, that we have the strength to negotiate to get the most out of it. We've done that sometimes before, maybe especially in education policy, but we have a level of ambition far greater than this, and much higher than that of the Left, obviously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1046	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1049	In the spring, someone wondered what the Workers' Party would do in government. What were the visions? What was our direction? In the state budget, we give answers: a massive commitment to the community, to the common good. Never before have we spent more on health than in this budget. Never before have we put more effort into caring for those who need it. And never before have we put more effort into education than what we're going to do in 2001. The voters often think that we politicians must be more concerned with action than with talk. I agree. They've been talking about more money for the school; our budget gives municipalities billions to benefit from the schools. They've been talking about free books in high school; next fall students will save thousands of dollars in book purchases. They've been talking about lifelong learning; the budget is 50 million. more to the major reform of competences. They've been talking about ICT in school; the budget is 100 million. kr more for investment only in 2001. It means more to new equipment, more to modern learning materials and more to build up the knowledge and competence of teachers. Without skilled teachers, we never get a good school. That's why we have to recruit the best. You've been talking about a good teacher's salary, a better teacher's salary; we've made sure that teachers get NOK 30,000 more in salary, someone up to NOK 50,000 more. Helga Hjetland said in the newspaper on 1 July: ‘Here, the Workers’ Party has done a great job and followed up promises with concrete action.’ I find it difficult to disagree. Sometimes it is said that there is no difference between the parties in Norway. But the debate on the state budget reveals a fundamental difference, deeper than small percentages in some budget lines. The right parties often talk about individual freedom. But what kind of freedom is what they choose to take care of? Well, it's the freedom of the highly paid from contributing more to the community, the freedom of one generation to exploit natural values conserved through millions of years, the freedom of the world's richest country to avoid helping the world's poorest. The Labour Party and the Centre choose in the budgetary conciliation to work for more important freedoms: freedom for all children to enter a school leisure system regardless of their parents' finances, freedom for all to afford to be at home from work when they are ill, freedom for people in poor countries to receive vaccines and basic education. It's our freedoms, and it's a different kind of freedom than what the right-hand side is talking about. The right-hand side says that they stand for freedom for the individual. That's not what they do, in reality they stand for freedom for individuals. We want a good district policy. Right and Forward Party Cuts in the Transfers. We're increasing aid to the poorest in the world; the right parties are reducing it. We want to strengthen the common good; the right side weakens it. We will give opportunities and freedom for all, not just for the few. That is why I am pleased that the Labour Party and the Centre have once again agreed on the state budget for Norway. For the second consecutive year, what we are making up the majority, and not just a majority by means of a subsidiary vote, but through an overall consensus on an overall budget. In fact, only three times in the last 15 years have the centers found together with the Right and the Advance Party. It's in cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre we get a majority for higher education. That's where we create a majority for a strong and active people's church, that's where we create a majority of billions devoted to research, that's where we can create a majority for a common school bet, for an equivalent education offer for everyone. And that's where we create that budget and that majority without sending the bill to young people in the start-up phase through higher interest rates, or taking from the next generations by eating from the oil fund. That is why I hope that this budgetary agreement will point forward, and that we are now using the majority we have in this Chamber to create a fairer distribution, a more solidarity policy and more forward-looking solutions than those offered by the right-wing parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1066	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1069	The Council of State has contributed to an increase in the appropriations for qualifying pre-school courses at universities and higher education institutions in this country. The party of progress does not doubt that there is a great need for these courses all the time when basic training does not maintain the necessary quality. The need for a general qualification course confirms this view, which appears to be rooted both in surveys from Norway and from abroad, and especially since our students no longer have carte blanche to apply for studies abroad. Especially worrying is it within mathematics, there's only 15 pst. has the required immersion of at least one year on the intermediate stage. The high demand for Norwegian education is a quality anchoring of school contents and the benefits of pupils, regardless of their parents’ economics or wealth relationships, and not to the same extent the school leisure system, which appears to be a major point. The Progress Party knows that the Council of State is more concerned with the organisational framework measures. This is where the Council of State emphasises its so-called development of the Norwegian school. When will the Council of State focus on the content and quality of the teacher-to-teacher dialogue? Does the Council of State see that a better professional quality improves the student's benefits from schooling, while saving individual students and society from unnecessary costs of pre-qualification when admitted to higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1080	I share Mr Evje's commitment to the contents of school. Of course, we need to focus on quality, we need to have good feedback from the students on how they experience their learning situation, we need to have participation, we need to be responsible for our own learning, for the development of equipment and the content of pedagogics. But then I don't think it's a solution to go back to the old catheter education, for which the Progress Party has made itself a spokesman. There is no solution, as is stated in the Progress Party's programme, to have a strong increase in 'punishment, retrial and expulsion', to introduce grades from the fifth grade, or to remove the right of 16-year-olds to attend high school. There is a fundamental gap between the education policy that the Workers' Party stands for and the one that the Progress Party stands for. Quality is for me that every student is given a chance to develop and their opportunities based on the starting point, to get adapted education in a community with other students. But then the school has to be allocated resources, and then it is not possible, as the Progress Party has done in the 2001 draft budget, to reduce the education appropriations by nearly DKK 1 billion compared to what the Centre and the Workers' Party have now reached – SEK 200 million. SEK at SFO, 200 million. in the case of linguistic minorities, remove all support for the cultural schools, cut schools, cut unions, etc. Then we have to use resources in school, only in that way we can get quality. I would like to take part in discussions with the representative, Evje, on how to get to the quality, how to make demands on our schools, on our teachers and on our students, but also on how to give them enough resources to give them the opportunities they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1089	The Council of State wants action in the field of education policy, and I agree with him there. He also drew up good examples, focusing on teachers and ICT, for which there is a cross-political consensus. But where was the State Council’s capacity for action in the field of higher education and research? The university and higher education sectors are important for basic research and recruitment. Universities and higher education institutions are responsible for basic research. A commitment at universities and colleges is therefore a commitment to basic research, and they are also responsible for ensuring us well-qualified people in business and social life. A main criticism of the government budget has been that research and higher education were not a priority. Some have said that the government's draft budget is the worst university budget of the time. State councils will not comment on that, but the criticism points to the lack of priority of higher education and hence basic research. In budgetary work, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to ensure basic research and to start stepping up research up to the average OECD level. We are increasing the appropriations for the higher education sector by over 250 million. kr. We're increasing the research fund's reserve by half a billion dollars more than the government had provided. A commitment to research and higher education is a commitment to the future. My question to the Council of State is: Is he happy with a budget agreement that prevents the decline of the university and higher education sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1102	I accept that institutions and others in a budgetary situation use different expressions to ‘lobby’ for their interests and get the most out of the Storting. However, when one characterises the education budget for higher education as the worst of the times, then one lacks basic knowledge of Norwegian education history. In fact, at least with the budget compromise of the Centre and the Workers' Party, it is the best education budget of the time for higher education. Never before have we spent as much money on higher education as we are going to do in 2001. But what I think is interesting is that in the seven to eight months since they've been in government, the center parties have fundamentally changed. What was just fitting or more than enough when they were in government, has now become too small. When Stortinget decided that the Research Fund should have DKK 10 – 15 billion by 2005, the centre parties were reluctant. Now we've increased the fund by $4 billion in half a year, to $7 billion. We're way ahead of the route. So the center thinks it's way too small, and it's going to add another half a billion dollars. Then the center made a $900 million school package. kr in four years, and we're bringing in a budget of 100 million. kr over it – $1 billion in four years – then suddenly the opposition center says it's too small, and adds another few million kroner. The same applies to higher education. If we had continued Lilletun's education budget in terms of higher education, with the cuts that were already in place and that had to be adjusted accordingly into the budgets afterwards, we would have come out about the same level as the Workers' Party provided. Of course, there is no specialist council that has anything against getting any additions in Stortinget as long as it takes place within a responsible framework. But to characterize our education policy and research policy as standing back to the center stood for, I don't think it's in line with the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1111	It's probably not just the center that's changing. It then occurs that men in the best circles change from opposition to government position. The councils were concerned with talking, and no one talked more about the importance of investing in research than the Workers' Party when we dealt with the Research Communication. Then came a long intermesso, where the government did not agree with itself on which state council would be responsible for the research. That may have been why the Council of State in its otherwise glowing article forgot the research and buried it in silence. The truth is, the government has chosen neither - nor. Neither the Minister of Industry nor the Minister of Education and Research has done anything to follow up the objective of the Workers' Party itself to define when we dealt with the Research Communication. Norway’s Research Council has found that the Government’s proposals would be best placed to march in line with the objective of achieving average OECD countries — at best. In the worst case, distance would have increased. Fortunately, the comparison with the center has improved the worst aspects of this, among other things. The collapse of the university budgets, which University Director Rommetveit in Bergen has characterised as the most serious in his time as University Director. Now the Council of State declared without further ado that it was the majority, with the centre, who ensured that billions were devoted to research. I have to remind you that the Right has proposed a SEK 1⁄2 billion more than the deal goes on. The Right Party and the Labour Party jointly established this fund. I have another question. This agreement has led to the correction of the Government's attempts at consistent discrimination between private schools and higher education institutions in terms of wage compensation and in terms of appropriations. The Council of State itself declares in the last issue of the School Focus that he is the opponent of all private schools, because they result in uniformity. Does this mean that the Government and the Workers' Party are now involved in the unification?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1124	Let me do the last one first. We are following the pay compensation scheme that the Bondevik government followed before us, in terms of our contribution to the State budget. I have not expressed to the school focus that I am against all private schools: on the contrary - I have actually approved up to several private schools in my Council of State, and of course I must also relate to the law that this room has set. So it's not like I've somehow changed my perception of the privatisation of Norwegian school. So to research in relation to OECD level. Public research efforts in Norway are not lagging behind the OECD level. There we are, in fact, about on the level of the OECD. Where we are far behind, we are in private research, and there we have put measures into the state budget to stimulate it. This does not mean that we are not going to increase public research in the future, because because of our industrial structure, we probably need to have a greater public effort in research than other countries. As far as the Research Fund is concerned, we are far ahead of the escalation plan set by Stortinget. If I continue at the pace that I have had in my Council of State on the construction of the Research Fund, in 2005, we will not have a fund of between 10 and 15 billion kroner. Then we want a research fund of SEK 40 billion, so there we are, I would say, relatively well on track. It's okay that the Right beats his chest over his research and education efforts. But one of the first things I did as a state councillor was to visit Zambia. There I saw schools built for Norwegian aid money, to give the kids four years in primary school. There I saw schools built for Norwegian aid money, to provide teachers with continuing training or qualifications. There I saw children's homes built for Norwegian aid money, to train kids about HIV and AIDS, because one million children are without parents because of the AIDS epidemic. Then it's quite doubtful to see that the Right pays its educational effort to take from the very poorest, actually three times as much as they beat their breasts when it comes to investing in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1133	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1137	The treatment of this budget shows that the central parties are the crossroads of power politics in Norwegian policy. The good solutions can be found in the center. When the Labour Party, in its draft budget, left-hand side, and the right-hand side even further to the right in its alternatives, it has given a large space for the centre of Norwegian policy. There is in this room the solution for the 2001 budget has been found. A government proposal has rarely been worse, and it has rarely been necessary to move on to such large sums in a budgetary procedure. It was precisely Norway's record in budgetary changes to give an acceptable profile to a disastrous budget for jobs, innovation and the environment. The Centre has gone on a long budget run with the Workers' Party. The budget agreement involves re-priorities of nearly 22 billion kroner. It is not surprising that central labour party politicians are more satisfied, at least in important areas, with the budgetary agreement than with their own proposal. The agreement does not in any way imply that the Centre and the Workers' Party are two clear government options. On the contrary, the large impact of the centre shows that it has been strengthened as an alternative to the Workers' Party. The two right-wing parties have this year set themselves apart from any cooperation through their supplementary budgetary options. While the Right in Oslo came to a meeting with the Left by agreeing to spend SEK 1.6 billion on public transport in the next few years, the Right on the Stortinget chooses the opposite strategy. Brutal cuts in public transport and culture, in aid to the world's poorest, in sick pay and in district and industrial development, in municipalities and welfare, etc. excludes in this budget cooperation with the right parties of all other batches. This budget means that the Left and the Centre have had an impact on several important long-term changes. The government budget is important through the priorities that take place from year to year. But even more important is the long-term leadership put into the budget. The removal of the investment tax is such a large, long-term boost for innovative Norway, for all the new enterprises to finance the welfare of the coming years. Another important reform is the large tax conversion for which the Left and Centre have been implemented, to be introduced from 2002. The reform involves a much simpler and fairer tax system, with flat taxes and the removal of the sharing model. We can thus ensure the business and value creation of the future. A new tax system with reduced marginal taxes and increased deductions will increase the supply of work and make it more profitable to work. At the same time, neutrality is maintained in the tax system, with equal taxation of different types of capital income. Strong increases in the deductions will primarily benefit those with the lowest income. This will ensure better distribution and social profile in the tax system. Centre penetration also means a real boost to research and innovation. It's worth over 300 million. kr more in universities, colleges and research. Furthermore, the budgetary agreement provides for a strong stepping-up of the environment. Passenger traffic avoids VAT and electric cars receive a zero rate. It's worth 190 million. kr for upgrading public transport and well over 100 million. on other environmental measures and energy savings. The result has also improved significantly for the established business community. The industry and voluntary Norway are releasing the increase in the employer’s contribution from the Workers’ Party. Removal of the share discount and the 80 pst rule have been reversed. The main differences in the split model have been avoided. A growing and important industry such as tourism avoids VAT. This ensures jobs throughout Norway. The roll-out of Norway profiling is stepped up. Furthermore, the municipal economy is strengthened by 1 250 million. kr. It'll be good over 100 million. more about culture and voluntary Norway. Road investment is increasing and ferry tariffs are being reduced. The market has responded positively to this budgetary agreement. The tightness is maintained, and it facilitates the avoidance of interest rate increases. No tightening up seems more unsocial than an increase in interest rates, and preventing a new increase in interest rates is good distribution policy. Today, Norway has a high shortage of labour. Left will open up for increased work immigration. We want an honest door to Norway, where those who want to create a better life here with us must be able to live as full citizens. This budget is a victory for the will to find good solutions for the sake of the country. The central parties have established their central position in Norwegian policy as the natural government option. The left and centre parties have shown in government and as the responsible opposition that we can rule, and we are willing to take responsibility for the best of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1171	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1174	There's a lot of evidence, at least when a reader reads some newspapers, that the left sometimes wants to be a mini-right in terms of business and business conditions. Statements by the Left-leader also show that the Right-wing policy in many areas is echoed in the Left-wing. But according to a line round here in Stortinget today, the relationship between Right and Left is probably not so good after what happened last spring. From the government taboo, Sponheim has been involved in cooperation with both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party. What I'm concerned about is finding out who the Left really thinks it's best to cooperate with in terms of distribution policy. I know that when it comes to business policy, or business policy, the Left seems to be able to work with the Right and the Advance Party. But in terms of distribution policy – to get a better system of distribution between rich and poor in this country – who would the Left would like to work with? Then I think the representative used a little strong terms when it came to this budget. It was the worst, and it was «catastrophe». Now, I guess if we've moved 1.5 billion dollars or 22 billion dollars -- we couldn't agree on that -- it's a very small percentage of the budget. Does that mean that the Left agrees to support a 95 pst. a disastrously poor budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1183	The left has never been a Mini-Right. It has been of the ruling techniques that have been used by currently larger parties in this hall. Because there are significant differences on the Left and the Right, not least in the view of the Community sector and how to use the country when it is right to use the country. The left has no fear of state. On the other hand, it is true that here are the tangential areas, as expressed by the replicator, in view of the need for us to have a strong value-creating sector that is able to take on the tasks of providing the income side of society. There hope and think we have some in common with the Right. Then there are issues about the distribution policy, which I think are very central, and which are much more important for the Left than part of the opposition to the Left wants to present it as, because we are engaged in a real distribution. That is why we have been very committed to convergence of tax rates on labour income and investment income. There we believe that we have the greatest and most unreasonable differences in Norwegian society today – two comparable incomes that come from interest, or return on capital, and work, are completely different tax rates. There have been policies of the Left for many, many years — now more and more are becoming involved. We hope and believe that the budgetary agreement can be a breakthrough, when a majority, including the Workers' Party, has said that they want to present a tax reform that approximates these tax rates. Then there are questions about the use of words and changes in the budget. It is at least a fact that in order to reconcile with the centre of these budgetary negotiations, it was necessary to make historical changes to the original proposal. Of course, something can be explained by the fact that the government chose to present a severe VAT reform at the same time as the state budget – I admit it. But I just remember that the cover charge – or the entrance ticket – at the negotiation party at Plaza was $18.3 billion, and I think that's a historic figure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1192	Sponheim referred to the budget of the Progress Party as an additional alternative. I just have to say that I'm proud to be able to represent an alternative to the social-democratic power block we're now seeing that the center has become part of. Yesterday, however, the spokesperson for the Left from this speaker said about the tax on shares: 'Those who have not understood how to avoid it do not deserve better'. Does it mean that the Left believes that they have been sitting in a budgetary settlement and made a tax on dividends that you really don't think want to raise any additional income to the state, that it is easy to ignore this, if you are smart enough, as Terje Johansen tried to present it as? But now it is such that Sponheim, when he was in government, and before he was in government, was very concerned about improving the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, among others. by reducing red tape. In the context of this budgetary agreement, the Centre has pushed forward a differentiated electricity charge which means that many small and medium-sized enterprises now need to install new meters and carry out mass checks to distinguish between power used for production and power used for administration, as these have to be charged differently. Is it predictable in Sponheim's view and an improvement of the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises? And this with predictability: Kjell Magne Bondevik said in reply with me earlier today that since we adopt taxes and taxes every year, it was strange that I criticized the center of the tax aggravation of the times. However, it is now time for the Progress Party at least to propose significant tax reductions, which will improve the framework conditions for business. Now that the centre has entered into a budgetary settlement that provides for the strengthening of the tax era, and also means retrospectively, does Sponheim think that this is predictable for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1203	The representative, Siv Jensen and I, obviously very much agree on one thing, and that is that the policy of the Progress Party is an extreme alternative and is far from the moderate and necessary adjustments and solutions that Norway needs and, in my opinion, provides the necessary predictability. To this end, there are also many opinions from different teams on what changes it would lead to in Norwegian society. Then it was quoted from Terje Johansen's posts yesterday. Yeah, what did he really say? He said that once a temporary dividend tax has been imposed for a year, it is up – at least for the vast majority – to the individual to choose whether to charge dividends, or leave his own money standing and building equity in the enterprise in which he owns or shares. It's really the option you're facing. The government has also said in its own proposal that it is going to be a adaptation, and adjusted the proceeds significantly in relation to the current year without dividend tax, because many will choose the legal option of leaving the money in the company they own, which may be desirable by building equity in that way. It's the most common way to build equity, in the intermesso that is, until we get a better and more robust and fair tax system that takes care of neutrality between different forms of savings, which has been the background for Left's involvement in the debate around this with dividend tax. Not because we don't think that the few who have large capital incomes are going to pay more taxes, but we don't have to put ourselves in a society where savings are moving away from the most sensible savings, that's the one that's in the companies, and on others, and on society, that's what's worse. I think we'll get back to that track when this temporary period is over. In the meantime, some equity can be built in the companies, and that is not harmful to the many. I am not aware that there has been a differentiated electricity charge through this budgetary agreement. It's a full electricity tax rate, and it's an exemption. There is a somewhat different border in the companies between what gets the exemption and what gets the electricity tax. That would mean two meters. It doesn't seem very difficult to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1212	I can agree with Sponheim in one thing: there is no reason to use the term "Mini-Right" on the left of the day. When it was once used as a concept – also by right-wing people, I think – it was in mention of what was then called the Liberal People's Party or the New People's Party, or different variants of it. But it was something else, and it was a long time ago. I understand that the representative Sponheim was in a bad mood this morning. In the change of line with Right President Jan Petersen, he succeeded in describing the Right's proposal for tightening up the health pay system as highly unsocial. Then I just have to remind him of the program formulations he himself has made, namely a tightening of the health pay scheme with three qualifying days of 70 pst. wages and salaries. His strongest cooperation party, the Christian People's Party, has suggested two karendays with the same effect as the Three of Right together. So I would like to challenge the representative Sponheim to elaborate a little over the concept of'strongly unsocial arrangements' in terms of the proposals that he and the cooperation parties have agreed to. Otherwise, I would also like to be allowed to ask the representative Sponheim to elaborate on its wording that the dynamic effect of extending the VAT base to the service area could be brought in in 2002 so that it can finance the removal of the investment tax. If I understood him correctly in an interview with Today's Business, he suggested that the dynamic effects should actually be sufficient to finance these 6-7 billions, plus what is not financed by VAT, the reduction in food products for the rest – i.e. in total approx. 10 billion kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1221	I can cancel the rumors that have obviously reached out to Oslo's inner west that I should have been in a bad mood this morning. I was definitely not, but I found it necessary to make clear that there are things that are not related to the actual Right Policy and their rhetoric that they want government cooperation with central parties. So to the question of sick pay. Now I've heard for days after the conciliation that the Right has swung over the center parts to send the bill to most people, and it's been suggesting something over 10 billion kroner. The right alternative budget takes into account, as far as I can remember, NOK 5.75 billion in a significant increase in the health pay system at a time when all good forces in Norway are trying to achieve a consensus in this area around very moderate solutions, cf. the selection led by former Labour Party State Council Sandman, which produced a very good result — such as: The NHO also supported. Unfortunately, LO doesn't do it, but it'll be a very moderate and necessary adjustment of a health pay scheme that needs to be done with, because these costs are growing us all over the head. And then right-step into this glass shop with elephant foot, and make this debate much more difficult. $6 billion is a dramatic and significant tax on disease among most people, and it's much more than what the Left has agreed to, which has the clearly most moderate proposal of those who want a change in the current ageing period, with a conservative proportion of 30 pst. only in the three self-declaration days, and which have some proceeds that are very small, but which will have the important adaptations that you have been in. My main point has been to say that the conversions that come into the VAT system, with a much broader basis for all the new service areas that we do not know today, but we know we will spend our private money on in the future, will provide a whole new foundation for the state's revenue. And I think the dynamic effects are underestimated. The size of them for 2002 remains to be seen, but the long-term effects of this will allow the country to obtain a completely different and significant source of income, hopefully to replace some of the taxes we currently have on income and employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1230	Just for the record: I did not say that the alternative of the Progress Party was extreme, it was Sponheim who said. What I said, on the other hand, was that it is good that at least there are alternatives in this room that want a different policy, and that are more entrepreneurial and more prepared to give people greater freedom of choice than the Left now does together with the Workers' Party. In my previous reply, I asked Sponheim questions about predictability related to giving a number of tax decisions retrospectively, which are now being done through this budgetary agreement. For many years, the Left has tried to be the warm defender of predictable framework conditions and stability for small and medium-sized enterprises. And then I don't understand how the Left can now defend that in a late night in a budget settlement one ends up reducing the write-offs and giving them retroactive power, which is exactly the basis for increasing corporate taxation. Because that's what's real. In addition, the proposal on the dividend tax has also been accepted retroactively back to 1992 for changes to the RISK rules. It also does the left, despite the fact that they're talking about predictability. At least I thought it was predictable that the main lines of fiscal policy would be at least somewhat fixed for one year at a time, and that this was the whole purpose of tax and tax decisions every harvest. If you are going to make changes to it, at least those changes should be of a relief character – that is, you wanted to do it better for someone – but when you make it considerably worse, with retroactive force, I would like to see an extension of whether the Left believes this is predictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1237	Now let's take with us the close past. The Labour Party government put forward a proposal for a government budget that made business react in a way that we have barely seen before. So what do you do? Do you cultivate your pure thoughts and go to the chamber and are self-satisfied with it, or do you go in and fold up your sleeves and try to do a job for business? Who is the business that should thank today when the tourism industry is satisfied? They dropped VAT on the travel services. They left short-term rates in an labour-intensive industry with profits, but it represents many jobs. We have also received an increase and a bet in line with the travel life message regarding Norway’s profiling. Who should thank business? Is it those who had the pure thoughts other than doing a job, or are we the ones who actually went in and made significant improvements? Together, we can take the process industry, which through the budgetary agreement actually got improved results. Who is it that they should thank for this job? Are those who had pure thoughts, but in themselves were not in the position to influence the result, or are we the ones who did a job for these companies? I have no doubt that politics is about moving policy in the right direction through practical work and being in a position to influence a majority result. We've done that job. That the central parties isolated in some areas could have intended to use their forces at a different 0 point than minus NOK 18-20 billion, which we got from the labor party government, is now, but that's the political reality we have to deal with. That a medal like this has a backside in some contexts, and that the opposition can choose to cultivate in a situation like this, is a reality, and we're not hiding it. To get a lot of sweet, we also have to accept something sour. It is also in this budget, both towards ordinary taxpayers and towards businesses, but dramatically less than what had been the alternative, and that is what politics is all about in my world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1246	I think Sponheim is into something right when he in a couple of posts has suggested that the difference on the Right and the Left is about political practice as well. I am now recording that the Left will take credit for removing the proposal for an electricity tax on the process industry, a fee that has been an avid follower on a number of previous occasions. I guess that's what they call sanctuary. But back to the point of view of the sickness pay scheme. Both the Right and the Left have in their programmes, together with the Christian People's Party, a desire to tighten the benefits of the sick pay scheme. Then I think it's an honest political practice to suggest it. The left boasts that they have it in their program, but I'm not familiar with the Left on a single occasion during this period suggested it. I don't think it's the greatest virtue to hide their positions that way and also try to cashe in on both sides, i.e. some form of sanctuary. So Sponheim is talking about us stepping in with proposals that are disturbing, etc. Now I don't want to completely rule out that we, who have been drivers to do something about the sickness pay scheme, actually have part of the credit for reducing a sample. This selection failed to unite the parties in a solution that I think there is every reason to recommend, but the parties could not. Then one must finally have a political will to cut through and not just sit and wait until others solve it for you. This is not the way to deal with political programme obligations, in our view of political practice at least. With my question about the investment tax and the dynamic effect of extending VAT, I was basically looking to ask whether Sponheim really believes that the dynamics work so strongly in the technological field that within a year you will get enough, in other words, 10 billion kroner, to cover the removal of the investment tax and reduced food consumption on a full-year basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1258	There is definitely a difference between the Left and the Right in political practice. That's what this harvest shows. Where we have made billions of improvements for Norwegian companies, the Right has cried out loud. It is a different policy practice. I think it's very sad, because the best thing in the Right should have been on a team that was closer to the policy realities than what we've experienced this fall and in and of itself for years now. Then the representative Foss claims that electricity taxation in industry has been important left-wing policy. Then I have to explain a context. Year after year, I have stood alone in this pulpit, when I was alone here in the Chamber from the Left, and went for a solution with an electricity tax on industry for a period when the same industry had greatly reduced prices through political regulations. When they were not willing to make important contributions to power generation and environmental issues through the normal price, as consumers had to, but were granted very cheaply, on average 9 øre for the entire industry that received policy-determined prices, the Left considered it right to apply for an electricity charge. And then we actually did it. What we were alone about, has now been adopted policy, that industry must enter the market and buy. Also PIL representatives who have separated me for years later, while I was Minister of Industry, have come and said that we were right on that issue. It was right to get market-determined prices, also for industry. Then the question of an electricity tax to the industry comes in a completely different situation. This is the consequence, and I also know that the industry believes it is consistent. The question of sick pay – absolutely no sanctuary. It is a reality that the Left has advocated a moderate embellishment of the health pay provisions. It is true that this was not a political basis for the previous government. We still mean it. Now we think it's right to go for a moderate change in line with the Sandman committee. Now I understand that Foss also supports the Sandman Committee's position on sick pay. That means he needs $6 billion in the budget he has put forward to balance it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1269	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1272	The current budget confirms the message of the Declaration of Accession of Norway by Prime Minister Stoltenberg as the country of opportunity. The government's draft budget responds precisely to the challenges facing a modern welfare society, how to preserve fundamental social rights while also developing the welfare services and the public sector in a global economy. In the debate, many from the political right have argued that Norway is moving in the opposite direction with other countries. On some other premises I'll give them right. Because, unlike other countries, we continue to develop welfare services, fences on employee rights and other social and economic citizens' rights. Where other countries are building up public welfare services and social reforms, we are building them up. Major ambitions on continuing education, full childcare, elderly reform, psychiatry plan and cancer plan are being implemented, while maintaining the scope of pensions, health pay schemes and parental leave schemes. This development has been successful, while we have had a low unemployment rate, a relatively low interest rate and low inflation rates, unlike in many other countries. This has been possible, for example: through the solidarity option and income policy cooperation, which has facilitated business, moderate wage developments for workers and in return: social reforms and job security. The working party wants to continue this pact. In this cooperation, the prerequisites for further development of the welfare of potential countries are: However, if this pact is to continue, the distribution of goods as well as burdens must be experienced as well as fair. The last payroll gave an indication of the workers’ experience of unfairness. The wage earners' no to the outcome of the wage settlement negotiations was probably as much a protest against business leaders and a corporate culture in which sky-high management salaries and bold parachutes imprinted the picture with a picture of the same managers' wealth structure and private consumption, as against the wage settlement itself. The Stortinget focused on the inequalities in society, on the policy of distribution and on the objective of a fairer distribution of goods. A majority concluded that a strong public sector, together with a fair tax system, was a necessary tool to achieve this objective. This budget must therefore also be understood as a follow-up to the Equalisation Communication. It is only through a strong public sector that the whole population will be able to participate in the social goods – without depending on the size of the wallet. With the growing welfare provision in the budget – the ageing plan, the cancer plan, the equipment plan, social security expenditure – there is also a growth in the budget of billions of dollars. This must be financed. Therefore, the country's income base must also be increased. The tax policy must therefore serve two purposes. It shall also ensure sufficient revenue to contribute to economic redistribution. Today, we experience great differences in the income and consumption base of those who live on their labour income and those who live on property, business and share income. In part, we experience an abundance of private consumption, while in the public sector there are major shortcomings in school, health and other areas. The government's draft budget is just taking these matters into account. The government, with its draft budget, demonstrates a clear willingness to pay for welfare development. Through a tax conversion, the income of an enlarged country and thus the potential to further develop the well-being of some. DKr 12 billion. On the one hand, this has been done through increased taxation of economic activities, and on the other hand, it has a broader and sustainable income base by extending VAT to services. VAT is one of the main sources of funding for our welfare services. As our service consumption continues to grow, it is necessary that this too be captured. It is therefore gratifying that after so many years of talking about the introduction of VAT on services, we have got this reform in place together with the centre parties. The government's proposal also involves a strong redistribution of the tax burden, so that those with the highest income are tax-enhancing, while those with lower income are protected. In particular, it is the proposal for an increase in the tax on dividends and a tightening of the sharing model that provides a tax regime with a clear distribution profile. Even after the budgetary agreement, they will be reduced with low and medium income or approximately unchanged tax, while with income between 450 000 and 600000 in gross income they will receive an average tax increase of approximately. $1,200. On the other hand, the group that has more than NOK 600 000 in gross income receives an average tax increase of NOK 13 000. In the government's arrangement, the tax consolidation for those with over 600,000 dollars would be almost double. With the introduction of the sharing model, one tried to find a fairer tax system through a model that would ensure that entrepreneurs and active owners were treated in the same way as employees. However, in the following years there have been a number of changes that have contributed to the erosion and a tendency for labour income to be converted into capital income and thus to receive a more favourable tax. The need for narrowing in the split model is obvious. However, in the budgetary agreement with the central parties, we have not been able to endorse the Government's proposal for tightening up the sharing model with regard to the roof rules for non-liberal professions, nor for proposals for tightening the identification rules. On the other hand, the Government’s proposal to reduce the risk add-on and limits on the capital return base has been continued in the budget agreement – which would mean a reduction of 240 million. kr. Taxes on dividend dividends have taken into account some of the greatest distributive unfairness. That 5 pst. of the shareholders receive 90 pst. of the dividend, says something about an unfairness. With some modifications, the centre parties have given their support to this. The proposal for a general business cycle fee of 1.5 pst. has been replaced, inter alia, by the budgetary agreement; tightening of depreciation rules for industry and its own business cycle tax on industrial buildings. These measures provide much of the same consideration for the dampening of private sector activity as the government’s proposal for a short-term cyclical tax. Over the 1990s, the tax system has had an unfortunate development, making changes necessary. The government announces such a review in the context of the 2002 budget. The budgetary agreement emphasises that such a review shall be based on the following principles: convergence of taxes on labour and capital, so that the divisional model can be abolished an effective taxation of capital income more equitable distribution of neutrality between different forms of investment, financing and activity; I think we can look forward to discussions also here in the Chamber on a change in the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1332	The Labour Party and the Centre Block have cooperated on the budget for two years. The main objective in both budgets has been to prevent interest rate increases. And what has happened? Well, that's exactly the interest rate that's risen. And what's the reason for that? Well, it's primarily the strange price and cost increase. So what do the Labour Party and the Centre Block do? Yes, they increase taxes and taxes for both individuals and businesses. And what does this lead to? Of course, it leads to cost growth for business, which in turn sends the bill to the consumer – which in turn leads to price rises. Tax increases to the population have the same effect. When the net, which everyone lives on, becomes smaller, employees in wage negotiations obviously demand higher wages to recover tax increases — which in turn leads to cost increases and higher price increases. That is exactly what has happened in two budgets with the Labour Party and the Centre Block, with the result that interest rates have increased. I wonder if the representative Hildeng does not see this. And why do you put on more of the wrong medicine? In its original budget, the government proposed a significant increase in costs for both businesses and the population — short-term taxes, taxes on electricity in industry and a deterioration in the sharing model. The reason for this was to free labour from the private sector to the public sector. It really means that companies have to go down, or they're going down. My other question to Hildeng is then: What part of the business sector besides the process industry does the Workers' Party want to go down or go down? I think the workers in the business community have a right to know how long they are working with the Workers' Party in power.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1343	I believe that the phase of this budget and this budgetary agreement, at least as expressed by professional economists, is that this is a budget and a budgetary settlement that is not going to lead to higher interest rates. In this way, we ensure both working conditions for businesses and social protection for workers. But the Progress Party and the Labour Party have quite different starting points in their approach to what is important. We've seen over time that an extremely large inequality has developed in the population. We want a fairer distribution. We want to expand the public sector so that everyone has the opportunity on a free basis to choose school, get social care and get health care as they need. But it assumes that there is a redistribution of the large wealth that is in private business and that to a greater extent this is directed to the public sector, so that we can ensure the freedom of the individual and the security of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1350	Norwegian municipalities provide many of the community services that are both needed and appreciated by residents, and for some municipalities, a substantial part of the income from property taxes comes from power plants. The principle of taxiing such facilities was changed this summer by the introduction of Section 8 of the Property Tax Act. For this reason, there was a Provenyo report of something over 900 million. kr for the municipalities per years. Now it turns out this doesn't work. A loss of income of over 40 pst. is mentioned, and the Minister of Finance has warned that he will very soon come back with a proposition to improve on this. This, of course, has led to frustrations and uncertainties in the municipalities, and there is also a question in the budget about new distribution rules for so-called cross-border power plants. There is a close link between this with the charging principle and the allocation principle for cross-border installations. Property taxes are a complicated matter. I have to admit that I am a little skeptical that one should snort such a rapid measure in order to improve both consistency and prosperity during some hectic budgetary weeks. That's why I'm very excited about the proposition the Minister of Finance has made very soon. My question to the representative Hildeng will then be: In view of the fact that a monthly proceeds have been documented through the legislation that was adopted this summer and with which it was worked for quite a long time, would it not have been safer to give yourself a little better time and simply postpone both the implementation of Section 8 and the introduction of new distribution rules for cross-border installations, rather than to rush through legislation that is perhaps not sufficiently accurate this time either? When the situation has turned out the way he is, shouldn't the Labour Party signal that now gives us a little more time to get it really accurate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1359	As the representative Sørfonn said, the Property Tax Act and its Section 8 are complicated, and it has been used for years to arrive at a good solution. Not many days ago, we dealt with the bill that actually provided the basis for a better distribution between municipalities and for us to be able to implement the property tax as described in Section 8. On the part of the intermediate parties, concern was expressed in relation to the fact that in the budget it now appeared that the municipalities had a smaller proceeds than the one calculated, and that which was the precondition for the work of the Storting and the previous decision of the Storting. It is clear that, as far as I know, the Minister of Finance is going to present a matter which is precisely to ensure that the municipalities receive the income that was the precondition for the law when it was adopted and implemented. I expect that the income of the power municipalities and the transmission municipalities will be as Stortinget has intended them to be. And I feel safe about the matter that comes on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1366	The Labour Party's tax policy spokespersons confirm that the Workers' Party will promote its own tax model until next year, and much indicates that it does not want to add a broad political settlement on changes in the system, as was done in the early 1990s. At the time, the system changes were first investigated by a wide-ranging group of professionals with various hearings. The consequences of such an urgent model as both Hildeng and the Minister of Finance are now forecast to increase the unforeseeability and instability of the business environment because the changes in the systems will not survive the changing political majority. I have a question for the tax-policy spokesperson: why does the Workers' Party not want a tax reform ten years after the previous one to be investigated first by a broad group of trade unions? Does the representative Hildeng think that it is self-valued that a tax reform brings together a broad political majority? If so, how will the Workers' Party take care of that piece? Unfortunately Hildeng also confirms in his post that until next year it will be added to a progressive capital tax. That is, you look at the equity of a company, and if it has a profit that exceeds a certain percentage of equity, it's going to get a higher tax rate. That is, companies that make a lot of money in relation to the values in the company will pay an extra amount of tax. I actually thought that the tax system should be the opposite, that it encouraged those who really have high returns. That's the businesses we want more of. Then my question is related to knowledge companies, where equity is primarily the people of the company. There you'll easily get a very large profit in relation to equity. How can such a tax model be used to ensure that those enterprises remain in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1377	The right-hand side is constantly trying to paint... Now I was saying something wrong, because it's not parliamentary to say 'the enemy'?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1382	He has hardly been regarded in a parliamentary context as being particularly fully-fledged.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1386	No, but at least... on the wall when they constantly point out that one is afraid that businesses are moving out of the country, and now especially knowledge businesses. When you look forward, I think there'll be other things than just making money that's going to be crucial for where employees choose to work. In an increasingly changing global economy, with increasing uncertainty in working conditions, workers will look to countries where they have security of well-being, security of health pay systems, security of pension conditions. I think that's going to be what determines where companies are going to establish themselves. Yes, we're in favour of progressive taxation too, and it's based on a justice system. It is a progressive taxation of income, we should also have it in corporate taxation and industrial taxation. We are of the opinion that those who have great opportunities to contribute to the community should do so. It's just the way we can also build a welfare society. It is desirable to have as broad a political basis as possible for a new tax reform. I think we agree that a tax reform is needed. And it is clear that it is also desirable to have as broad a majority as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1393	Unfortunately, I have to say that the current position on the 2001 state budget of the Workers' Party and the Centre parties, the parties that want to present themselves as those who stand for genuine solidarity, has made a budgetary settlement that most affected those of our citizens who had really needed solidarity in practice. I am thinking first and foremost of our minimum pensioners, disabled, disabled and chronically ill, who with this budget will have a far tougher economic everyday life next year. Taxes on disease have been further increased, and in the last four years, the actual excess of excess 40 psts in health care has increased. Then I find it timely to ask the same parties the following questions: Is it a good view of value, and is it real solidarity, when you add this disease tax? The housing allowance for minimum pensioners is reduced and the tax on owner-occupied housing, which affects very many minimum pensioners, is increased by a total of 15 pst. In total, this can give a house rent increase that many minimum pensioners will not be able to bear. The electricity charge is increasing, this will preferably affect people with a weak economy, and can hardly be called a fair distribution at my discretion. The consequences of this budget for the lowly-paid, for example, minimum pensioners and chronically ill, will be that we get an increase in the excess medical prescriptions in our pharmacies because patients do not make the self-payment to take out their prescribed medications. The increase in the self-payment of home services for minimum pensioners will lead to a reduction in the assistance needed, which in turn may lead to faster institutionalisations. I am pleased that the Progress Party has finally had the advantage of removing the reference price system in our pharmacies, a system that has preferably affected those who have been chroniclers when they were going to pick up their medicines. Unfortunately, the budgetary agreement has also not led to a better operating situation for our hospitals, and I do not think it would be possible for hospitals in 2001 to increase their healthcare production by 2 pst., as provided in the budget, without leading to a significant operating deficit. In this context, I would like to point out that the Progress Party has recently adopted a significant allocation for the purchase of services abroad, so this can help those patients who have been on a waiting list for a long time and can now receive treatment abroad in 2001. In the case of hospital operations, I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome the decision of the Labour Party’s National Meeting in November on the state acquisition of hospitals, and I assume that this acquisition takes place as soon as possible and that it is practicable to implement it until 2002. I hope it will be possible in this context to improve the predictable financing of our hospitals. This can only be done by increasing input-based funding by up to 80 pst. directly to the hospitals, so that we can ensure that hospitals are paid for the tasks they perform, and can plan the operation accordingly. This time, the Progress Party has introduced a net increase in health of NOK 2.1 billion in its alternative health and social budget. With such an additional amount, it should be possible to reduce something on health cows, and especially on the queues of our seriously ill cancer patients. In its alternative health and social budget, the Progress Party has also this time prioritised strong medical research, both basic research and clinical research. In particular, it is important for Norway to increase its efforts in the field of research, and not least for clinical research, where Norway is actually on the jumbo site in relation to our Nordic neighbouring country. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of Norway being in a completely different way than in the past not negative to entering into a cooperation with the pharmaceutical industry, which may lead to significant operational means in the field of clinical research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1408	One of the most important changes that the conciliation led to, thinks the Christian People's Party is that the bumps of those who have the least are in place again – and I asked the representative Alvheim to notice it. It was actually with wondering the Christian People's Party that the workers' party government had cut the 160 million. which has helped to meet the minimum pension list with expensive rents. It was simply very unsocial. Of course, it was important to get a normal treatment of private schools, and it was very important that evangelists and AAN got the money they needed to help people in need. These are posts that the Christian People's Party has cut to put in place every single year. It's embarrassing that the Labour Party is trying to strip the volunteer Norway. There is no room where a krone used has more power and triggers more services than networks in voluntary Norway. But the minimum pensioners believed that the Labour Party also cared, not least for those of the elderly who have the least. But maybe that was too much to ask for. It's a fact that the Labour Party did not agree to raise this particular group by $1,000 per person. month. It was actually the center and the right-hand side that gave the minimum pensioners a lift that gave them something more to live for. We have to get that social distribution in place, often without the Labour Party. So the center had to get the support system back in place. Although the representative Alvheim has now left, I will again ask him to pay attention to it. The electric charge can also be the weakest, but the bump is in place again. The thousands note should not be digested by taking from the older aids to light and heat where the arc costs are unreasonably high. The municipal economy is important for the Christian People's Party. It is in the municipalities that well-being is created. It's local we live and cage. It is the community economy that determines the kind of growing-up conditions you give to children and young people, and the kind of care you care for. The municipalities wear hard. The vast majority will have it worse next year than this year. In Hordaland, I hear that in a number of municipalities they have to cut down on the welfare goods by between 5 and 10 pst. That's tough. Of course, they're happy for the $1.25 billion they've had an extra deal with the deal. It helps, but they hope for a debt restitution scheme, of course with a criterion that gives a fair distribution. The municipal minor expenditure, as envisaged in the scheme, will be about $2 billion. It is necessary for municipalities to be able to provide the expected welfare services. However, the most important thing for the municipalities’ future economy is that they have moderate wage settlements, so that wages do not amount to what they should have for operating assets and investments. Care cannot be rationalised. The Christian People's Party was horrified that the government of Stoltenberg had put the whole tightening on the state budget of business. It shows that the government can't see the many companies that are tilting towards red numbers. VAT on travel life can undoubtedly be compared with active death aid for this growth industry in District Norway. Commending the tourism industry in the natural beauty of Norway out of the market is unlikely to be a bit forward-looking. Centre could not be accepted. That's why the changes were so clear. The cyclical charges would affect all businesses, whether they have losses or surpluses. Of course, this could not be accepted by the center. The positive thing for businesses is that one to the next year– or better 2002– can save DKK 6 billion in investment fees. The Christian People's Party and the other centre parties have seen their stamp on the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28.ana.ud955e1427	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18 for dealing with matters on today's map.
