ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e45	This case contains a number of cleanups, changes and reviews of tax and tax laws. Most of these themes are of such a nature that it would be unnecessary to comment on them. But as a case spokesman, I find it necessary to comment on three aspects. First, when it comes to point 4 of the setting, which relates to gifts to voluntary teams and organisations, I remind you that this is a follow-up to the decision made at the Innst. S. No 220 for 1999-2000 in spring, where the requirement to be covered by such a tax-free gift scheme to voluntary teams and organisations was changed from a requirement of 3000 or more members to a requirement for the organisation to have a ‘national scope’. In Ot.prp. No 78 might be perceived as a tightening of the requirement. It wasn't. On the contrary, the whole aim was to make the scheme more accurate, so that it was not. law-based organisations without a central membership register or relatively small, but important organisations and organisations which, by their very nature, cannot base their actions on members would fall outside the scheme. So a whole committee has put in a comment that makes this more precise. The note also states that ‘national scope’ does not mean requirement for action in all states, but that the organisation in question must have activity beyond the purely local level. The second relationship I would like to mention, relates to point 6, where it is advisable to wind up the scheme of hedging features in the fishing industry. No comments were received on this topic during the Committee's proceedings. Therefore, a joint committee recommended the winding-up of the hedging arrangement, as proposed by the Government. In retrospect, there have been objections to the proposal by several of the fishing industries' organisations, but since these objections occurred at a time when the Committee had submitted the opinion and had sent the matter to the Stortinge, there was little the Committee could do. As a case spokesman, I am busy with an orderly procedure, but at the same time that everyone who has relevant views will come up with them. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance to take a closer look at these objections that have now been raised in retrospect by the fishing industry's organisations. I might also hope that today's meeting will confirm that the Minister of Finance will take a closer look at these objections. Finally, in paragraph 8, the Ministry informs that it will defer the implementation of Section 8 of the ownership tax for transport facilities to the fiscal year 2002. This is a fairly complicated theme, and I remind you that in time after Ot.prp. 78 passed the Government, the Ministry of Finance has confirmed that the proceeds of property taxes for manufacturing plants – i.e. not transfer facilities, which are the ones mentioned here, but manufacturing plants – will be much lower than what was on the ground when the Storting in our decision to introduce § 8 into the property tax for manufacturing plants. The Minister of Finance, in a letter to the Presidency on 3 November of this year, stated that he was very soon aiming to make legislative proposals to bring the proceeds as far as possible in accordance with the regulations. We may well have some doubts as to whether it can be done now in the short period remaining until 1 January 2001, to get a defensive treatment of such a complicated legislative change. It is likely that it is most realistic to spend a little more time and therefore postpone the introduction of § 8 for production plants as well. What is mentioned in this case is as it were not a production plant, but a transfer plant. But since there's a certain context here, I'm referring to this, because if the Storting were to make changes like that of manufacturing plants, it could also have consequences for what's described in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e62	I have tabled a proposal which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The background for this is the same as the rapporteur points out, that a number of enquiries have been made after the case was sent. I think there is a need to explain how the fuse section works. It's kind of an advance, an advance tax, that the sales laws charge on behalf of the tax authorities, i.e. a free tax collection that the sales laws make, by subtracting 12 pst. the gross catch of all payments to ensure that the owner or shipping company that the employer has money in the accounts when they arrive and will settle the tax credit they have deducted from each fisherman. By removing this scheme, the tax authorities lose a well-established safety net, which the tax administration in the municipalities wants, as the fishermen want, as the sales organisations want, and which even the Ministry of Fisheries wants, but which the Ministry of Finance does not want. That's the actual situation of the case. Following the contacts from different organisations, as well as from fishermen and the sales teams, there is reason to ask the Minister of Finance to review this as well. There is great fear in the industry – and not least from the sales teams – that upon termination of this scheme, the sales teams will have to carry on a heavy-duty and long-wearing procedure with imposed features that will be completed due to lack of money when the account is to be settled. That is why I am promoting the proposal, and I would like to hear what the Minister of Finance has to say about this, and whether he will look at the matter again. I am aware that it has to be adopted today, but the more trains go, so this does not have to be absolutely the last words that have been said if this is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e73	Steinar Bastesen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e76	Let me first confirm to the representative Sørfonn that the Government has been asked to return very quickly to the question of measures to ensure the assumed income by introducing property tax law § 8 concerning manufacturing plants, as notified in a letter to the Stortinget. I aim that it can happen very quickly, so that the Storting can deal with it. I also assume that we should be able to do it in such a way that there is a transparent issue that we want to present to the Stortinget. I also register what the representative Sørfonn and the representative Bastisen have said on the issue of fishermen's safety features. Norway’s Fiskerlag has expressed both the benefits and the disadvantages of removing the scheme. However, on the basis of an overall assessment, the Fiskerlage is skeptical about the abolition of the scheme. I noticed that the Fiskarlag has shown that the industry has a special structure with many small holdings. Furthermore, there are large fluctuations in income between the different periods of the year and between the years. In the opinion of the Fishlayer, the need for the additional safety provided by the protective draw-off system is felt. The fishing team also highlights the danger of increased tax havens and the problems that this could create for fishing communities and fishing communities. In its assessment, the Ministry has stressed that there are insufficient reasons to maintain rules providing the public extra security for the settlement of advances and advance taxes from a specific industry such as the latter. Equal treatment of different industries should be sought, and there is no basis for saying that there are more disadvantaged taxpayers in fishing and fishing than in other groups. Furthermore, the Ministry takes the view that the general rules on advances/preliminary taxes provide sufficient certainty for the settlement of taxes. The fishing team also states that the abolition of the scheme will lead to considerable additional work for shipping companies and accounting offices. Let me make it clear that shipping companies and merchants already have a normal employer responsibility today. This includes, inter alia: accountability obligations. Therefore, in my opinion, the removal of the rules on guarantees would not significantly increase the working pressure of the shipping company and the accounting office. The proposal does not specifically mention existing schemes and it has not been intended to add up to changes in existing specific reporting and payment schemes. Therefore, today’s flexible arrangements will continue to exist. I'm assuming that I can't see that there are crucial arguments for not implementing the scheme proposed in the proposition. At the same time, I record the views expressed by the Fiskerlag, which have also been expressed here, and will show that, on the part of the department, we will follow developments more closely in the future and possibly come back to the extent that it would prove to have unintended results.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e95	I want to turn my proposal into a transmission proposal. I announce that after a while, when we have seen how this works, it may become relevant to promote a Document No. Eight proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e100	The President would point out that this proposal is designed, i.e.: as a proposal to refer the matter back, the representative must either withdraw the proposal or allow the proposal to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e103	Then I'll draw it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e110	The representative, Mr Basteen, drew up the proposal. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 79]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e126	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e133	The Odelsting stays with Ot.prp. No 7 invited to rectify a mistake which was apparently committed when the law of 11 August 2000 No. 76 were adopted. Six days after the presentation of the proposal, the Judicial Committee had made its position clear, and now it is set up to adopt the proposal without debate, while we large-scale representatives have their hands full with the budgetary procedure, and without most of us being aware of the extent of what we are adopting. This is a procedure that has led us in the Coastal Party to react and see what the alleged error can be caused. We are left with an ugly suspicion that «some» did not want the Law of 15 December 1995 No. 74 were to be subjected to the thorough examination of consultation rounds and opinions prior to the adoption of the Law of 11 August 2000. The Norwegian law against sex mutilation is one of the most discriminatory laws we have, perhaps the worst. It prohibits the sexual mutilation of girls and young women, while the absence of a ban on the sexual mutilation of boys is apparently interpreted as an acceptance that parents who believe they have the right to choose religion and sexual practices for their sons get their newborn boys the genital mutilation of the Norwegian health care system, with anestheticism and the cost of popularism. As the present bill is designed, parents can be punished for paying a ticket to the home country for a 15-year-old Muslim girl who rejects the unilateral propaganda of the Norwegian school system for physical pleasure and chooses the radical extinction of parental culture by its physical desire. In other words, the odelsting is invited to criminalise a cultural and religious practice that takes place in other countries, even when those who are subjected to the intervention are so old that they should have the right to choose their religion and their sexual practices themselves. We in the Coastal Party believe that this goes far beyond «fixing an error» and want the matter to be sent back to the Department for a much more thorough treatment. Ideally, we want a penal order against the sexual mutilation of girls and boys under 15 years of age, mainly in Norway, but we also have nothing against penalising the participation of such devastation abroad. In the case of older children and young people, however, we believe that each individual has the right to choose his or her own path. For us, the informed consent of young people who are subjected to sexual mutilation is a relationship that can provide for the exemption of parents and other contributors from punishment. It is tragic that parents ’ religious convictions are to determine the future of young people. We will shortly be tabling a bill to amend the law so that boys and girls are treated equally in the ban on sexual mutilation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e142	I really didn't mean to say anything about this matter, not because we were going to have some sort of hidden agenda or try to lead the Storting behind the light by not having the opportunity to express what it meant about what the Bastisen referred to, but because this is just a reference that fell away when we adopted changes in the penal code, etc. – sexual offences — earlier this year. It has nothing to do with material substance so that someone could believe that the members of the Committee are not concerned with what is going on in sexual mutilation. On the contrary, it is up to all the members of the Judicial Committee. But this is not the place to discuss it – this is the creation of a mistake that was made. There should have been a reference in what was adopted, and it is this exclusion that is now being proposed to be corrected. I am also sorry that something fell away when this came from the department this time too, so that we had to get a rich print, because you had not discovered that the letter h was already busy when you suggested it would be used. Now it's fixed, and I hope the forgetfulness isn't an expression that there's someone who rests at dinner, or is in the 'kampa'.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e149	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 82]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e157	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e163	In connection with the debate, Mr Bastesen has put forward proposal No. 1 divided into the hall. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 78 on changes in tax legislation, Chapter 6, is returned to the Government for further consideration of the importance of proposals to fishermen, fish sales laws and tax authorities.» [[1999 - 2000]] This proposal was withdrawn by Steinar Bastesen during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e246	The representative Bastesen has warned that he would vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e547	It's going to be over the heads of the laws and laws of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e556	Legislative decisions will be sent to Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e601	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-lower.ana.ud574e609	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
