ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e39	At the request of the family, cultural and administrative committees, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e46	I note that all the proposals for amendments to the State Pension Fund Act and the other proposals made in Ot.prp. No 94 for 1998-99, supported by a broad majority in Odelstinget. The proposals deal with different aspects of the pension law and the other pension schemes. However, none of them can be said to represent major changes to the law, even if it would result in limited changes in pension payments for individuals or groups. These are essentially changes aimed at achieving important system and procedural simplifications. The latter concerns the proposal to transfer the power to finalise the entry and exit of members of the Pension Fund from Stortinget to the Government. The size is and will continue to be responsible for drawing up the guidelines for which businesses should be members of the Pension Fund. The role of the size has been more to be seen as a control role in relation to the decisions of the department. Today’s decision will involve a significant relief of the Stortinget and a much faster clarification in relation to the inclusion and exclusion of the Pension Fund. An overall committee supports the transfer of authority. However, the Progress Party and the Right have, in their own comments, explained their principal positions on membership of the State Pension Fund, namely that this should be reserved for government employees and not for employees in establishments which are no longer part of the State Government. These parties will probably themselves present their views, both in relation to this point and to the other proposals in the proposal. A proposal that has received some attention is the proposal to convert the widow's and widow's pensions from the Pension Fund from gross to net benefits, except for coordination and income testing. The aim of this conversion is primarily to simplify and eliminate coordination in the most complex area we have within the gross system. The increasing self-employment of women has gradually made the ratio of survivors' pensions less transparent through the current system of income testing and coordination. Therefore, by implementing the proposed simplification, one avoids the two complex components of the pension calculation for the Pension Fund that the coordination and the income test represent. In principle, this also implies a change in the pension scheme by changing from today to securing all the survivors of a minimum income, to becoming a pension that provides benefits based on what each deceased person has had of income, regardless of what the survivor himself has of income. The proposal to convert the widow's and widow's pensions of the State Pension Fund from gross to net pension benefits was promoted by the so-called Coordination Committee. The proposal gives a thorough account of the background to the pension committee’s proposal. It is also worth noting that the proposed simplification has been acceded to by all employee organisations during the consultation round. In its proposal, the Ministry has taken the view that the new scheme should be neutral in terms of proceeds from the previous scheme. It is therefore not to avoid that the change leads to someone getting a larger payment after the change, while some get less. Initially, the conversion will be most beneficial in cases where the deceased had low income and service provision. Widows after men with low income thus receive the greatest increase. However, if the deceased had income above NOK 270 000, the net pension will be slightly less than the current gross pension. And because women like to have lower income than men, widowers get a slightly better net pension than today. However, any outcome of the conversion that some may experience as unfortunate must be weighed against the benefits of eliminating the complexity of coordination. This has been crucial both for the majority of the Committee and for the various hearing bodies. The Party has, in its own observations and proposals, explained why the Party wishes to postpone the examination of this point. To that end, I can only say that the Committee has assessed the relationship with a more detailed consultation note from the Ministry of Social Affairs on survivors' pensions. Having obtained the opinion of the Ministry, which concludes that any change in the retirement pension should not have an impact on the treatment of this currently under consideration, the number of committees has also come to the conclusion that the proposal can now be adopted. Several of the proposals in the proposal are supported by an overall committee. It concerns both the proposal to make a supplementary retirement pension available from the time when there is a right to an immediate ongoing pension, and the proposal to make child pensions from gross to net retirement benefits exempted from coordination and income testing, as well as some minor amendments of a more linguistic and editorial nature. The proposals that have been made to amend the pension scheme law for state councils, including: so that the old-age pension is not payable as long as a former State Council has a full-time municipal representative status, is supported by all parties except the Advance Party. The Progress Party also opposes the proposal to introduce a right to a widow's and widow's pension after a member who marries after the age of 65, and after a member who marries after receiving an old-age or disability pension, as well as the proposals for amendments to the pharmacies pension scheme promoted and which correspond to the proposals in the Proposition concerning the State Pension Fund Act. However, I am pleased that a large majority support the proposed changes in pension legislation and also point to the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e76	I would like to agree with both the opinions and opinions expressed by the rapporteur on behalf of the majority. I just want to make a few brief comments on the odelstningsproposition. The proposal emphasises that the State Pension Fund shall ensure that all government employees and all the other non-government services associated with the State Pension Fund, the security and the security for obtaining pension payments after earned entitlements after the end of a professional career. The reorganization of many state companies over the last 10-15 years has led to ongoing discussions about who should be included in or excluded by the State Pension Fund. The last time we had this debate in Stortinget was in connection with the establishment of Stadsbygs rental activities like AS. The Workers' Party considers this type of decision to be in the hands of the Ministry, but would point out that the Stortinget draws up the guidelines for which businesses should be able to be members of the State Pension Fund. The transfer of the power to take a final decision on membership of the Pension Fund from the Stortinget to the Ministry will significantly reduce the time before the final response is available. However, as the majority of the Committee emphasises, the pension rights of employees are assumed to be safeguarded by any reorganisation and exemption of State activities in the same way as they do today. As regards the changes in widow's and widow's pensions, the Workers' Party supports the proposal to go from gross to net pension benefits, which are excluded from coordination and income testing. This conversion is seen as positive and as an incentive for survivors to have their own labour income by not having the pension tested. As regards the other changes to the proposition, the Workers' Party supports them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e91	The Progress Party is in doubt that the decision-making authority will be transferred from Stortinget to the Ministry in the event of withdrawal of the State Pension Fund. This will mean administrative simplification, and the Progress Party does not see the great point of continuing today's practice. What is still important, however, is that in the future, the Storting will continue to draw up the principle guidelines on this matter. With regard to the issue of subsidiaries included in State activities, should be a member of the State Pension Fund, the Progress Party is of the opinion that only principal offices and institutions should be members. Establishments from which the State has partially sold out or State-owned limited liability companies should not be members of the Pension Fund. These must be treated in the same way as private companies with no specific advantages. With regard to the proposal that widow's and widow's pensions be converted from gross to net pension benefits, the Party cannot support this. We see that the proposal will imply simplification and opportunities for an administrative gain, which we obviously consider to be positive. But the purpose of the proposal is that the sum of the net pension and the survivor's pension from the popular benefit for the whole group as a whole should be the same. So this means that some people get a reduced pension payment. There is no exact proceeds at this time, but I point out that the Ministry of Social Affairs has out at the hearing proposals for significant reductions and partial withdrawal of the survivor's pension from popular security. If these proposals were to come forward, the assumptions for net retirement in this proposition would be lost. The Party therefore considers it appropriate and sensible to examine these proposals together, simply in order to take the right decisions. We therefore propose a postponement of these principal proposals. With regard to the introduction of the right to a pension after marriage concluded after the age of 65, this may be a de minimis matter which will only apply to a few. But the Progress Party believes that widows' and widows' pensions are something that has been worked out through a long professional life in common between two people, one of whom has been dependent on the livelihood of the one who has been a member of the Pension Fund, and we cannot support this. In this context, the Progress Party will also propose that full-pension payments be made from the fixed retirement age when 30 years are earned in the State Pension Fund. Full earnings in the State Pension Fund are achieved as known after 30 years, cf. Section 23 of the State Pension Fund Act. However, this does not apply if a member ends up in the country and goes into other activities. If a member of the Pension Fund goes into private activities after 30 years in the service of the State, he expects that at the age of retirement full state pension will be paid. It's not like that, and most pensioners are very surprised when they discover this. The reality is that those who stop and switch to other activities receive a full-pension vesting period corresponding to the time to retirement — but not more than 40 years. This is permitted in the second paragraph of Section 24. An example of this: a person starts working in the country as a 20-year-old. When he/she is 50 years old, he/she has 30 years of service and, according to normal rules, he/she is entitled to a full pension when he/she reaches the age limit. The person ends up in the country at the age of 50 and moves into a private enterprise, where he becomes a retirement age of 67. Full earnings will then be 40 years – not 30, and his pension from the state will be reduced to 30/40. The Progress Party believes that this system is unfair and that the rule of earnings must be the same for all. The law says full earnings are 30 years old. Whether you decide to quit in the state or not after full earnings is achieved, should not be included with the Pension Fund. I just end by promoting the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e112	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e115	I am pleased with the changes in the laws that are now being proposed. The case rapporteur went through them in a good way, and I just want to comment on the two specific comments that the Right has. First of all, it's with intrusion and extrusion. We support the transfer of authority from Stortinget to the Ministry to determine these matters. We're not going to sit and puzzle with this. We put here long lists of different companies to be assessed, and when one, especially for the Right, has as a principle that companies organised under special laws or as a limited liability company or as a foundation should not be offered membership, it became quite laborious to assess each one. However, on behalf of the Right I would nevertheless ask the Ministry to take a close look at this, and that not all establishments that have some sort of connection with the State are offered membership. We believe that limited liability companies and businesses organised under special laws or as foundations should not be offered membership of the State Pension Fund, but that they wish to enter into other pension agreements for their employees. So to this with widows' and widows' pensions. We join the proposal and are pleased that there is now a transition from gross to net pensions. This will address several problems related to the coordination of this group, including: the negative effect problem. However, the proposals in the Odelstingsproposition do not address the problems of coordinating the ordinary occupational pensions of the State Pension Fund. The right considers that the ordinary benefits of the State Pension Fund should also be converted into net pensions, and we refer to our comments in the Innst. S. No 180 for 1995-96 on the welfare notification. We believe that there is a need for a security reform of popular security, where supplementary pensions are funded so that individuals are assured that future pension benefits will be proportionate to their own earnings. We are therefore asking the Government to follow up on this in connection with the suspension of the Moland Committee and to propose that pensions from the State Pension Fund become net pensions funded.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e126	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e134	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e140	During the debate, Mr Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposals No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to defer the proposal for the transition from gross to net pension benefits to widows and widowers until it can be considered together with, where appropriate, the proposals for the reduction of survivor’s pension from Social Security.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e257	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to Section 24, second paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State Pension Fund Act is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e371	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e620	The Progress Party has announced here that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e816	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-lower.ana.ud747e824	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
