ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e15	The application for welfare leave was submitted by Mr Jan Johnsen on Tuesday 7 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Bent Höie, is invited to meet during the period of leave. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e46	I see that the Council of State and I agree on the description of reality. There's a lot of problems here, and here it has to be cleaned up. It shouldn't be like that, said the Council of State, and I'm very happy that he means it. I also perceive that he has an honest and sincere willingness to do something about this matter. He'll thank you for that. The Council of State has set up a working group to establish common rules and make concrete proposals in September 2000. That's good. But what do we do in the meantime? These are students, including: the one student that I mentioned in my post instead, who is in the case now, and who has trouble getting through. I believe that we, as responsible politicians, cannot take the risk by keeping them stuck in that saxa. We have to try to do something now. Could the Council of State envisage making an enquiry to all colleges and universities to intensify the use of organised exams within the current legislation, before being changed, and encourage them in every way to try to contribute so that this can be carried out? Could the Council of State consider temporarily exempting from the requirement of two sensors for such examinations? There is an extra requirement that entails both additional financial costs for schools and practical problems in providing adequate sensors. I am aware that this is probably one of the quality assurance requirements imposed on such examinations in order to be at least as good as other examinations. But I'm not sure that's a necessary requirement. I hope that the Council of State can look at such a solution. I'm prepared that he may not be able to answer yes now, but hope that he can be willing to look at such a solution, see if it is feasible, so that those who are in the school system now, who are going to take the spring exam, and those who are going to go to school next year, can get a little easier way through our squirmed school system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e57	First, I want to say that I am very pleased and happy that Andersen's representative perceives that I actually thought she had a good description of reality and much shared it, and that we want to do something together. So the representative Andersen has two questions for me. I'll try to sign them out. It is quite right that the representative, Andersen, says that it will be a while before we have this in place. First, the working group will work until 1 September, and then we will carry out the proceedings in the department. Therefore, I am willing to acknowledge that part of the first question. The second is whether we can write to universities and colleges in connection with the creation of the working group and inform them that we have seen that group down, and ask that one until it has delivered its setting and one has received its final rules, try to make the most flexible practices in today's legislation. I'll promise Andersen that we'll do it as soon as we can. We are, of course, in the process of collecting and reviewing the action plans drawn up by the individual institutions, and we might link them to the procedure as well. I need to find a practical way to do it. When it comes to the last question, it's about two sensors, I probably can't take it over the table. Because it is quite right for the representative, Andersen, to say that it is a quality assurance requirement. The representative, Andersen, said in his main post that it was about coming into the study, it was about getting an organization, so that one got to compensate for the problems that one had, and that it's important. That's exactly where we are. Then she said that it is necessary for a person to have the same type of final competence requirements as under normal arrangements. That's where we are, too. I do not have a sufficient list of the reasons and arrangements for me to sign that part over the table. On the other hand, the last question I should like to take with me and try out in relation to the quality assurance aspect. So I'm going to give the message back again in relation to it. Should Andersen ask that, if possible, it could be announced in the same round as we notify the first. But I have to go through it more closely before I take the final position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e70	There's really not much more to say in this case, because the interpellant and the council have said a lot of what should be said. But I will nevertheless be allowed to add that for the Workers' Party, it is very important and a main goal that everyone should be able to exploit their abilities and facilities and receive training and training adapted to the individual. In the case of those who suffer from reading and writing difficulties, I would like, among other things. refer to the interpellation of Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, where she addresses this particular question, and then extended with the actual examination form through the interpellation here today. It is a major challenge for universities and universities to organise the teaching and examination of people with difficulty in reading and writing. For persons with a high degree of dyslexia, written examination is a problem and in some cases an absolute obstacle to the conduct of a university or higher education course. It should therefore be a matter of course to facilitate an oral examination where possible. We are familiar with cases where the students do not get such an offer and thus are not given the opportunity to show what they really can. Now I have understood the Council of State so that he will review practice and consider what can be done to enable those who need it to adapt to the exam. I think a lot of the reason why maybe the private colleges in particular don't spend enough resources on this is because it's expensive. It's a lot more expensive than letting all the students go through a joint exam. So it's not that easy for these students to get the kind of exam they're entitled to. But these are the schools that have to do, and I'm very happy that the Council of State now wants to send a letter to all the universities and colleges where this is clarified. I'm less happy with the thought of one sensor. If you want it, in case it has to be an external sensor that censors, not one from school, and especially not where there is conflict. I think it's best with two sensors, and if there's to be one, at least it has to be an external sensor. Then I don't have any more time. I just want to join in what has been said before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e83	I will first be allowed to thank the representative Karin Andersen for raising this question. It's incredibly important. She has also taken it up earlier, and I know she is concerned about it. At the same time, a small praise should be given to the Council of State for his great goodwill. He does, and he knows that. I want to grasp something that Andersen's representative started with, that one should choose a trick if one had this disability. She's probably right about that. But it's not that easy to choose trick. The case to which she referred concerned a private college. I'm standing here with another case in front of me that concerns a student at the University of Oslo who is in exactly the same issue. So it has nothing to do with the fact that private colleges will save money, which the representative Dørum has in mind. It has something with general lack of understanding to do in this system, I think, and reading the legislation that exists, in a similar – or relatively similar – way. In his rules for the examination, BI has a Section 10c which says that when particularly difficult reasons warrant it, the candidate can apply to the head of study for oral arrangements instead of written examinations. If you don't realize that dyslexia can be particularly burdensome, you have a clear problem at this place. And when we know that BI's regulations are broadly consistent with the rules of examination also at universities and other colleges, and you have to assume that the principal, the principal, etc. In general, people with the same competence and background are obviously having a problem. This does not apply to the desire of private individuals to make money, but rather to the possibility of reading the legislation as the Council of State and the Stortinget want it to be read. What I would like to pay special attention to is that the examiner must also understand the concept of dyslexia by word of mouth. The examiner on an oral examination must have been briefed, so that he knows that the one going to test has dyslexia – that's why it's an oral test. I have examples from the University of Oslo where one claims that the examiner at all did not understand the word dyslexia, and that he was also not aware that the student had oral because of this disability. But I see the council there that all this will be carefully prepared and done with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e94	It has been shown that political principles in the mainstreaming and government of equal rights to education and a broad understanding of the concept of accessibility have not been enough to get the group dyslexics, or read and write-impaired, among others. the action plans for the disabled that universities and higher education institutions were required to draw up during 1999. So it's quite clear that dyslexics, the read and write-impaired, must be given statutory rights at university and university level. There are too many examples of mistreatment and therefore discrimination against dyslexics. I choose to interpret it as a lack of professional competence of those responsible for facilitating students with disabilities in relation to the writing language. I base my claim on the reasons given for not conducting the examination. To take a few examples: they can be arranged in one school year, but not the following year, or: they do not get the first year’s examination and therefore delete in some subjects. The following year they were accepted for the examination for the subjects that belong to that school year, but they were refused to resume and have the exams arranged in the subjects they completed the year before. But dyslexia is not a cold that comes and goes! Many have organized education and have organised examinations in primary and secondary schools on the basis of expert judgement. When they come to universities and higher education institutions, they shall no longer be able to use compensatory aids. It seems like someone thinks there's a miracle happening on the day you start higher education. It's just not like that. Dyslexia, specific reading and writing problems, is something you have to live with all your life. And there's still someone who claims that dyslexics have nothing to do at university and college, but that's a big misunderstanding. Neither do practical and economic arguments to avoid facilitating this group. I expect that everyone in this room knows dyslexics who are competent in their subject areas. It's teachers, nurses, doctors, dentists, lawyers and theologians. There are so many who have walked away, and who have done it, perhaps with good help from the family. It is skills and facilities and interests that are essential for education, including dyslexics – those with specific read and write difficulties. Those with disabilities in relation to the writing language must compensate with technical means and arrangements based on individual needs. The council said something that made me jump in the chair, and I quote: ‘Although it’s not common to mention dyslexics as disabled persons...’ It was a little bit more, so I’m asking for the word again. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e115	The President has noted his wish and will see if this is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e118	Reading and writing problems are a major problem both in Norwegian schools and in many other areas of society today – yes, much larger than most are aware of. And I'm going to say first that I think it's a little sad that the proposal that Right had up before this period, to get a whole plan where one went through all the sides of these issues, was not adopted. That's what I thought was sad, because then we could have seen this in a bigger context. But don't worry about it. Today, the higher education we talk about, and it's clear that there's a lot of problems – as the interpellant has got very well ahead – that show that that's not all that works. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it might give a slightly negative picture of the situation when it is said as a general presentation that students encounter resistance instead of encouragement. But there is an example today of the fact that individual cases can be found – perhaps more than many of us are aware of. It is therefore necessary to continue working to make it easier for students with difficulty in reading and writing both to study and to take the exam. I think it is very well marketed that something has to be done with the legislation, and I am pleased that the Council of State will do this. Nevertheless, I think we have to bear in mind that too detailed rules will create new and difficult borderline cases. We never get away from understanding. The councils have said that he will come to the track and to the goal during the fall, and as I said, this is positive. But then there are questions about what can be done in the meantime, as the representative Andersen talks about. I want to give praise both to the student who has seen this in focus, and to Karin Andersen, who takes it up in Stortinget. I believe that the remark that this case has received, not only in a higher school, but in many higher schools, combined with the letter that the Council of State has now also promised to send out as a sharpening, could have its effect. I believe this will make the educational institutions tighten up, and I hope and believe that this will also give the students it owes, against and self-confidence to stand up and check out what rules exist. Because it's probably one of the sides that there's been a little talk about here, but that's also a reality, that a lot of students aren't even clear about the dishes they have today to arrange exams.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e130	The President noted that Mr Nilsson asked for the floor again. The President must then draw attention to Section 50 of our Rules of Procedure, where this is likely to be excluded. But the President will feel that there will be debates later in this House and hope that it will be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e133	I find it sad that it is necessary to raise a matter that should be a matter of course in our modern society. However, it is commendable that the representative Karin Andersen has notified this interview to ensure appropriate evaluation methods for students and students who have difficulty reading and writing, called dyslexia in the professional language. I was very surprised when I was told that students who have difficulty reading and writing are facing difficulties in getting the exam organised by some higher education institutions today. I myself have experience in advanced education, with emphasis on professional subjects. That's where I've been helping to facilitate alternative forms for many, many years. The students received, among other things: longer time for examinations and examinations, oral and written testing by being an assistant in writing, in addition to additional supervision in the examination room. The use of audio tapes was also an alternative – all in line with the higher education legislation. I cannot therefore accept that this is not possible in the higher education sector. I hope and believe it is not as bad as one – in this context not named – case carries the order. It's in case of a big shame, if it's allowed to use that expression in this hall. It is too easy to blame for the lack of resources and legislation that requires more than one sensor, as stated in a document I have been given access to. Norway is a welfare nation. It's a commitment. All shall have the possibility of obtaining training, according to their abilities and assumptions. No one shall be rejected without having assessed their competence. The decision on real competence is an excellent example of the fact that the Stortinget wants everyone to demonstrate their competence. A press release from Business College BI says that even higher education is now facing the challenge of dyslexics. This requires a clear policy on the part of the authorities and the ability to innovate in individual educational institutions, it says. Yes, I agree. While the policy is there by the authorities, I think unfortunately there is a lot to pick up from another team. I mean the educational institutions. It's the ones that have the biggest challenges. Maybe the biggest task is to process your own attitudes, not to say prejudices in this area. It has not been common for these institutions to meet people with reading and writing difficulties in the student community. I am pleased that the Council of State has responded positively to many of the questions asked by the interpellant. I am pleased that he will also see whether he can grant more exemptions in specific cases after individual assessment in relation to the general study competence regulation – this in order to improve the ability of dyslexics to start higher studies. In the Action Plan for the Disabled, the Government has instructed all universities and colleges to draw up action plans for disabled students. This is highlighted in the budget circular for the current financial year, and that is good. I would also like to commend the Council of State which has now set up a working group to look into problems experienced by the students with dyslexia and dyscalculia in higher education. Unfortunately, many dyslexics have been considered to be prowess because the letters have jumped across the textbook. Fortunately, it is no shame to have this disability today, but there is still some work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e150	On behalf of the Left, I would like to endorse what has been highlighted both by the inter-pellant and by the Council of State, namely that this is an important question for a group that has had significant difficulties in getting proper education and training in the study period, and also in the question of being able to document its knowledge and take examinations. It is therefore important that the inter-pellant and the Council of State have said today. I would like to stress that I think the main element that must remain from the debate is that the Council of State has given a very positive answer to the problem that the interpellant has raised, and clearly indicated that this is something to be resolved. There is no doubt either that with regard to the question of writing and reading difficulties, there is also a clear point in that for a very large number this is a partially hidden problem and a question that is not entirely open. From my own experience from universities and colleges, I have absolute experience of the fact that once you are challenged in relation to creating organized examination situations for people with special difficulties, you are also able to do so in a fully professionally sound manner. At one point, however, I would like to express a reservation in relation to the interpellant, and that is the question of whether to grant a derogation from the requirement for two sensors. I think that when you make special arrangements and an exam that deviates somewhat from the methodology in relation to the ordinary, there may be reason to be aware that there should be two sensors, partly to be sure that the exam that is taken is perceived as having the authority that an exam should have. It would not be particularly favourable for an examination candidate if the assessment carried out was questioned. The second element is simply the safety of the one up to the exam. It is safest to have a sound assessment and not to meet a sensor that may not be particularly suitable for carrying out the assessment that needs to be made, which may be slightly different in some elements from the main system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e160	I do not disagree with any of the things that have been said, either by the inter-pellant or in the response of the Council of State. That's all excellent. But let me clarify one thing: if the Council of State wants to send its own letter to the universities and universities concerned, it should be quite clear from that letter that it is simply not acceptable to invoke economic or practical arguments in order not to follow the wish for an organised examination. It simply doesn't make any sense to start discussing whether there should be two sensors or one. It is simply unacceptable, and there is not a single college in this country that has such a bad economy that it is unable to do so. But then to the slightly more comprehensive issue, because what we're discussing from the point of view of the interpellation, is just a small tab of a much, much larger and more extensive problem. What really gives cause for concern, of course, is that a large proportion of those who are struggling with these problems when they come up in student age, after all the sun brands could have been exempted from those problems if at a long earlier time it had been discovered that they had these problems and there were the right pedagogical measures put in place at the right time, namely at the elementary school stage. That's why I wish, based on this interpellation, that there'll be a stronger pressure behind, among other things. Right-wing requirements and repeated proposals for a national action plan to raise an offensive to address the problem of dyslexia as high as possible, i.e. as early as possible in the course of individual learning. Because it is too wrong for a large number of people to drag on this throughout their lives, if they could have been helped by relatively simple measures, if the measures were taken at the right time. So I would like to ask the Council of State to include it and reason on it in its heart – if not the idea of a national action plan to put up a real offensive to meet this problem, is actually a pretty good idea. It is true that a State Council has unlimited right of initiative in implementing such matters. I hope that the Council of State will avail itself of that right of initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e167	The Christian People's Party is just as concerned about this problem as other parties and sees that the problems do not start in further education and higher education, but that it starts when the children are quite small, and that they need help throughout school. In the case of dyslexia and specific difficulty reading and writing, it is internationally accepted as a disability. It is essential in terms of the issues dealt with and when they are going to school, in continuing education and higher education. It's going to be 10 pst. by the population. The way to figure it out, both the Dyslexia Association and the Centers for Reading Research in Stavanger agree. There's a lot of people, a lot of individuals, this applies. Åse Wisløff Nilssen often uses the comparison that a PRM needs a wheelchair – the dyslexic needs a PC with suitable software and professional literature on sound. They're both disabled, and they need the necessary help. We've been able to understand one, but less easily to understand the other. I am pleased that the Council of State has taken the initiative – the promises he has made today – in relation to exactly the problems that have been raised, and I sincerely hope that this can help the people who need this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e176	With such broad consensus and with actually as much enthusiasm and great commitment as it has been in this debate, I am optimistic in the future. But I don't think there's any reason for any of us to believe that the job is done today. I believe that there is a lot left here, and each of us must follow up on this matter continuously. I am very pleased with the post that the representative Wohnning held, who was perhaps even sharper in shape than mine when it came to enquiries to schools and colleges. I would also like to know if there might not be any reason to remind you a little about the deadlines for when you have to start planning things. I believe that some of the problems with getting sensors come from the fact that it comes a little like the Christmas evening on the ring. It's not on the agenda, and you forget it until the last minute. Then there's going to be a problem. So to the question of two sensors. I see all counter-conceptions that you can have against such a thought. But the point is probably also to remind yourself a little bit that oral exams are often conducted with one sensor in other subjects. You don't always put an equal question mark on it. You put some extra question marks on these exams, which might be a reason, but there might also be some reason to relax. Examinations usually come at the same time of the year for all schools, and there may be some practical problems associated with what makes it difficult, and there may be grounds for looking at such solutions. Then I realize that the government council and I fully agree that into the school system the door should be made high and the gate at, and that where you come through that gate, you have to have an organized education. The examination and evaluation requirements shall then be of a quality equivalent but practical nature. I therefore hope that the Council of State may confirm in the last round that the enquiry he is now going to send to the schools can also include reminding you that such things take time, and that we should ensure that the time limits needed to put this into practice are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e187	Sometimes it becomes a joy after an interpellation debate and after things happen in the Storting. Sometimes I feel that we're not always as open to listen to others. But sometimes it happens, and I have to say that even if we had seen this working group going on, the concreteization here is necessary. And I'm very much in agreement with Petter Løvik – I think it was – who said that the student who has taken the strain of standing up, of course, has done more to open up, because of the media review, than what we are actually doing here in the storeroom. So I'm completely in agreement with that observation. I also thought that the representative's reference to this with the economy is a very correct idea that I should include in the letter. So it's clear that thinking about things in the heart is always important. And of course I'll do that. But I want to remind you that we actually have, not only because of the Right's proposal a few years ago about a collective plan, but also because of a number of other things – but they were in it – just introduced diagnostic tests, mandatory, in the second class. Even if we're not so much for new extensive diagnostic tests initially, I've said that we have to have it in that area, when it comes to reading, in order to catch up with the troubles in time and then get started. The representative's wage point of this, along with other things, has led to it, and that makes me think we're going to do it much faster in the future. I'm also going to take me along and evaluate the piece that the interpellant brought with it in relation to a need for time for planning etc., but now I'm going to evaluate it a little bit in relation to what a context we're sending out the letter. I think it's very good with ideas, but I think it's a good idea to send a letter, that one might also have a process on it in relation to a professional environment. I have recorded that many are concerned about changes when it comes to sensors, and that was well the doubt I also had. So I take that with me, but I'm still going to take a professional review of it. I don't think it's that way that it's all right now. I don't think there's always so much bad will going out and going. But I think when you're not close to a problem, and when you're going to go through a lot of terms, it's easy that you don't do what should be done. Then it's important, like this: we get it out in public, and in addition we see action now in the ministry. It's okay sometimes to get a reminder that someone needs to speed up. And in this case, I do it with great joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e198	So the debate is on case No. Five done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e212	My honor with this interpellation is trying to make a small contribution to creating a slightly safer society, because I think we depend on a faster and more effective fight against crime. Minor misdemeanors today lead to heavy burdens on the police, the prosecution authority and the courts. Things are being desecrated or accumulated in the legal system. This is, as I say in my interpellation, to weaken people's sense of justice. When the offender is not held responsible for his actions, respect for law and order will be undermined. We therefore need to develop more flexible solutions to reduce the pressures on police, prosecution authorities and courts in dealing with minor offences today. An instrument to achieve this is to open up increased use of simplified proposals. Police resources can then be released to strengthen the fight against crime and, in particular, serious crime, such as organised crime. The use of simplified presentations will be an appropriate tool in more cases than at present. However, there are some assumptions that must be present. Simplification requires, inter alia: that there is no conflict with the facts. This would essentially mean that the action was observed by an official. This is a criminal reaction in which a person asks individuals without legal qualifications to admit guilt. It is therefore necessary to require a qualified and sound legal assessment. Where these considerations are taken into account, we should consider whether we can increase the use of simplified presentations. I want to address in this interpellation two areas where we can save resources and streamline the criminal chain by using simplified proposals to a greater extent than today. The first is about minor offences at sea. On land, it is possible for the police in selected areas to assign decision-making powers to each official in the event of minor infringements, by publishing simplified presentations. The simplified system of submissions is a great help in improving the effectiveness of the criminal action chain. It is not necessary to write a notification, a notification which must again be sent to the public prosecutor for a decision. The case can be settled with a rapid on-site criminal response, which is an advantage for all parties. So the thing is out of the world. Such a form of decision for minor infringements does not exist at sea. Each official must write and record a separate notification for each infringement and must be sent to the prosecution authority. This seizes large resources that both officials and prosecution authorities could use for more important tasks. There will also be an unreasonable difference between minor infringements at sea and on land, as those who have committed minor infringements at sea are reported to the police and thus also registered in the Penalty Register. This can be corrected by giving the possibility to issue simplified presentations also at sea. At all events, there is a potential to increase the effectiveness of the criminal action chain by implementing a simplified system of submissions in ‘maritime matters’. The same problem arises in less serious criminal cases, for example: in the case of shoplifting. These cases are often tried in conflict councils. Conflict advice is a positive mechanism, but will not be a good solution in many of these cases. The shops do not have the capacity to meet in all the different cases. This leads to many cases being resolved. In addition, a number of cases are pending because of a lack of capacity on the part of the prosecution authority. When such minor cases are dropped so often, a signal is sent to the offenders: it's just to keep going. Lawbreakers wonder that it is not being reacted by the police. There will also be a significant improvement in the effectiveness of the criminal procedure if the use of simplified proposals can be increased. This may be done by granting superior authority to the pilot/station manager level. This makes it possible to determine the case almost immediately after the exercise, and the prosecution authority in the police district is not charged. Equally important is the fact that this will strengthen the overall preventive effect by ensuring that the action has a clear impact on the offender quickly and not just being blamed. Against this background, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if he wants to take the initiative for a change in the law, so that the police are given greater opportunity to issue simplified submissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e244	The starting point for the possibility for the prosecution authority to settle criminal cases is that less serious cases can be decided by the prosecution authority itself by providing for a waiver of charges, transferring the case to the conflict board or making submissions. Most criminal cases and some criminal cases are decided in this way. The other cases in which a criminal action is to be taken must be brought before the Court. In the following, I would like to examine in more detail the possibility of the prosecution authority to settle criminal cases, including in general simplified submissions. I would like to address the issue of infringements at sea in more detail and, finally, whether or not simplified submissions can also be used for other matters. Discharge of charges is used in cases where the purpose is to be regarded as proven, but where there are particular circumstances and the prosecution authority, after an overall assessment, finds that what can be achieved by being convicted is not proportionate to what it will cost him, his family or society. In particular, transfer to conflict management is used in matters relating to the criminality of profits, theft of use and damage, and in the case of younger offenders. There must be a notification of offended and, where appropriate, appropriate prosecution. Furthermore, criminal guilt must be regarded as proven. Both offended and intentional must consent to the matter being transferred to the conflict council. Commodities are of primary importance in criminal matters but are also used to a certain extent in criminal matters. A proposed act has the same effect as a judgment. The presentation shall be entered in the Register of Fines and shall give a fine. A proposal must be adopted by the person to whom it is addressed, if that is not the case, before the courts. In the case of simplified presentations, such presentations may be made by an official without a judicial authority, in contrast to the abovementioned decisions. The rationale for the introduction of the simplified system in its time was efficiency. The purpose of a simplified presentation is to be able to work out on the spot. This presupposes inter alia: that he is legally entitled to adopt the proposal on the spot. He/she may, for example: are not under the authority or influence of alcohol, drugs, etc. Furthermore, there must be no need for prosecution. The issues that may be relevant for decision-making with simplified presentation must be to find one of the issues that are now settled with ordinary presentation. And if such an extension has any gain, the file type(s) must have a certain volume. Furthermore, simplified submissions will only be relevant in the case of infringements which are demonstrably simple and which are suitable for the determination of standard fines. An additional condition must be that, for the purposes of the penalty, it is unthinkable to respond with a simplified presentation. Simplification can only be applied in case types where the law expressly provides for such access. Under current law, this is the case of selected infringements of the Road Traffic Act and the Customs Act. In the autumn of 1998, the Ministry of Justice set up a selection to look at the possibility of using simplified submissions for certain infringements at sea. The sample should identify the infringements that may be relevant for the use of simplified submissions. Attention was to be paid to readily detectable and documented mass violations. The Committee’s ‘Introduction of the use of simplified submissions for selected infringements committed in the context of small boat traffic’ of 14 December 1999 has been consulted on 25 February 2000. In the setting up, the presentation is simplified as appropriate for the following infringements: breach of the registration provisions in breach of the rules on life-saving and floating equipment infringement of the rules on the carriage of lanterns breach of the rules on minimum age for the carriage of certain types of boats breach of the rules on minimum age of entrustment breach of the rules on the movement of public bathing spaces breach of the rules on the restriction of navigation at bathing places breach of the rules on the restriction of navigation in local regulations These infringements are distinguished by the fact that the police officer himself discovers and writes a simplified report on the situation. The fact of the matter is therefore generally correct. The ratios are numerous and the fines are almost standardised. I am in favour of changes that result in the use of simplified presentation in such cases as I have mentioned here. The Ministry will now follow up the comments received at the hearing and present this as a matter for the Stortinget as soon as possible. In 1999, the Ministry of Justice also set up two working groups to go through different parts of the criminal chain with a view to identifying time-consuming and proposing efficiency measures. The working parties shall, according to their mandate, report in writing by 31 June 2000 at the latest. However, it is provided that the en route groups provide interim reports with proposals for measures to improve efficiency. Such interim reports have been submitted. One of the working parties shall examine the procedure from notification to prosecution. This is included in an interim report. the possibility of extension of access to the use of simplified presentation. In this context, it has examined a number of types of cases, including theft and Nazism, to see if they are suitable for decision by simple presentation. Statistics on the types of cases decided at the time of submission in 1998 have been taken into account. The working group points out that there are several aspects that speak against the use of simplified presentations, such as: that there may be evidence of complexity, that the perpetrator will not be able to be punished on the spot because of intoxication, or that the use of a simplified device would result in an undesirable decriminalisation of serious conditions. However, the Working Party recommends that the Ministry of Justice further examine the possibility of introducing the use of simplified submissions for infringements of certain provisions, such as: urination in public places, drinking pools, improper personalia and disturbances of general order and peace. In addition, the working group does not consider that there appears to be a basis for extending, in particular, access to the use of simplified presentations. This also applies to matters such as theft and Nazism. Here the reports will rarely come from the police officer who has observed the criminal act. The notification is usually from the storekeeper or watchkeeping company. The submissions may be scarce and incomplete in terms of both personal details and actions, and the case therefore needs to be investigated in retrospect in order to find the right person to do and what has actually happened. Such cases cannot be settled on the ground, such as road traffic and maritime infringements. The Ministry will continue to work on the proposals and views contained in the reports of the working parties. To sum up, I am, as mentioned, in favour of using simplified submissions to a greater extent against infringements at sea, but cannot now see that simplified submissions will be appropriate in response to such offences as theft and Nazism.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e307	I must say that I am pleased with the answer given by the Minister of Justice. I'm a representative from the happy summer town of Drøbak, at one of the most trafficked healthy in Norway, and where we have a lot of holiday guests who are excited about the meeting with this charming city. I am therefore particularly pleased that parts of what can be committed in this intoxicated state, can also be thought to be decided by simplified submissions, without me going into any detail about what it is. I understand the Minister's concerns that noxies can be decided on the spot. However, I would like to ask that the conflict management system be assessed in this context, because there are a few of the cases that are brought before the conflict management board, which is decided there – according to my local Länsmannskontoret – because the shops have little opportunity to meet in connection with these minor offences. Otherwise, what the Minister of Justice has brought seems promising. But I'd like to ask that the simplified presentations that he could imagine using in the event of marine accidents, may be introduced from the coming summer season. That would be appreciated by representatives from the happy summer village Drøbak.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e318	Does State Council want the word Dørum? - He doesn't. Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e323	The debate has shown so far that the initiatives requested by the inter-pellant have already been taken by the Minister of Justice. That's good, we think in the Working Party, even though we might be a little surprised that the partymates couldn't clarify it in a simpler way than doing it here. That's it. The Council of State also expresses – as I understand him – a general scepticism to expand the system of simplified submissions, and we think that is a healthy scepticism. The few openings he refers to seem innocent enough. Also, the openings with regard to faults when using a boat seem innocent enough, as we have parallels to the same with regard to the use of a car. But there are more considerations that need to be taken than the fact that the courts are being relieved in this context. Bringing a case into a legal system is considered by most people to be a lot more serious than getting a fine where you just quit the case on the spot. We do not want to send a signal e.g. to shopkeepers that this is no more serious than that one can get rid of the whole thing by adopting a fine. In addition, in the vast majority of shoplifting cases the case is reported, because there is very rarely a policeman standing there and observing what is going on. And so when the review is done, there's no way to issue a simplified piece of paper. Consideration must also be given to considerations of legal certainty. The fact that the policeman should be the one observing the truth makes the evidence simple and simple. In addition, we have to make sure that the person who has done something wrong comes with an unreserved confession and denies all the rights in relation to the case by adopting a simplified proposal. So I'm going to think that those who get drunk when they get to Droopback will actually be in a state that makes simplified presentations not issueable, precisely because they're in a state that makes them not predictable enough to be able to adopt a simplified suggestion. But in particular, I react to the attitude of the conflict council that the interpellant expresses in the interpellant text, where he refers – I left the text – to the fact that the transfer to the conflict council reduces respect for law and order. That's what I think is a most perceptive statement, which I expect stands for the interpellant's own account, and not for the Left Party or the Government. The Council of Conflict is one of the most successful forms of reaction we have. The vast majority of those who are young feel that it's hard to get in there, meet insulted and make up for it. It is true that both parties, both insulted and depraved, must agree to this in order to be dealt with by the Council of Conflict. If shopkeepers do not have the opportunity to meet, they do not agree to this either. Furthermore, it is wrong that no agreements are concluded. On the contrary, in the vast majority of cases agreements are concluded, and these agreements are held in more than 95 pst. of the cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e334	The representative, Mr. Timberås, said that most of the initiatives requested by the interpellant have already been taken. I fully agree with that. I would also like to stress that the initiatives that the interpellant is calling for and that have not been taken, we do not want to be taken either. This is particularly true of the views of the conflict councils. I would like to highlight very briefly the Right's position on it. We do not want to send that signal to young offenders, for example. in connection with – as innocent as it had to be heard – nurturing in shops, that there is something we look at with overbearingness. On the contrary, we want to give clear and unambiguous signals about this, not least because it will very often be about young offenders who are on the bale for the first time and who need the reaction of a conflict council. But even more important than that is the success of the conflict councils. It turns out time and time again at the rate of relapse for those who encounter this tough reaction form. And here it's not about the Council of State, interpellant or my perception of what a sharp reaction is, but how it's perceived by the one who's exposed to it. And everything suggests that the youth himself thinks this is a serious way of meeting society's reactions. So my conclusion is very clear. I think that the Council of State has, in an exemplary way, gone through the areas where it makes sense to look at simplified submissions, and I think he has set a clear limit in relation to the areas where you're not going to use it. Once again, I would like to stress the signal effect on young offenders, and the success, the success, the success, with the conflict councils is talking about keeping the system that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e347	I want the word to clarify something. It has clearly been perceived there that the Left should have something against the conflict council, that is not the case. In that case, I have expressed myself clumsily. What has been my concern, on the other hand, is that the transmission to the Council of Conflict does not always lead to the objective, and it is in such cases that other forms of reaction should be considered. But I agree with those who have spoken that the Minister of Justice has made this clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e352	Then we can sum up the following: it's good to use simplified facilities on the sea, which have a parallel with road traffic. It's also good because we're gradually getting a life form on land that's moving to the sea, and also because there's someone who's moving on the sea as if it's a car they're driving – to say it that way. It was then, for example. also important that, with support, last year, the Government could introduce a pro-mille provision at sea in order to mark it as well. With regard to the other signals that have arrived, I absolutely believe in the conflict council and believe that it is a very important tool, not least to combat much of the childhood and youth crime. Unfortunately, this is not enough, but it is an important tool. I perceived the representative Johansen so that he was probably concerned about the cases where the advice did not work. But then it's not the problem of abolishing advice, but of discussing how we can help them to function. And if for special reasons it doesn't work, the problem is to maintain the seriousness of the advice. At least that's my basic attitude. And my basic attitude also in terms of theft is that there's some kind of business that I don't want to decriminalize. It was a few years ago that theft was a private matter between the individual citizen and the insurance company. An initiative was taken with broad political coverage and with the active efforts of the Riksadvokat, who has criminalised this activity, who has said that we do not tolerate this, and that is also my basic position. But with the contributions made, there does not seem to be any particular disagreement about these conclusions, so we can conclude that there has been a quiet and peaceful debate with broad consensus. I'm not going to be as lyrical as Councillor Lilletun was after a debate in a completely different field, I'm going to stick to the legal level and say that we agreed where it was necessary, and where it was to be set limit, we also agreed to keep the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e365	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President wants to add that the debate was also simplified here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e371	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e378	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, by Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Right and Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 5-9, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 10 and 11, by Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 12, by Rune E. Kristiansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 13, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist People's Party The vote is first on the minority proposals and then on the setting. Proposal No. 10, from the Right, is taken up to voting. The President assumes that SV will support the proposal. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e407	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e414	Arne Lyngstad – for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e417	The president went ahead of me a little quickly. I would like to give a little explanation of vote on the proposals that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e424	Time is definitely in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e427	Yes. This concerns the proposals put forward in the Chamber today, No. 12 and 13. [[Laughter]] As regards proposal No: 12, the Council of State has just started this work to get the information up to Stortinget, so I would recommend the representatives of the central parties to vote in favour of that proposal. As regards proposal No: 13, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, I would like to propose, having regard to Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure, not to take the proposal into consideration. It's been made after the deadline, at 1:00 a.m. 9 today, and we think it's an unkind treatment to make suggestions so late. We don't think this should be allowed to form a precedent for the future. I would therefore ask that the representatives of the central parties vote not to take the proposal into consideration, and I have also understood it so that these views are shared by the fractions of the Right and the Progressive Party of the Education Committee. In the case of option VII, I would recommend that the representatives of the centre parties vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e440	The President will come back to what was suggested when we get so far in the order of proposals. Petter Løvik – for the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e445	In addition to the proposals where the Right is the author or co-rapporteur, I would urge the Right-wing Group to vote in favour of proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. When this is the case, the Right vote for it, with the exception of II and VI. In the case of the distributed proposals, proposals No. 12 and 13, the Right will vote in favour of the proposal put forward by Rune E. Kristiansen on behalf of the Labour Party, proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox In the case of proposal No: 13, Arne Lyngstad has done everything possible for our view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e454	Then the president assumes that we can take a step further on the voting path. There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a reduction in the threshold for entering the Northern Norway Mechanism from 20 p.m. to 10 pst. unskilled teachers at each school. At the same time, counting time is shifted from 1 September to 1 November in order to get a more accurate picture of the actual situation at each school.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e470	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for changes in teacher education with a view to establishing differentiated approaches to the stage, middle and early stages of education for the past 2 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e484	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5, 6, 7 and 8, of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider various measures to ensure that several Norwegian young people take teacher training abroad.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess the benefits and disadvantages of introducing a flexible wage setting for the school.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to work to open up tariff agreements to a greater geographical differentiation of teacher’s salaries.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to work for liberalised teachers’ dismissal protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e515	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to work to increase the use of exposure and annual target positions in terms of the recruitment of school leaders.’ The right has notified its subsidiary aid here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e533	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to ensure that the school is adequately qualified teachers. In order for the school to offer competitive pay, the relative pay levels of teacher groups need to be increased.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e547	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take the initiative in raising the admission requirements for general teacher education.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer the negotiating responsibility of the teaching staff from the State to the county/municipality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e568	The president notices that there's a little bit of an uneven number here, and asks the representatives to press the button in time. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a development pot for each school, an overview of the costs of upgrading public school buildings to meet the requirements of the regulation on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools, and satisfactory workplaces for teachers. It is assumed that the State and the municipality enter into a partnership and agree on both organisation and funding to meet the commitments.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e584	Furthermore, there is a proposal from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 13, which reads: ‘The Government asks for the maintenance of the 2 pedagogues in each 1st grade when the number of students exceeds 18’.» This proposal has been made after the time limit for proposals to be put forward. However, the President will initially not object to the application of the proposal as a matter of fact, but will respond to the objections which may arise from other parties in the Chamber. The President has received at least one opinion on the subject. It's from Mr. Crowley's office. Mr Lyngstad proposed that paragraph 28(d) of the Rules of Procedure be applied. The President will first ask the representatives to press the for-button so that we can record how many are present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e600	We are now voting on the proposal from the representative of Lyngstad that proposal No. 13 are not taken during treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e610	This means that more than one fifth have voted for the proposal not to be considered. Proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide the Stortinget with an appropriate presentation of the monitoring of the situation of schools in the municipal economy carried out by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research in cooperation with the education offices and the county members.’ The President has noticed that the Progress Party and the Right, as far as the President could understand, want to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e637	The President has understood that the Progress Party here wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e655	Here the President has perceived that the Right wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e691	The President has understood that the Labour Party here wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e709	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e728	Here the president is somewhat uncertain, but assumes that the centre parties are against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e754	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 3, from Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to present its own case for the establishment of independent school supervision, based on qualitative objectives.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of an independent body of complaint for the education sector, with its mandate, organisation and management function.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e784	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a separate case to the Stortinget for the establishment and mandate of independent school supervision.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party will now subsidize the proposal. That's where the president misunderstands, and it shakes his head vigorously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e813	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposals are as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for the reorganization of primary school youth, with a view to increasing students’ freedom of choice and greater opportunities for professional immersion.’2 ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the regulations of the Training Act so that the electoral profession can count on the calculation of the competitive score for admission to higher education.’3 ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change in the requirements for the competence of primary school teachers so that teachers who teach theoretical knowledge should have at least one year of professional immersion in the subject.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e840	During the debate, Mr Løvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for measures to stimulate the recruitment of lecturers to secondary school through targeted improvements in the funding of studies for practical and pedagogical education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e864	To Case No 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02-2.ana.ud2178e873	There is no record.
