ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-lower-2.ana.ud502e39	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is Odd Eriksen. Odd Eriksen has up to 5 minutes of speaking time, and he speaks on behalf of the case spokesperson, who is a member of the Lagninget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-lower-2.ana.ud502e48	Prime Minister Stoltenberg said earlier today that the government would think carefully through and give matters a thorough treatment before they were presented to the Stortinget. This case is an example of the opposite, where the Storting on its own initiative has had to do legal work to correct deficiencies that have arisen along the way. The starting point for the case is that the government of Bondevik proposed to abolish both the strict and the mild regulation on the housing market, as the Stortinget treated last March. After all, there were so many weaknesses in the design of the law that the Stortinget had to intervene just before Christmas and re-examine the matter through a separate Document No. Eight proposals. As early as the New Year, further changes were needed, which marked the date of Document No. The 8-proposal that we are discussing today. I won't extend the debate much. But to put it carefully, this is not the way to deal with difficult regulatory issues that affect very many individuals. I hope that the new government will follow up the Prime Minister's statement, so that we will release this kind of legal process for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-lower-2.ana.ud502e59	I find out that Odd Eriksen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, today comes up with a criticism that is quite similar to the criticism we have included in the vote. At that time, the Labour Party was not interested in confirming any criticism of the method of dealing that had been, but the Stortinget has had a few days of seminar since we gave this position – and before the debate came – where one was very concerned about having neat relations between the various parts of the administration and the Stortinget, the legislative and executive assembly in Norway. I think it's been a very messy race from the former government. It became fairly quickly clear that the immediate proposal we had before Christmas did not measure up to some problems in relation to the technique, and that instead of promoting a separate bill from the department, a bill was made that was then brought to the Stortinget and asked the depositors to promote it, it is inexcusable. The right-hand party also chose not to be part of the legislative proposal. There was an unfair way to do it, and I'm afraid there may be several holes in this law because it has not been through the quality assurance process that it should be under law. The second part is, of course, that we did not agree with the main regulatory standard of the house rental law that was passed, and we believe – that is justified in the setting – that some rentals are increased extra much because it is three years until the next time you have the opportunity to increase the rentals beyond the house rental regulation standard after the new regulation regime. At the top of it all, I think the majority is very confused about how this legal text should be understood in relation to how much you can actually increase the rent by in regulation this year. That you allow such a great amount of confusion, that is, what we have tried to clarify that you have to cover 50 pst. of the gap between the level of today's rent and the number of people's rent, leads to a small bomb being placed here, both in relation to the fact that the case can be brought to justice because you can have a practice that seems unreasonable, and because in three years you can have marked rental increases again. And then I wonder how the same parties that have now been active are going to react if you, for example. gets 100 pst. Rent increases then, because you have made a law that is now very unclear. We have opted for the nomination subsidiaryly, because we believe there is a need for softer transitions. But this is a problem law, which should have been handled differently by the Ministry of Local Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-lower-2.ana.ud502e68	I agree with both the representative from the Right and representatives from the Labour Party in the criticism that has come against the previous government for handling this case. What I disagree with them in is that this "appeared". It was that some of us saw these problems very early, and SV has worked hard to get through the changes that have now come. But it is critical that it is the kind of work you have to do when you see that things are going wrong. It has been a little uplifting that it has gradually been possible to get a majority to look at it again, and that there is now unanimity that this must be cleared up. So the representative, Erna Solberg, says that she believes that the legal text that is now available also has some ambiguities in it. There's a certain room for discretion with the new law. From the SV we were clear that we could well imagine a summary provision that said 25 pst., and finished it, because we were not interested in creating a legal text that provided the basis for further proceedings and legal proceedings. Then there was a strong desire both from the government and from the majority to put in a small opportunity for discretion. But that possibility is narrow, and it's very clear, so it's about an increase that's going to be small in dollars, and that once you've regulated it up, you're still way under the rent of the crowd. So the reality is that the third year after these rules you will get a jump in the rent up to the rent of the crowd. It's been clear the whole way. All the batches involved in the treatment have been aware of this. In the vote, a majority says that the only instrument that can bring the rent price into the market down to a level that allows people with low and usual incomes to make their expenses is a huge investment in the construction of rental homes. It's the technique if you want the prices down, so that the rent, or market rent, gets lower. So it's not possible to do it through the regulations we've made now. Now it is also the case that municipal apartments fall within the scope of this law, except that housing leases as a dispute-making body cannot be applied to municipal apartments, because then there are problems of stability because a municipally-appointed house lease subject cannot review municipal decisions. They now have to deal with the pricing system, which is a system that costs money to spend, and it's a problem for people who have poor advice and who have problems coping with a house rent increase. Otherwise, the Stortinget has adopted a dispute resolution body which the previous government has not started. There is a unanimous committee that now asks the Government to speed up this work. I expect that the new Council of State will do that, as she has been very committed to the solution of this question. Then we may be left with one problem, and that's what we do when municipalities also act as house sharks – when they with apartments and properties that they have acquired partly with large government grants, rent out at sky-high prices or even sell with great profit. It's a problem that I expect the new Council of State will look at, because it's about ensuring that the few social rental homes we have in this country are used for the purpose they're going to be used for, that's to give a home to people who need a low rent to handle their boutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-lower-2.ana.ud502e83	I just want to stress that the former government is making a good proposal for a new rental law that would replace two older laws. This proposal was largely co-consulted in Stortinget and will prove to be a very good contribution to a modern law that can work in a market when it comes to renting issues. It's a little strange to say that Odd Eriksen, as the first representative who had the word here, expresses some wonder that the proposal that was adopted to say "consist" in the Stortinget should not be good enough – even if he and his party end up doing so. The laws adopted a year ago in Stortinget will work well, and it was high time that this bill was produced. The bill was made for the first time in confidence that the market would behave normally, and for the second time on the condition that we would get a housing tax in particular in municipalities where the pressure tendencies were visible. The following two arrangements have not been entirely met. Even if the former government increases the permits to the House Bank relatively dramatically, and in addition, in the current year, we have had a good chance of building housing for the disadvantaged, these press communities have not shown their responsibilities deliberately to initiate a housing project in order to remedy the housing pressure that we see. So there's a couple of rashes that were unintentional, and there's these two outcomes that the committee, in consultation with the ministry, has decided to fix, and give the possibility of a step-by-step increase in rents, so that those who could risk a greater increase than expected would get a controlled situation. This is the purpose and background of the rather consensual proposal that is being put forward here tonight. We complement a good piece of legislation by closing a few exceptions that unfortunately some of them have been exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-lower-2.ana.ud502e92	I'm glad that there's such a large majority in the municipal committee and in the Stortinget that there's a need to go in and regulate, so it's not possible to make such large house rentals from one month to another, or from one year to another, as we saw someone did for a period. I just want to comment on one thing that the municipal committee has been concerned about, and that the representative Andersen also addressed in his statement, and that is the question of the rental commission, which has not yet been set up. The size has asked the Government to initiate such a selection, and it intends to do so. I would like to inform you that we intend to send out a proposal for a hearing around Easter hours, and after that round of consultations, it will be a priority task on the part of the Ministry to complete the regulation as quickly as possible. I would also like to inform you that the establishment, of course, requires that you get some people in place. We need a sample leader and a secretariat, and we need to provide premises. This will necessarily take some time. But I want to inform you again that this is a priority task, and I hope we get the sample on our legs as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-lower-2.ana.ud502e101	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-lower-2.ana.ud502e109	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-lower-2.ana.ud502e189	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23-lower-2.ana.ud502e197	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
