ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e15	The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Erling Brandsnes, has taken the seat. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has requested a welfare permit from the representative of Thore Aksel Nistad from the beginning of the evening meeting on 9 March and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Fredrik Färber, is invited to meet during the period of leave. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e59	I would like to ask the President to have some time in addition to the allocated speaking time because of the importance of the matter and the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e64	With the approval of the Chamber, the President will agree to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e67	Today’s debate – and the committee’s position – confirms that the Government has taken advantage of the broad lines of our policy for the conversion of the country’s energy consumption and production. I'm glad. It is a disappointment that the Government will work to limit energy consumption. It is a surprise that the Government will invest in the new renewable energy sources – they are future energy sources. The objective is to build 3 TWh wind power by 2010 and 4 TWh waterborne heat based on new renewable energy sources, heat pumps and waste heat. This is ambitious, but necessary. We need to focus on a conversion to renewable energy and consumption constraints. At one important point, the government does not have the bulk of the population. This concerns the view of the legislation on the construction of gas power plants. The dispute does not really concern the question of whether gas should be used domestically in the energy supply. That's what the government is going to do. But it has to be done in a way that is best for the environment, it has to be done in accordance with the law and our international obligations. The government's option is not the long-term import of coal power, as sought. The Kyoto agreement of 1997 has imposed new obligations on Norway. By 2010, Norway will have to cut its national CO2 emissions by about 23 pst. compared to predicted emissions. This will be very demanding and costly. Building the polluting gas power plant in Norway, we will be even more distant from meeting our Kyoto obligations. The relevant gas power plants on Kårstø and Kolsnes alone will increase CO2 emissions by a further 4-6 pst, corresponding to emissions from approximately 700000 passenger cars. If applied to gaseous power plants, the load will be even higher on other sectors that will have to bear the burden of the increased cuts — for example. other industries, households, transport, etc. Today, we have no certainty that a strong increase in emissions in Norway will reduce emissions in other countries. The professional bodies to which the opposition refers have not given such bombastic opinions on this as are sometimes perceived. The Kyoto agreement opens up the purchase and sale of allowances, but it is too easy to believe that Norway can thereby buy free of all the obligations of the Kyoto agreement. The agreement states that the purchase of allowances shall be complementary to national measures. We should therefore base ourselves on taking at least half of the obligations here at home. The Kyoto Agreement is a historic first step towards a more sustainable climate policy. That is why we have to end it, fulfil our national obligations and do nothing that could undermine the agreement. Our neighbouring countries will also take the Kyoto agreement seriously. Sweden is undergoing a major conversion of energy supply. Denmark plans to reduce coal-based power generation in order to reduce its CO2 emissions. Faced with the conversion of our neighbouring countries, Norwegian gas power plants in the years to come may be competing with Danish, Swedish and Norwegian investments in bioenergy, wind power, heat pumps and other renewable energy. Furthermore, in Norway, we have an opportunity for many other countries to do so. We can reinject the CO2 gas into the oil and gas fields in the North Sea. This can reduce, yes, almost eliminate, CO2 emissions and also contribute to the better use of our petroleum resources on the continental shelf. There are opportunities for future gas power generation in Norway. There are such forward-looking solutions the government is working for. The debate is also not about the construction of gas power plants now. With current electricity prices, profitability is not good enough. Of course, this applies to both the polluting gas power plants and modern solutions that can become practically pollution-free. When large gas power plants are first built in Norway, I think it will be environmentally friendly gas power plants – virtually free of CO2 emissions. The challenge will then be to accelerate the best technological solutions and to facilitate the framework conditions so that it pays to build and operate the pollution-free gas power plants, not to facilitate them with today's technology. An important contribution to this, and to ensuring that gas power plants actually reduce CO2 emissions in a larger perspective, is that we quickly put in place a national quota system so that gas power plants cannot pollute freely and free of charge. This would be in line with the polluter-pays principle. This is what the Government is in favour of, and there should also be a majority for it in the Grand Duchy. In its proposal I, the majority proposes to decide that the Government should convert the emission requirements laid down by the competent body, the State pollution control body, under the pollution law. I would like to stress here that the Government has to make sure that it is possible to realise the intention of the proposal within the framework of the law. The Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice has issued a comprehensive opinion in which this is disputed. It's not the government that contests it, as Stoltenberg has said, it's the law department that actually does. I expect without further ado that the Stortinget as a legislative body agrees that a conversion decision must be in agreement with the law. The administration and the government are not allowed to do anything else either. The administration's legal right to convert administrative decisions is governed by law, regulations and administrative judgement. According to the Legal Department, the government’s power of conversion is not increased even if the plenary assembly decides to oblige the Government to ensure that a decision is converted. The Legal Department is recognised in both the legal and the political environment in terms of understanding the law. Both the government and the magnificence must deal with its opinion in a serious way. As regards the majority proposal I, the Legal Service states that there is no legal access to propose such relaxations in the emission permits granted on the basis of the rules of Section 18 of the First subparagraph of the Pollution Act. 4 or paragraph 6th@item: inlistbox It goes on to say that under certain actual conditions, however, there may be access to such conversion on the basis of paragraph 18 of the first paragraph of the Act. 5th@item: inlistbox This will require both compliance with the requirements of the relevant EU Directive, which is also implemented in Norway, and it will require equivalent or greater reductions in similar emissions from other sources. The legislative department clarifies that it is essential that such emission reductions can be considered safe. It goes on to say that in this context it will be important to have legal certainty that the other emissions will be reduced. The Legal Department also clarifies that these assessments can apply not only in the short term but also in the long term. The Legal Service therefore raises justified doubts about the consistency of the majority proposal I. These conditions require careful evaluation and proper procedure. It has not been clearly stated that the majority's proposal I can be implemented within today's legislation. This can therefore be done by the Government if it wishes to return to and inform the Storting appropriately. After first assuming that the conversion of the emission requirements for the construction of gas power plants is within the pollution law, the Labour Party and the Right have now clearly come into doubt. After all, there must be a background for the parties to propose a new proposal yesterday evening to amend the pollution law. Firstly, this shows that the parties have done too little work in dealing with this matter. They have used legal expertise but will not publish their material. So now they've had to come up with a new proposal in the last few minutes to try to achieve their goals. Secondly, this shows that there is no longer any clear line in the Labour Party's climate policy. The Pollution Act has been an important environmental policy tool, and not least former workers' party governments have underlined it. The Pollution Act is a key instrument in environmental policy. So now the Workers' Party is also ready to work on it. We again experience a change in course from the Workers' Party on important political issues. It is therefore useful that government parties seek clarification as to whether the pollution law should be an as strong environmental policy instrument as it has been to date. This is the background to the proposal by the parliamentary leaders of the parties before the debate today. The majority of the population are asking for feedback to the Storting on various issues: this concerns the issue of possible changes to the pollution law, it concerns the development of different schemes to drive gas power plants clean-up technologies, and it concerns the issue of whether the previous decisions on emission requirements for the gas power plants concerned can be transposed within the current law. The Government may notify the Stortinget of these questions in the form of a wholesale notification by 1 June of this year. Within that time, we shall, as far as time permits, have a careful review and thorough assessment of all these questions. For its part, the government will not recommend changes to the pollution law in a way that weakens it. But of course, the Storting should like to be presented with the material and the legal formulations it may want. So if there's going to be changes in the law, and in which case, it won't be decided until later. Then we will also be able to clarify more about the framework conditions for pollution-free gas power plants, and we will know whether a conversion of previous emission requirements will be compatible with the applicable pollution law. We will explain what changes in emission requirements or changes in the pollution law will entail in relation to international obligations, such as: the current EU Directive. We can also address the issue of whether the law should have a conversion facility that provides access to increased emission requirements as new international obligations require. It's this procedure that the government wants to base. As stated so far, the Pollution Act has been an important instrument in environmental policy. The law was adopted in its time under Gro Harlem Brundtland's first government, and she was a strong defender of the law. The next Prime Minister of the Labour Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, followed up and defended the law. In his time as Prime Minister, it was established that polluting emissions from gas power plants were to be treated under the pollution law. Then came, on the basis of the law, a decision from the State pollution control authority that the Workers' Party was satisfied with at the time, but later did not like. However, the Labour Party maintained that the applicable pollution law will continue to apply and be used in relation to gas power plants. The leader of the party, Thorbjørn Jagland, said in the evening post on 26 January of this year, i.e. just a month and a half ago, the following: ‘It is not true that we have changed our vision as to whether CO2 emissions from gas power plants are to be treated under the pollution law. We still believe that they must until an international quota system is in place." Such a system is, as you know, absolutely not in place. The central government wants to continue the important environmental policy instrument of the pollution law. The law is one of the pillars of environmental policy. Weakening the law will be a setback in environmental policy. Such a setback will not be included in the central government. If the Workers' Party is voting against the proposal of the parliamentary leaders of the Centre Parties not to weaken the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument, the Workers' Party has left yet another margin in environmental policy. Earlier today, the party's parliamentary leader, Jens Stoltenberg, said that the party is voting for what they are in favour of and against what they are against. However, in connection with the current proposal, Jens Stoltenberg has announced that the Labour Party is really in favour of the content of the proposal, but will vote against the proposal. It's not good in hops. Such an action, and the party's reverse operation, is showing more and more what is the Workers' Party's actual agenda a day. The game is constantly changing its position to frame the Government. It is difficult to see this as anything but distrust of central parts of the government's environmental policy. I would therefore like to make it clear that if the proposal from the centre parties not to weaken the pollution law as an environmental instrument would not be adopted, then the government can no longer take responsibility on such a basis, and in that case I will take the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e135	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e138	The Prime Minister has now clarified the Government's position on the proposals put forward by a majority in this House in the Grand Duchy, and has also clarified his position if the majority votes against the proposal put forward earlier today by the parliamentary leaders of the central parties. That is a clear clarification on the part of the Prime Minister. For the Labour Party, the clarification does not mean that we will change our informed vote, neither in relation to the proposals submitted in the vote, nor the proposals presented earlier today, which I have commented on in my previous posts. When we have that attitude towards the various proposals that have been promoted, it is because we believe that our proposals ensure the environment better than the proposals put forward by the Government and the Government parties and supported on the issue of gas power plants. The debate on gas power plants is not about whether we are concerned about the greenhouse effect and climate problems, the debate is about how we think we can best contribute to reducing emissions. A majority in this room believe that greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced if we use gas for power generation, compared to a situation where we will be dependent for many years on increasing imports of pollutants. In addition, a majority in this room believe that we are developing even more environmentally friendly gas power technologies more quickly if we are today starting to use the best available technology. On that basis, we choose to stand on our proposals. With regard to the proposal that was promoted early this morning, we believe that that proposal can help to create new ambiguity. The changes we may be voting for in the Pollution Act, if necessary for the implementation of new emissions permits, will help to strengthen the pollution law as an environmental policy tool and reduce total greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e147	First of all, let me emphasize that in my political life I have always sought to have a neatness in the relationship between government and greatness. What is the Government's task and what is the Grand Government's task was also the basis for my position in another important debate we had here in the house two days ago. Stoltenberg believes that his proposals and those he shares with the Right Party and the Advance Party are better for the environment than those central parties and SV stand for. Of course you have to respect that. But to believe that emissions are getting lower, and that we can start a cut in CO2 emissions by greatly increasing CO2 emissions, I don't think it makes any sense. It could have been sustainable if we had a quota system in place that would have resulted in a significant increase in pollution, which we will get at these gas plants, being matched by equivalent or greater reductions elsewhere in Norway or abroad. But today we don't have such an allowance system in place either nationally or internationally. That is why this is not sustainable. You take a chance and you can hope for the best. But with the increased power consumption we currently have, the chances are great that our polluting gas power plants will come to the top of the pollution we already have, and we are even further away from the commitments we have to take on because of the Kyoto agreement. This is not a good environmental policy. I just have to register that the Workers' Party has changed positions over and over again. When the SFT made its decision for not too long, Stoltenberg sent out a press release and was satisfied. A month and a half ago, the Workers' Party's head said that gas power plants should continue to be subject to the CO2 pollution law. Now the game opens for something completely different. Then I think most people realize that it's probably not the environment that's behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e156	Let me first give the Prime Minister credit for the principle position he had on the legal situation, and for placing the decisive emphasis on big business and government on what the Justice Department's bill says on what big business and government should do and deal with. That's an attitude we fully share. That is why we have not made the proposal in the vote, which the law department said was not in accordance with the law. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister, because he has now made it clear that if the proposal from the government parties is not adopted, the Government will go by: What will it really do to help with the government’s – let’s say – view the environment and view on energy production? It is obvious that there is a large majority, in which we are involved, in order to have access to building gas power plants in Norway. That'll be the result. I think the way the Prime Minister would deal with this, by coming back with a big message about all the things that it might have to be decided later that the Stortinget wanted the Government to come back to, was straightforward and tidy. Why isn't the Prime Minister happy to do it that way? Why now threaten to abandon if this special proposal is not adopted? After all, it would be quite possible to look at what concrete proposals for changes to the pollution law that a majority might later consider. There would have been real political content, while there is now a pre-theoretical problem. Is it no longer in line with a minority government with only 42 mandates to be able to accept the decisions that the Storting would have taken, and then to report back and see how things went before 1 June?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e168	Let me first say about the relationship with the pollution law, as the current proposal from the three centre parties is about, that I will admit that both the Progress Party and the Right have always had a different view of the pollution law than the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. Those who have made the change in course here in the last few hours are, of course, the Workers' Party. So ask the representative Hagen if it will help the environment if a government goes off. No, no matter when and how it should happen, of course, a departure will not do so in isolation. But now, the bulk of the population – at least as Stoltenberg put it today – has decided that they should in any case operate through these polluting gas plants, and until June the government can only be allowed to assess, is the way in which they are to be operated. That was said with clear words today. Thus, this environmental damage will occur in any case, unless the polluting gas power plants are obtained by the non-pollutants and are disposed of before they are built. There's a certain possibility for that. But a government must also — it also has to do with cleanliness in the relationship between government and big business — assess where the boundaries go for it a government can take responsibility for. And we've assessed it so that we can't take responsibility in a situation where one can weaken one of the supports of Norwegian environmental policy, namely the pollution law. But this could be explained if the bulk of the population believes that one should not weaken the pollution law. Then it's just to vote for the proposals of the government parties. In that case, there will be no weakening of the pollution law. It is an important environmental policy clarification, and it will also create a new political situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e177	It looks as if this case comes into a clear track in the sense that the Prime Minister is now answering the main questions in the matter, even though it is threatening to go out on some of the more peripheral questions. And I have to say right away that it's not the Prime Minister's assessment of the law on this issue -- I feel absolutely certain that the majority's opinion can be implemented within the framework of the pollution law. But I also have to say that I am pleased that the Prime Minister has not fallen for the temptation to do this, but says that there is clearly a substantive disagreement here, in relation to all the suggestions we have seen in the press that this matter should be taken into consideration. I think that is a neat and straightforward matter, and I note with interest that the Prime Minister also agrees that the Right has had a clear position all along. I feel that our position on this matter has been respected by the government parties. However, the proposal on which the Prime Minister now chooses to place his or her position is such that it premises that the majority's view is detrimental to the environment. It's not. We've spent this whole day just telling you that this yes to the gas power question, the position, is also to the joy of the environment. That is why it is impossible to vote in favour of a proposal which, in my opinion, has such a false premise as this proposal has. I feel absolutely safe about the Right Environmental Position in this context, and can therefore not vote in favour of this proposal. We are now getting through an important part of our policy, and therefore, of course, we are not going to explore the possibility of putting into reality something that is of importance to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e184	Jan Petersen does not share the Prime Minister's view of the juice. Now I have to draw attention to the fact that what I referred to in my contribution to the legal views on the relationship between gas power plants and the pollution law was the views of the law department. So in case Jan Petersen doesn't share the law department's view, and that's of course fully permissible, but it's relatively bold, considering the position of the Justice Department's law department. But we have been willing to – if we had the opportunity – discuss this further in a big message until 1 June, which I understand is an important deadline for the large number. It could then be discussed whether a conversion of the emissions permit could take place within – or would require changes to – the applicable pollution law. So to the Centre Party's proposal not to weaken the pollution law. Jan Petersen says that the premise for it is that the majority's proposal is to the detriment of the environment. That's not necessarily right. What is right is that we believe that the majority's approach is harmful to the environment, but it does not necessarily – as it was precisely one who would be discussing it in a big deal – lead to changes in the pollution law, even if there is a significant opportunity for doing so. So it's clear that if the Right would have wanted and had the position that the pollution law should not be weakened, the Right could of course have voted in favour of this proposal. The right does not seem to choose that, I have to say that, and I have explained the consequences of the Right and the Labour Party in the event.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e192	In the case that has been dealt with here today, and in the question of whether to force it through development or the possibility of the development of highly polluting gas power plants, the Government and the Swedish Government fully agree. SV can sign every word that has been said by the Council of State Marit Arnstad, the Council of State Guro Fjellanger and the Prime Minister on the assessment of the matter itself. SV also agrees with that proposal. 17 which is presented by Einar Steensnæs on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, and will vote for what we are in favour of. We understand that the recent developments in this matter have made the government's political space for action in dealing with the gas power plant nearly zero. We therefore also understand that when the Workers' Party and the Right open the way for a change in the pollution law, the Government believes that the instruction goes well. We understand that in this situation, the Government makes the assessment that over-management is too gross, and that one sits back with the possibility that one can legitimise environmental decisions that are really strongly opposed. So we think it is a departure in honor. SV is absolutely sure that when you look back at the realities of this case – in 10 years, in 20 years, when our kids are going to take over – we are the ones who have been right. Then there are great questions about how the bulk of the population could cling to the old-fashioned solutions at the beginning of a new millennium instead of choosing future solutions. It means, for our part, that we will continue to argue politically in the matter, that we will help to keep the political pressure on the matter up. No gas power plant is built yet, and we shall do as best we can to ensure that it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e201	I appreciate SV's environmental commitment. After all, there is an overall environmental movement that is also in the fight against the polluting gas power stations. It's a fight, in my view, also for the next generation. I also think it is a neat attitude, as SV has now taken, that they will vote in favour of what they are for, then also proposal No. 17, from the three parliamentary leaders of the centre parties, not to weaken the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument. I would just like to repeat also to other parties and representatives – that is, to both the Labour Party and the Right and everyone else – that if you do not want to weaken the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument and instrument, as the support bar it has been in the environmental policy in Norway until today, yes, you can and should vote in favour of the proposal that says exactly that. If you think that you do not want to weaken the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument, but still you are voting against the proposal, yes, then I find it difficult to understand anything other than that there must be other reasons for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e210	First of all, a few words about the pollution law. It is our best opinion that the proposals we have put forward can be implemented within the current legal framework, and that the emission permits can be modified without changing the pollution law. We do not believe that the notion from the law department says it is not correct, but they raise some issues related to the conditions that have to be met in order for the emission permits to be changed, and the government believes that there is doubt that it is possible to modify the emission permits within the current pollution law. Our attitude to this is that if it should nevertheless prove that it is not possible to open up the construction of gas power plants without changing the pollution law, it shows that the pollution law has an environmental weakness, because in case we have a law that makes it fully possible without any constraints, without any cost, to cover an ever-increasing part of Norwegian power consumption by importing power from significantly more polluting sources. It obviously doesn't regulate the pollution law, because we're doing it today, so it prevents us from using the most environmentally friendly gas power technology available, in order to reduce our dependence on imports. So to the extent that there are changes in the pollution law to open up gas power plants, there will be changes that strengthen the pollution law as an environmental policy tool, not weaken it. I would also like to add that it is not long since the State pollution control authority granted an emission permit of 350 000 tonnes of CO2 without imposing any cleaning requirement on the gas plants on Kårstø, so it is obviously not completely impossible to grant such emission permits within the current pollution law. Finally, I would like to say that I noticed that the Prime Minister opened his speech by saying that he was pleased that the Government has had an impact on the main lines, I think he said, in relation to energy and environmental policy. It is with the voices of the Workers' Party, so we – the Centre and the Workers' Party – obviously have a lot in common in energy and environmental policy. This applies to energy saving and to alternative energy sources. [[Immediate flash photographing by the press photographers]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e221	There is a high daily consumption of film rolls. – Let me say at the end that yes, we have and at least have had a lot in common between the Centre and the Workers' Party in environmental and energy policy. We also had a common view until a short time ago on how emissions from gaseous power plants were to be treated. Here, the Workers' Party has turned 180 degrees around, and in the last day also in terms of the view of the pollution law. That's why we no longer share a common view of this. The working party here has allied itself with the right parties towards an overall environmental movement. It is the Labour Party's choice, and we can only regret that. So Stoltenberg again says that the government believes that there is doubt about whether a conversion of the emission requirements from the SFT is within the legal framework. I must again establish what I said in my post. It's the law department that points out that it's such a doubt, it's not the government. But we have obligations to present it, and we have done so, and we have said that this could be discussed further in a big message if we had occasion to do so. This is evident from the opinion of the Legal Service, in particular on pages 2 and 8, for further study. I don't have time now to refer to it, but I did it to some extent in my post. But it's not just the law department that's in doubt. The working party has also been in doubt during the last day. That is why they proposed a whole new proposal last night. Now Stoltenberg says that if there are to be changes in the pollution law, for which they now open, yes, there may be changes that strengthen the pollution law. But then I totally don't understand why they can't vote in favour of a proposal not to weaken the pollution law, because if you want to strengthen it, yes, then one at least isn't to weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e232	The cord shift is over. The President assumes that the debate on the issues on today's map will be continued after the established list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e237	I was really willing to withdraw from the debate, because it is actually closed and clarified. But since it doesn't happen, I want to say a few words, because the proposal that's been promoted has to be considered a kind of procuratorial trick to cover over a fundamental disagreement between the government parties and the majority in the big room. That disagreement has been there for a very long time. I must remind you that, while the Labour Party had government, the central parties disagreed with the strategy of the then Labour Party government ahead of the Kyoto negotiations, such as, among other things. was intended to include in the Protocol provisions on joint implementation and the purchase of allowances. In fact, the strategy of the Labour Party government was taken over when you got into the government yourself, but you actually continued to stick to a narrow national perspective on how to look at climate problems. This has led to the environmentally sound coverage of domestic consumption by importing coal power, because it is not due to national emissions, while generating less polluting electricity from the gas becomes completely irresponsible. Such a policy will have the effect of making it entirely acceptable to export gas in pipelines to the continent, while the countries on the continent can build gas power plants and we may once in the future have to import electricity from the same gas power plants that we supply gas in pipelines from the North Sea. Such a situation we don't want to get into. This is where the fundamental disagreement between the government parties and the majority lies, and it could not be covered by the adoption of the proposal that has been put forward this morning. And I want to say, the government made a decision about the anchor, in contravention of the large number that you knew was there. It is quite right, as it has been pointed out, that the government that I led decided that the construction of gas power plants should be done under the pollution law. But the law contains an appeal access, and there is no doubt that the government that I led had laid a different and broader view at the root of the appeal proceedings themselves. We had said that gas power plants emit CO2 in Norway, but the total emissions of CO2 will decrease, and therefore it would be right to build these gas power plants in accordance with the pollution law. We could have taken such a position within the framework of current law. But if there is any doubt about this, the Labour Party says that the law should be amended. This proposal was promoted in order to prevent a new gurgling and a new delay in the implementation of the view of the majority of the population. It would be to risk the whole credibility of politics if you were to continue to delay and thwart something the majority of the population would have done. It's going to be crazy language when the Prime Minister says that the Workers' Party is willing to break the pollution law. It is an indication that the Prime Minister believes that we want to weaken the pollution law. No, we want to strengthen the pollution law, that is. bring the pollution law into line with international policy and ideology in addressing the climate issue. If it is that this law does not make it possible to implement a policy that is consistent with what is international policy, well, we have to change the law. It is not at all to weaken the law, but it is to strengthen the law. But it is clear that if we had voted in favour of the proposal put forward by the government parties, we would have raised new doubts about the implementation of the policy of the majority of the population, and the Labour Party could not be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e246	It is clear that the Prime Minister has now made it clear that the Government is taking its position that the majority position is not adopted. In particular, he attaches it to proposal No. 17. It seems to me that this is a siding, because in all his contributions he indicates that he does not accept the I majority voting and in addition proposal No.16. He is, in effect, inviting a continuation of proceedings through a roll-call announcement with a view to a rematch, and he is tightening the terms of the rematch. I'm going to give examples: he says in his statement that the Government is prepared to propose national allowances introduced before international allowances. He knows that he's in conflict with, among other things. what my party has said. He should know that, because it's pronounced a number of times. In this case, it is also contrary to what a professional setting has been done, an adjustment that is currently being processed. He also said in his post that the government is prepared to propose that at least 50 pst. the allowances are implemented at home. Then I want to draw attention to the fact that it is contrary to the majority in the Inner East. S. No 233 for 1997-98, on the implementation of the Kyoto Agreement. There, a majority say that they disagree — and have refused — with the setting of quantitative limits, and a letter from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, which states that: ‘The government is neither involved in international negotiations nor in our national climate policy in order to set a quantitative limit on the proportion of emissions obligations to be taken through flexible implementation mechanisms.’ There is no extensive hand in cooperating with the bulk of the population through a new bigmouth message invited the Prime Minister in his speech. In reality, he reinforces the requirements, introduces new requirements, argues very strongly against the right to change, and suggests a roll-out notification. – It is probably not the most natural way to follow up on a legislative proposal on, or a legislative amendment, as the majority does in proposal No. 16, at least as an option. It is also unusually unclear what proposal No. 17, from Steensnæs, about the pollution law, is really going on. I agree with what was said by, among others. Mr Stoltenberg earlier today. It is unclear who the proposal is actually coined. Is that a reminder to the Government? Yeah, I guess we can send it over. Is it a kind of "reminder" to the majority of the Storting? – We don’t have to, at least I haven’t heard anyone in the majority of the Storting who has expressed it. Is there some sort of excuse for not implementing the Storting decision? Yes, then the conclusion is fairly clear, and it has already been drawn indirectly by the Prime Minister. There might be no reason to be very surprised at the conclusion. I have noticed relatively early that the Prime Minister in this matter, the gas power case, i.e. in the substantive disagreement as to whether it should be allowed to build gas power plants in Norway under the same emission conditions as in other countries that are also subject to the Kyoto agreement at that time, has defined differently than in other cases where the Government is down. He has stated earlier that in this case, the majority's decision must be taken in such a way that the matter moves in the right direction. I have not seen such a demand from the Government before. The government has suffered a series of defeats in matters of importance. I mention the veterinary agreement, where, of course, the majority's decision did not go in the right direction of the Government, that is, in the eyes of the Government, but in the direction of the majority. The Upper Eight Decision was not a decision in line with what the Government wanted, nor in its direction, but in the direction of the majority. In the case of the shooting field, the Government would have no field of fire. The majority would have it. It can hardly be seen as a step in the direction of the Government. So in this case, the list, in order to use the sports language, at least in terms of height hopping, is significantly higher. We've noticed that. It is likely that this may also be in view of other issues facing the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e262	The President assumes that Gunn Karin Gjul, who is the next on the list of speakers, has drawn as a speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e265	The debate today has shown more and more that the claim by the representative Stoltenberg that they are not on the hunt for government does not hold. Not a lot of people believe in it anymore. It's a little too simple when Stoltenberg says infidelity: we're just voting for what we're for, and against what we're against. The working party is for gas power plants, and when we have the chance to get an impact on an important point in the program of the party, says Stoltenberg, we obviously do not vote against anything we are in favour of. But in the same post he signals that they will vote against something they are in favour of. The Labour Party did the same in April 1986. Then the Workers' Party also voted against what they were in favour of, that is to say to increase the fuel tax, so if you can achieve something else you are in favour of, by voting against something you are in favour of, you vote against. Then the representative says Stoltenberg that the whole problem started with the government being to consult the Stortinget when Guro Fjellanger dealt with the duck from the force of nature. Why in the world did not Stoltenberg take the opportunity to sing out his dissatisfaction when he was interviewed by the Official Journal of Bergen on 23 June 1999 on the decision of the department, the day after it was taken? Then Stoltenberg did not rush through gas power plants. In fact, he said, "This is no haste." Why has he been in a hurry to trump through a decision today, despite the fact that everyone knows that gas power plants will not be built for many years? Both Stoltenberg and Akssen have made several allegations in the debate that polluting gas power plants in Norway lead to lower emissions globally. They're trying to substantiate this with claims from NVE and SFT. The representative Aksenssen has asked for evidence from the minority that this is not the case. I therefore ask the majority to sharpen their ears. Firstly, the prerequisite for the construction of gas power stations to lead to lower total emissions is that gas power replaces coal power. There is no evidence from the majority to guarantee this. On the contrary, we have received extensive evidence that the coal power, for example. in Denmark, is being built up independently of what Norway is doing. Denmark actually takes its international obligations seriously. They will reduce emissions by shutting down coal-fired power stations. Secondly, increased production of power by gas must not be consumed by increased consumption. Nor is there evidence from the majority that this is the case in terms of the consumption trend taken into account by the majority. We have no guarantee that Norwegian gas power will not be used to cover increasing consumption. Then the emissions don't go down. The representative Stoltenberg stressed that we must be able to discuss gas, but I note that he is now not particularly interested any more. Thirdly, if the total emissions of CO2 are to be assessed, it is absurd to look at only any short-term gains. The majority have been very concerned about the energy balance by 2020 in the debate. It would be an advantage if they were equally concerned with CO2 emissions by 2020. The long-term consequences are not reduced CO2 emissions. On the contrary, the SFT says that it is better to wait for up to 10 years for profitable gas power technologies, rather than building polluting gas power plants now. Fourth, if the SFT considered that polluting gas power is a very environmentally friendly measure, why worldwide it is required by the SFT to remove 90 pst. of the CO2 emissions? Finally, I would like to mention a problem I raised earlier today in front of one of Storting's leading gas power trailers, the representative Akselsen. As the gas power case has evolved, it is also about how we are going to achieve our international obligations. These are set out in the Kyoto Agreement and represent significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. The Labour Party has said in its suspension of the Kyoto notification that the flexible implementation mechanisms should only complement national measures. A significant part of our commitments must therefore be implemented by reducing Norwegian emissions. Then I think the representative Aksensen and the Workers' Party must tell me what measures need to be taken. It is clear that these measures will injure ordinary people. Will there be increased taxes on petrol, closure of industry, more expensive public transport? What do you choose to do? No one from the Labour Party has approached this issue in the debate. Now the Norwegian people have to get answers!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e288	Of course, it is the Prime Minister's cabinet question on proposal No. 17 which have attracted the most attention, and which will be remembered best from this day on. But I think there are two other statements by two other prominent politicians who also deserve considerable attention. Jan Petersen said that he did not agree with the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice in the understanding of the law. It is absolutely right that the lawyer Jan Petersen does not agree with the law department on a legal matter. But the fact that a parliamentary leader in his work here in the United Kingdom chooses to place more emphasis on what others think, in his work here, is very alarming. In all my years in this house, every time there has been a matter of understanding the law – and it's happening from time to time – the law department in the Ministry of Justice has been asked and always founded, despite the fact that some people may have had a personal opinion that the law department is out of business. That's what's been the basis for everything you've done in this house. So now, Jan Petersen – the parliamentary leader and for everything I know, possibly a Prime Minister’s candidate – chooses to focus more on what other, partially unknown legal experts have said. That's one eye-catching thing. The same is true of Jens Stoltenberg. He made it clear that the law department thought there could be any doubt as to the right of law to convert the emission permits granted. And it's quite correct that it's done the law department. It has raised doubts. It has not said that it is illegal, but only that doubts have arisen. Is it so to understand that Jens Stoltenberg, when doubts have been raised from the Department of Justice, seems to me that magnificence and government should use the courts to clarify what is really the matter, and what is the correct thing, because it is the courts that decide these questions with final effect? It's very eye-catching. And Jens Stoltenberg is declared Prime Minister candidate. Then we have two potential prime ministers who both want to base their work on the political fact that they do not need to follow the legal views of the law department in the exercise of their duties. It's very dramatic for me, too. If it is true that what the law department says is not necessarily right, and if you were in government yourself, these emission permits were re-established to get started, Bellona, Nature and Youth and some others would certainly go to trial against the state for making a lawless decision. Yes, then this is not a matter that is quickly decided, because the courts are not an apparatus that makes decisions after a month or two. This case would have gone to the Supreme Court, because it's very principleal, and it's probably a two-three-year perspective. And then you say you want to do this to make a quick decision to get construction started. It's totally incomprehensible. In addition to the view of the Legal Department, there is also a thorough legal dissertation from Bellona, and they have actually fought to introduce the rule of law in Moscow, Russia, in the Nikitin case, and have been praised for having gained more respect for the rule of law principles. Maybe they should spend a little more time with Mr. Petersen and Mr. Stoltenberg in Norway too? Finally, I told all our new wholesale representatives at the beginning of this period that they were now in Stortinget and not in the local government. If there is a legal obstacle to doing something that we in the Storting or Government want politically, we can still do it, I said, by changing the law. Of course, everyone else in this country, except government and big business, can try their cases before the courts. But for a great majority and a government is not the way to work. If you think that the law stands in the way of what you want to do, the government in an odelsting proposal promotes proposals to change the law, and the majority of people change the law to give themselves access to do what you want politically. I think the attitudes Jens Stoltenberg and Jan Petersen have shown today are frightening.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e307	I'm taking the word more to an obvious misunderstanding than to a line, but it's going to be a minute more, so we'll take the line. When Carl I. Hagen doesn't know what to talk about, he usually tends to talk about me. [[laughs in the hall]] But the point is that Carl I. Hagen is absolutely right in that when there is a part that disagrees, for example. outside, as he described, we say that if the government thinks it would be difficult to adopt this according to the provision we're talking about here, yes, so let's take a change of laws – of course with lots of procedures and one with the other, I don't overlook the fact that the government will share that view. At this point, we actually met one of the critical comments that Carl I had on the original proposal. I must say that I think Carl I. Hagen should have been excited that the objection he very rightly raised at some point was included in this proposal. I think he's been guilty of a never-ending misunderstanding about what this is all about. So I do not agree with the Prime Minister's interpretation. At my discretion, the law department's statement shows that it is possible to implement the majority's position even without a change in law, but to be completely on the safe side, and that this debate should not get lost in a lot of definitions of jus, where Carl I. Hagen is actually now the first to try this after a long debate, we say that then the new point is important, so that we can get started, and so that that reality both Hagen and I agree is realized. And then perhaps this long debate should end on the substance of politics and not on the point this debate has fortunately avoided throughout a whole day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e318	I can repeat here, as I have also done outside, that I think it was very reasonable for the Labour Party and the Right to promote its new proposal. It's clear. It is among the things I have requested, both in terms of the deadline, and in terms of accepting the principle of legislative change. However, in the debate today, the speakers have maintained that they believe that this can be done sufficiently within the framework of the law. The Prime Minister has published the law department's observations quite correctly. One thing is deadlines, another is the judgement to be exercised under the law, whether or not Petersen's assumptions mentioned here are met. It's a question that would ultimately be decided by courts. Others could have gone to trial and said that there are no assumptions in Section 18 paragraph. 5, which is crucial. It would be a lengthy trial, and it has been maintained that there is really no need for proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox That is what is the principle position of a prominent politician in the Stortinget – parliamentary leader and party chairman – that he assumes that in the political work one will not follow the law department. When we in the Progress Party were informed from the law department that our proposal, no. 6, was in violation of the law, let's just promote it, because that message came after the setting. But it was only last night – a long time after – that Jan Petersen and Right changed it. I'm glad they did that, but I think Jan Petersen should read what he said on the principle of following the law department's views, a little in depth, because I think it was a frightening attitude he showed in this context. I have no reason to talk about Mr. Petersen if I should have a lack of something to talk about. I have more than one to talk about, if I wasn't going to resort to that tool as well. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e329	After 1986, the Storting spent about ten years discussing the petrol charge in different variants, and I do not think there is any bold claim today to say that we are going to discuss the departure of gas power plants for at least ten years to come. And that Carl I. Hagen is going to be a very diligent participant in this debate, with an already good estimate now, is probably not very difficult to predict either. I'm not going to take part in it, but let me say a little bit about the government's departure. It was once said about – I think it was – a Danish trade union leader something like letting us in our grief that you are going, not forgetting the joy that you were going. What was striking instead when it became clear that the government would leave, was how little enthusiasm there was in some circles in this hall. Normally it is that someone is very excited, and that someone is more sad when a government goes off. But there was no enthusiasm in this room, and the reason is obvious. The government parties are of course sorry that they have to go, it is obvious, but the Labour Party also shows no enthusiasm for the possibility they have to take over, for the obvious reason that they know that a weak minority government might be replaced by another weak minority government, and that we are going to go in the same track, waving from case to case in the Storting, where one has as a horizon to survive from week to week or month, only with another government in exactly the same position. The working party is going to meet six opposition parties in Stortinget, as the situation is now. Here's the grief. But at one point you have to be allowed to say that it's also a certain joy. I saw that the representative Carl I. Hagen of Nettavisen this morning said that he had the authority here today, one day, Mr. Bondevik and Mr. Stoltenberg in its entirety has been in charge. But according to Mr. Hagen, he was the director, and the paper did not ask very critical questions about that version. That's where the joy comes in. We can now miss this in the future. Because if the centre parties, the Workers' Party and the SV now stand so that there is a minimum of cooperation in the future, then we can manage to park Carl I. Hagen in the valley of the shadows that it is possible after this day to park him in. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e340	Now I thought it was cars you parked, not people. But if I had been indebted, I would have said that this says something about Erik Solheim's human vision. [[Laughter]] There are many up through the years who have tried to get the Advance Party and the undersigned – who have had the joy of leading the party for a while – into the valley of the shadows and to get us away, but they have usually been disappointed. I think we'll have a good time. So now Erik Solheim is talking about the government's departure. So far, there has been no vote over any proposals, and so far, this is just a theoretical situation. The vote will take place later this evening. I can't feel correctly quoted if it's been written in the Nett newspaper that Erik Solheim said. I said that I had some influence over what happened on Tuesday, but today I've been a spectator, there are many on-call journalists who can say. Here I haven't had any control at all in any way. When it comes to the future, I don't think you should take for granted that it will be exactly as Erik Solheim now expresses. First of all, we have a government and we have a prime minister, and let's hold it until something else happens. Starting with a wide pen is what happens if there's a change in government, you can wait for that. And you can also wait with the clearest fortune - tellers. If that happens, there may be several opposition parties that will compete to become the leading opposition party to – theoretically – a working party government. But I don't think you should take for granted which party is able to win that game.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e353	There are some economists who have an unfettered need and desire to tell the whole world how the jut is connected. Carl I. Hagen is one of them. My point is this: I have not expressed my opinion on the comments of the law department, but I have expressed my opinion on the Prime Minister's interpretation of them. I say – and I will insist – that this statement makes it possible to apply Paragraph 18, first paragraph, No. 5, and the law department says the following: ‘However, under certain actual assumptions, there may be access to such conversion on the basis of...’» And then it defines the assumptions. And that's what I said, that's possible when the assumptions are met. There's something quite different than saying that here there's doubt that there's access, because then you have to take a position on it. That position I've taken, I think it's legal access to do that. And there are a lot of people who believe it, and the law department doesn't dispute it. Something else is that the law department was clear that Carl I. Hagen's original proposal did not go, and he has taken the consequences of that, and that's fair enough. But that doesn't apply to all the suggestions, to say it like that. So I feel that I have my words. And I have to say, if I'm allowed, that I think this debate, with so far-reaching consequences, should end with discussions other than Carl I. Hagen and I are now in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e367	That, sir. Petersen now says, it doesn't change anything about the actual main content, that it may be possible to modify the emissions permits if certain assumptions exist. But for greatness and government it can't be that they do something that it can be access to, magnification and government should be absolutely sure that what they do, it's access to, because, unlike anyone else, we have the opportunity to change the law and remove the doubts about what we do in so important issues like this. That is what is the absolutely crucial principle in my opinion. Everyone else has to deal with the laws as they are, but if the government wants to do something that is doubtful – only a question mark on – whether it is in accordance with the law, it should go in to change the law, and the majority of the population should do the same. Perhaps it is subordinate to what is of course the big thing now, but I think this is fundamental in the work of magnification and government. It is not true that the two parliamentary leaders of the largest and fourth largest party of the Storting show that they believe that this can be relied on, and that, if any, you might get a trial, if any complaints, and get it decided by a court – that is not the case of a large number and a government should act. That is why I have allowed myself to pay tribute to the Government both for obtaining the views of the law department – I said that in a chronicle in the VG last Saturday – and for following up and indicating that they will base the interpretation of the law department, something Jens Stoltenberg and Jan Petersen have not recognised, they have maintained that they could actually use I and II in isolation and alone. So here there's a real disagreement, and that's an important fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e378	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e381	Today's debate on the Government's Energy Communication was actually going to be a debate on a more environmentally-oriented energy policy. The government’s attitude hasbeen almost fully impacted by a massive investment in energy sources and alternative energy sources. In other words, on 9 March 2000 could have become a label day for a more environmentally friendly energy policy in Norway, but this is obviously not the case. In its eagerness to build conventional gas power plants, the Workers' Party is taking the spectacular step of opening up a change in the pollution law in order to achieve its policy objectives. The Labour Party agrees with the Right and the Advance Party in order to force through a decision which the party for a short time returned the beast that one did not want. On 25 January this year, Thorbjørn Jagland stated in his Jagland letter: ‘In other words, the working party has not turned around in the gas power case. We believe that it is neither necessary nor right to amend the pollution law." So on 25 January, the Workers' Party said that it was not right to change the pollution law, and today it is a willingness to weaken one of the most important environmental policy instruments we have. This demonstrates, in my view, an environmental dissatisfaction that is not the Workers' Party and the Gro Harlem Brundtland Party worthy. The proposal jointly promoted by the Workers' Party and the Right yesterday marked an environmental time gap. The largest batch in the Stortinget not only warns that a wish to have gas plants built with a technology on the way out will also open the Workers' Party in order to weaken the pollution law in order to achieve this. The newly appointed Prime Minister’s candidate for the Workers’ Party has led to the fact that he is not on government hunts. Yesterday, Mr Stoltenberg removed any doubts as to the political objectives behind the strategy of the party in the matter of gas power. I don't think anyone else is in any doubt that the Workers' Party and Stoltenberg want to use the Right as a rounding bow to get into the government position. The surprising thing is that the Workers' Party is willing to pay such a high price – such a high political price – to regain the power that Jagland voluntarily gave up two and a half years ago. And when it is told from the Parliamentary Chair that the Labour Party will vote against a proposal by the parliamentary leader of the party tonight, it is quite revealing indeed. Jens Stoltenberg said in his speech that the Workers' Party wanted to strengthen the pollution law. However, the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice clearly states that there is no ‘legal access to propose such relaxations in the emission permits granted’ to which the majority submits. There are relaxations in the emissions permits here, and relaxations cannot be achieved through enhanced legislation, they can only be achieved through a weakened pollution law. The Kyoto Protocol obliges Norway, and although it opens up the use of flexible mechanisms, where emission reductions occur in other countries, the Kyoto Protocol is intended to complement national measures. The Workers' Party also participated in such an underline in the suspension of the so-called Kyoto notification in 1998. The majority thought it was important. ‘that Norway implements a significant part of the obligations of national measures. This is not least important in order to avoid that, at a later stage, when we are likely to face even more stringent emission obligations, we are faced with much greater conversion costs». That was what the Workers' Party meant at the time. The majority, however, would like Norwegian gas power stations to be free of charge passengers snorting in queues when establishing the quota system. It means in plain text that there will be other parts of society, such as: the transport sector, households and industry, which must bear the major burden of CO2 cuts when we are one day facing even more stringent emission obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e405	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e408	It is correct, as the representative Jakobsen says in his statement, that the Progress Party is in favour of the construction of gas power plants. Nor has there been any doubt in this matter, hopefully. But I want to ask a question about the representative's own home state, where the majority in the Central Party have clearly agreed to the construction of gas power plants. There are, among other things: in Nord-Trøndelag, a company called Norwegian Forest, which wants to build gas power plants according to their production. Then I would like to ask Jakobsen about the following: Is it such that the local environment of the Centre Party in the North Trøndelag does not have sufficient competence to determine whether it is smart to build gas power plants up there or not? Or is it only when the representatives of the Central Party are moving in to the Oslo pot that you achieve that competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e417	It is true that most parts of the Nord-Trøndelag have entered into the type of gas power plant proposed at the paper factory in Forest, as part of a major gas siting throughout Middle Norway. But when Nesvik and others have also expressed earlier in the debate that the Central Party in the North-Trøndelag has almost taken a critical position both on the undersigned, as a representative of the Centre Party, and also on the Minister of Oil and Energy Marit Arnstad, I can only say from the Chair of the Stortinge that personally I have not met a single critical remark that the undersigned and Council of State Arnstad chooses to stand on the party's programme. I have never heard that anyone has objected to our having a Central Party Council, which deals with oil and energy issues in an excellent way, and that there has been criticism because the Arnstad Council chooses to stand on the party's programme, and chooses to stand on the common political basis on which the central government is based. So Nesvik can only save his worries. This is not a big problem in the relationship between my party in Nord-Trøndelag and the representative Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e425	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e428	I think I'll be very short. I said my main thing in the line-up after the Prime Minister's posts. There's a real disagreement here in the hall between those who think using gas can help improve the environment, and those who believe the opposite. I think that is an honest and honest disagreement, and I think it is important now that the majority in the Grand Duchy is expressed their will, and that it is followed up. That is the kind of disagreement we must live with in political life. That is why we have different political parties with different political positions. And then the debate has also shown that the consensus goes a little bit across the hall. In relation to the important issues highlighted by the Prime Minister in his intervention on alternative energy sources, on energy saving and on reducing growth in consumption, the majority are the Workers' Party and the Centre. The government had not received a majority for its proposals there if the Workers' Party had not supported them, because we think these are good proposals. Otherwise, I am sure that we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss both the pollution law, the law department's concerns and the gas power plant even in the days that are coming, but my impression is that the debate here in the Chamber is perhaps served by the fact that I am not continuing that kind of line exchange. I therefore look forward to continuing the debate in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e437	I also think that I should just take the opportunity to make a few final remarks, with the wording that this debate has now taken. But I would like to highlight a few points, one of which is that I have noticed that the Right's consistent position on this issue has been addressed with respect. I appreciate that. But I'm not surprised either. The right has had a clear position on these questions over a longer period of time, and therefore we have not been expected to change our position now that we have an opportunity to adopt it. I have noticed that, of course, the Prime Minister has put his position first with regard to the Steensnæs proposal, a proposal I must say that I find very difficult to understand, but which is obviously based on a premise which requires an opinion on the environmental impact of our proposal that the majority of us obviously cannot agree with. But I also noticed that the Prime Minister, in addition to that, had a number of reservations for the arrangement that the majority of people have in the position. That's why I see it so that this is what this is about, is a total assessment of the situation where there is the factual disagreement that has struck through. And that's a good thing. That the Prime Minister then chose to throw the cards is his assessment. There are a number of other areas in these two and a half years in which the Prime Minister has accepted positions other than those he himself stood for. So he has chosen a different line in this case. Then I don't need to continue the debate with Hagen on the law issue. I want to insist that I think he's going to be very absolute, too absolute, and it's maybe the words "can" and "will" that's gone a little bit ballistic for him. The result of this debate and the decisions we are now taking today is that an important resource will be made available in Norway in the future. I think it is very important that Norway uses this opportunity to use the resources we have. And because it is linked to total emissions in Europe, this is a good environmental position. That's why it's important to think about what we think is right. And maybe one of the good things about politics is that what when it's covered out in the media can give the impression of being games, maneuvers, positions and places, it's ultimately a question of political conviction and respect for each other's political beliefs. I think it's important that the Storting remembers itself that that's what the seventh and last point is at the heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e448	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e451	I've seen a little bit of Jan Petersen tonight, and I had expected him to be happy. But it doesn't look like that. And then I'm thinking about maybe Petersen, like me, is sitting thinking about the gas tax – it's had some traumatic experiences with the Right. I assume that the Right has thought carefully through what they are doing tonight, and that the feeling of discomfort that I believe Petersen has, perhaps not because he is doubted in the matter of whether he has now run the Labour Party's errand to get Field Government and ends up with sky-high petrol prices as a result. It is such that the policy that the Right now runs with the Workers' Party leads to some avoiding all environmental requirements in terms of pollutant emissions, while others then probably have to pay the price to balance this before we have a quota system in place. I think it might be interesting for Right-wing voters to hear how high the petrol price actually means we should have, when the Right-wing believes that gas power stations are going to have free passengers, and the gas power stations are polluting as much as almost the entire Norwegian car park together. So it has to mean that the bill has to be sent to someone else. The car park is one of them. There might also be someone else who gets that bill. I think people now have a right to know who the Right is going to send that bill to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e460	I thought for a moment it was petrol prices in the transferred sense it was talking about, but the jam was pretty concrete things you were looking for. As far as I know, this was about the future quota system, but I would like to remind you that it is the works that have to buy quota. I'm not sure how the gas price question comes in here, but I just want to remind you that in terms of high gas prices, it's something that a combination of the government parties and the Workers' Party has already arranged, not least through the budget of the year. It has been one of our objections to the Government that it has turned its back on the Right and cooperated with the Labour Party, among others. to the detriment of the drivers. When it comes to whether I am happy, I have to say that I am happy that we have a decision that uses the resource that is. But of course, as Karin Andersen also knows, we haven't been on any government hunt in these questions. The head of government himself has drawn the consequence that he wants to throw the cards. That's the point. Perhaps Karin Andersen has been looking for a hidden agenda with us? I know that some in the government parties have done the same. Among other things, the Vice-President of the Centre was out in the newspaper the other day and wrote an article about it – a totally immaterial form of debate, if I get to say it as it is, in which one attributes motives to people and then calls them ‘scorner’ when one does not acknowledge these added motives. So I think we might want to give up that kind of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e467	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e470	I get a feeling that we're now participating in a little bit of a festive aftergame. It seems that what was to be eaten is eaten and drunk, the turmoil is spreading in the assembly, and the mood for fasting is considerably subdued. I think that's because what's happened today has a clear political consistency based on the gas power issue, but it's not going to do anything about what we're struggling with most in Norwegian politics right now: we need a majority constellation that can do the job of setting some long-term goals and fighting for them, whether it's about what many people are shaking their heads around the country, that's why in all the world we're going to accept a school standard that's so much worse than the kids most used to at home, or about environmental policy or many other areas where SV has ambitions about political influence. The Norwegian policy had to be, was a majority Salliance and a majority constellation that made it possible for the game and the spectacle that we have had in Norwegian policy from the time of Jagland at least, and via the Bondevik period, to end now as we are facing a government shift. But it doesn't look like that. Probably when this is over, we're going to have a new minority government that's going to build up on a case-by-case basis in Stortinget, and the sport "how can we put a defeat on the government today" is going to continue. What hinders such a majority constellation is the logic that Jens Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party, but also other parties in this house, underpin their political work. And in a reply to me in a line change earlier today, he said that the Workers' Party is voting for what they are for, and that it would be nice if we voted against what we are for when we have a majority for it, and only for when we don't get a majority!'. But it's precisely the logic that makes it possible for parties that should initially have the opportunity to sit down and negotiate something that was a sensible policy line for the future, not to do it, but to drown in games. It is simply not possible for the Workers' Party to seek the support of the Progress Party and the Right in environmental policy, for it will always be the case that the Right Party and the Progress Party are responsible for the worst environmental solutions. The progress section shows that environmental and climate issues are not something that the left-hand side has found, as is well known. SV has a very clear decision from our national meeting. It reads as follows: ‘SV wants a majority structure in Norwegian policy which, through political agreements or government cooperation, rotates policy to the left. Based on the relationship of strength of the Storting today, the Workers' Party is a clear factor of power in such a majority constellation. It is the challenge and clear task of the SV to ensure that Norway does not once again receive a government seeking support from the Right and the Advance Party. Without influence, SV cannot provide guarantees to a government that we do not participate in or have an agreement with ourselves.» Then comes the political points that our national meeting seemed to be the most important, and the first thing that is mentioned is the issue of climate policy and gas power plants. The situation you're facing now is that no matter how you turn around and turn around, it's probably a minority government that's not interested in entering into political cooperation with a majority of the parties on the Grand Duchy, and that's not interested in giving a majority of the parties on the Grand Duchy influence over any government statement. So the situation we've been in is going to continue. There will be a situation in which an alternating majority is sought. There will be a situation in which it is most unclear for the voters who are responsible for the policy that in total is actually being pursued. It will be exactly the same situation as Igland had before the 1997 elections. I am absolutely convinced that Tuesday most of the voters in Norway shook their heads and had problems understanding what the Stortinget was really doing. Today, I think there is a much clearer political choice that has been made. But I am absolutely sure that if the attitude of the Workers' Party, which the Bondevik government has also taken into account, is to make it almost a political virtue not to have a majority in the Stortinget behind it, then Norwegian politics is still going to be about games and speculation. On the SV side, the task is very clear: we are going to challenge politically. If we have any chance of getting an impact on a policy that, in total, brings Norway a step in the right direction and that allows adult people, trusted people – who are really bigots representatives and government members – to spend their time on something other than straining each other, then it will be a contribution to bringing the world a little bit forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e494	I note from what has now been said after my previous speech that the Labour Party and the Right do not seem to want to vote in favour of a proposal that the pollution law should not be weakened as an environmental policy instrument. The Labour Party will therefore vote against this proposal, even though the party's parliamentary leader has said that he agrees with the content. He even says that he will not weaken the pollution law as a political instrument, but perhaps even if it needs to be changed, strengthen it. Yes, you can start wondering if you should have made a proposal that the Stortinget assumes that the pollution law should be strengthened – and if the Workers' Party would have voted for it! [[Laughter]] At least you had to be able to vote in favour of the present proposal not to weaken it. But no, you can't. You're against weakening it, but you can't vote for a proposal that says it. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get That is, I think most people are gradually beginning to understand it, and that it has to do with something other than the environment and the pollution law – it has to do with the government issue. That's all right, and then I just like to say it. That is exactly why I must also say that I understand less of the Right conduct tonight. The party's parliamentary leader said he appreciated my mention that the Right has had a consistent line in terms of gas power stations and pollution law. That's right, and that's what I'm standing by, and that's what the Right Line says in today's setting. But after this position was given, two proposals have been made at Stortinget's table, one from the Labour Party and the Right and one in response to it from the parliamentary leaders of the three central parties that we should not weaken the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument. Let me therefore make it quite clear at the end of the debate: if the Right will, of course, they can vote in favour of this proposal by the centre parties. It doesn't have to be in conflict with the Right Line. If this were to conflict with the Right Line, it would have to be because the Right would weaken the Pollution Act as an environmental policy instrument. I haven't heard that the Right has expressed it. That is why we have to note and record that the Right in active cooperation with the Labour Party is voting against a proposal that I have notified in the event will lead to the resignation of the Government. That's why, of course, it's not right when Jan Petersen says the government is throwing the cards. No, the center administration will continue. We have a political account that we're familiar with, and after two and a half years we've had a positive impact on large parts of our policies. At the same time, I have said that we cannot continue at any price and steer forward on any basis. The right hand could, and may still, contribute to the continuation of the central government so that the Workers' Party does not return to the government position. If the Right agrees with the Labour Party against proposal No. 17 in the evening, what happens in the case will be that the Workers' Party and the Right actively vote triggers the resignation of the Government, although they can do something else. It is the Labour Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e515	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. The President will first notify the following: The appointed alternate of the State of Oppland, Fredrik Färber, has taken the seat. Then, in the circumstances, the President will propose that the meeting be temporarily suspended with an assumed break of approx. Half an hour. If this is to be accepted, the President will ask parliamentary leaders, as soon as practicable, to meet in the office of the President of the Grand Duchy. Sir. Hagen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e525	I want to explain why we're going to spend half an hour on a break. It is usually that if someone asks for a break to have a group meeting, it is okay, but no one has asked for it, and I see no reason for us to interrupt. The debate is closed and we should go to voting. In any case, I want to know why we should not start voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e531	As President of Stortinget, I have asked that we take a little break before voting so that the president and the vice-president, together with the group leaders, can discuss the voting arrangements for the vote that will now take place, so that we agree on the order.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e536	Several have not asked for the word. That means, as the President sees it, that the assembly agrees that we're taking a break. There will be a call to the vote about approx. Half an hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e555	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map. The President will first vote on the vote on the motion for a resolution. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e578	During the debate on case No. A total of 17 proposals have been made. It's: proposal No 1, by Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 2 – 4, by Brother Ynge Rahm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and Left proposal No. 5, by Brother Ynge Rahm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposals No. 7 – 9, by Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 10 – 15, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 16, by Olav Akssen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 17, from Einar Steensnæs on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Proposals Nos. 1 – 15 is included in the setting, while item no. 16 and 17 are distributed in the hall. The President will now open any explanations of vote before we start voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e607	Because we have not explained our vote at the group meeting earlier this afternoon, I will be allowed to give an explanation of vote now in accordance with the big group's decision at yesterday's and this afternoon's meeting. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will of course vote in favour of proposal No. 1, to which we are co-sponsors. We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party and the Left, but against their other two proposals. We shall vote against proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. We will vote in favour of our own proposal No. 7, 8, and 9. Proposal No. No 6 has been submitted. We shall vote against the motions. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15, of the Socialist Left Party. With reference to our posts, in particular my own post regarding the views of the law department, we will vote against I and II in the position. We'll vote for the other Roman numbers in the setting. In accordance with our long-standing practice of otherwise, voting for what we are for and against what we are against, and also voting for proposals that could perhaps be considered unnecessary and redundant, we take the position that once the proposal is presented, the content of the proposal is crucial to our vote. We will therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party and the Right, because it contains a deadline and a request to propose to amend the pollution law in order to get through the intention to build gas power plants, as referred to in the proposal. As regards proposal No: 17, we have defined CO2 not to be subject to the pollution law. So we do not want the pollution law to be weakened as an environmental policy instrument and will therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e618	I can't promise to make an equally interesting explanation of vote, but nevertheless informing the parties Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. We are voting in favour of the No. Two, three, four and five, and for proposal No. 17. We are voting in favour of IV, V, VI and VII and against all other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e625	It is quite clear from the setting how SV will vote. However, we would like to make the proposals no. 11 – 15 on transmission proposals. I urge the SV Group to vote against the Committee's recommendations I, II and III and to vote against proposal No. 16) by the Labour Party and the Right, but for proposal No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e634	The President then realized that the proposals No. 11 – 15 has been converted into transmission proposals. Several have not asked for the floor to explain the vote, and we can start with the vote. The vote will be put to the vote as follows: first there will be a vote on the proposals from the Socialist Left Party, then on the proposals from the Progressive Party, then on the proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, then on the proposals from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Left, and then on the proposal from the Progressive Party and the Right. Once we have gone so far in voting, the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, the proposal of the Labour Party and the Right and the motion for a resolution of the vote remain. In the further vote there will first be a vote on the I, then on the II and then on proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party and the Right. Then the vote is over the third, then total over IV, V, VI and VII, and finally over proposal No. 17. If no objections are raised, the proposed approach will be put forward. - It hasn't happened. The proposals of the Socialist Left Party are addressed to voting. Here the President will draw attention to the fact that the proposals No. 11-15 has been converted into transmission proposals, so that these are reformulated to ‘Recommendation’, etc. Proposal No. 11 sounds in modified form: ‘The Government is advised to consider the possibility of an energy usedirectorate as part of the work now being explored in order to streamline and reorganise the work. Such a directorate should also be responsible for the construction of water-borne heating networks.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is advised to facilitate the financing of an additional measure, including: use of heat pumps, in private households and public construction over the network lease based on a principle where the investment of the measures is financed from a fund and where the customer pays back the investment over a period of 4-6 years through the electricity bill.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine the possibility of introducing two-way communications technologies between the power producer and the consumer as part of the investigation of a two-way pricing system.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government develop a comprehensive strategy for the use of waterborne heat for heating purposes.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for an international centre for new and renewable energy sources.’.» The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It is considered biphasic. Proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Conseilant to instruct the Government to require that the use of energy at any gas power plant built on the mainland should be at least as efficient as the most energy efficient gas power plants in the EEA region.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e688	The President recalls that proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, which is printed in the setting, has not been recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e716	Proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for an exemption from the investment tax on power plants based on CO2-free technology. The Government is also asked to submit proposals on how a scheme of tax exemptions for electricity and added value for such power plants can be implemented for a period of 5 years. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e730	Proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, are addressed to voting. Here we have to split up the vote, since the Progress Party wants to vote in favour of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 4. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a programme to support the development of CO2-free gas power technologies. The programme must include support for investment and research and be based on cooperation with industry.’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal for a national allowance system in line with the guidelines adopted by the Stortinge, with a view to the possibility that this system may be operational from the 2001/2002 year onwards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e753	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e769	Proposal No. 1, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the listing and sub-privatisation of Statkraft SF.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e816	Proposal No. 16, from the Working Party and the Right, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and by 1 June 2000 at the latest, to come back with proposals for the amendment of the pollution law if it appears necessary to implement the proposal for decisions on Roman numerals I and II.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e873	Then there is proposal No. 17, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The impact requires that the pollution law is not weakened as an environmental policy instrument.’ With reference to the Prime Minister's intervention in the debate on this matter and the clarification he has provided on the Government's position on what will result from the vote on this proposal, the President will allow the vote to take place at roll call. Those who vote in favour of the proposal answer yes. Those who vote against the proposal answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e901	The majority of the majority of the population, consisting of the Labour Party and the Right, have now rejected a proposal that the pollution law should not be weakened as an environmental policy instrument, proposal No. 17. As I announced before voting, the central government cannot take further government responsibility on such a basis. I will therefore tomorrow seek His Majesty's King on the government's resignation. I would like to give the King the natural advice to turn to the parliamentary leader of the largest party in the grouping of the Workers' Party and the Right who through the vote has created this situation, that is, the Workers' Party's Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e908	In the light of the Prime Minister's announcement that he will submit the Government's removal request, the President will propose that the announced weekly programme for the coming week be discontinued. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the same time, the President will draw attention to the fact that the seminar to be held next Monday and Tuesday will go as planned. In addition, the Presidency will inform you of the resumption of the Grand Duchy's negotiations when there are grounds for doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09-2.ana.ud1207e921	There is no record.
