ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e19	This meeting shall be held by reference to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. By reference to the second paragraph of Section 74 of the Constitution, the President proposes that members of the Government be given access to the meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has requested that Ambassador Morten Wetland, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Deputy Director of the Ministry of Justice, Sissel Pettersen, have access to the meeting during the examination of case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e33	The President has had contact with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the question of whether this matter can be dealt with in an open meeting. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated that the matter should be dealt with in an open meeting. In view of this, the President will propose that the matter be dealt with on secret agenda No. 1 is taken up for treatment at the main meeting set at 1 p.m. 10th@item: inlistbox It will be the first case to be considered. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal, and this procedure is then considered to be unanimously adopted by the Stortinget. The President will propose that the minutes of this closed meeting in Stortinget be published. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will ask representatives to return today's documents to Stortinget's office or put them in the paper box on the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e85	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e88	I suggest Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e93	Aud Blattmann is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e98	On behalf of Lodve Solholm, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a notice on the rescue helicopter service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e103	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. According to the decision of the closing meeting recently held in Stortinget, the matter on the agenda for the closed meeting will be dealt with at this meeting, cf. the supplementary agenda. The President will propose that this matter be dealt with first. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before dealing with the issues on today's map, the President will propose that the morning's meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15, until the end of the current map. – No objection has been raised against it either, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e119	The President deems it most appropriate for the further reading that the Foreign Minister should first give the floor to inform the background of the matter. After consulting the team leaders, the president will then open a comment round from the party groups by up to 5 minutes for each batch.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e122	It is the Progress Party which, in accordance with the Storting Rules of Procedure, has asked for this meeting to be held, so that I can be briefed on the current negotiations on Norwegian relations with the Dublin Convention rules. The Dublin Convention is a 1990 agreement between EU countries on which country to deal with an asylum application made in an EU country. Norway and Iceland have now entered into negotiations with the EU Commission on Norwegian and Icelandic links to the Convention. The Dublin Convention is, in fact, under-used in the context of Schengen cooperation, and it is provided in our agreement on Schengen relations that a system of association is also to be agreed with the Dublin Convention. I will explain why this is a desirable development, what such an agreement should be, and what it will mean for Norway. In addition, the Dublin Convention has been mentioned earlier in various documents promoted by the Storting. First of all, it is important to stress that the Dublin Convention does not regulate the content of Norwegian asylum and refugee policies. That's what we decide. The majority will have the opportunity to discuss this policy when the Government presents its own big message on asylum and refugee policy in Norway – probably in December this year. Today’s presentation will therefore deal with the negotiation process under way, which we expect will be concluded before Christmas, so that a roll-out on ratification of the outcome of the negotiations can be discussed with a view to putting the whole Schengen acquis into effect from March next year, as provided by the parties. Secondly, the Dublin Convention is part of European judicial cooperation and determines the country in which a case belongs. These rules are part of the dynamic development that is now taking place in the field of justice within the EU. They are a significant response to challenges from the outside world. These are challenges also facing Norway. The pressure on external borders has increased significantly as a result of refugee flows and trafficking in human beings. Organised international crime is a serious and progressive problem. These problems cannot be addressed solely by national instruments. They require cooperation and solidarity. Thirdly, the Amsterdam Treaty’s objective of developing the EU into an ‘area of freedom, security and justice’ is precisely intended to meet these challenges constructively. Illegal immigration must be faced not only with stricter border controls but also with positive measures in the countries of origin. This will make justice policy issues a more integrated part of the EU's third country relations and the common foreign and security policy. The government will come back with a comprehensive presentation of this subject in the context of the submission of the European Communication later in the autumn. However, the matter I am going to explain today is – as I have mentioned – of a more limited nature. It is a desire of the Government to conclude an agreement on Norwegian association with the Dublin Convention. This is apparent from Article 7 of our Schengen Cooperation Agreement, referred to in St.prp. No 50 for 1998-99. It states that an appropriate mechanism on criteria and mechanisms should be agreed to determine the country responsible for examining an asylum application submitted in a Member State of the European Union or Iceland or Norway. Such a mechanism should be established within the operational Schengen cooperation for the Nordic countries. So far from the Schengen Agreement. The necessary legislative changes for the implementation of the Dublin Convention were presented by the previous government of Ot.prp. No 56 for 1998-99, on amendments resulting from the Schengen cooperation. The Government is committed to keeping this timetable, so that a Norwegian link should exist before the Schengen acquis is operationally implemented for Norway in March 2001. The Dublin Convention lays down the rules on which EU countries are to deal with asylum applications that are being promoted in the Member States. It also gives asylum seekers the right to have an asylum application processed in one of the Member States. So we should not have a situation where an asylum application is rejected everywhere. The purpose of the Dublin Convention is primarily to prevent asylum seekers from being referred back and forth between Member States without having to deal with the asylum application. We will avoid asylum seekers becoming ballistics between Member States without anyone taking responsibility for dealing with their asylum applications. The Convention shall also discourage the processing by the authorities of more than one country of asylum applications promoted in several Member States. The Dublin Convention states that if an asylum seeker is finally refused in one Member State and then travels to a new Member State and seeks asylum, the last country can send the asylum seeker back to the first country without addressing the asylum issue. However, a Member State is free to deal with an asylum application even if there is no obligation to it under the Convention. Norway can therefore always decide that we should deal with an asylum application, even if we do not have an international obligation to do so. And as I said, the Dublin Convention does not regulate the conditions for granting asylum. But it contains a reference to the 1951 United Nations Convention on Refugees, which virtually all countries are associated with it. So the Dublin Convention is a convention that regulates procedural issues and not the conditions for granting asylum. Thus, there is no common EU policy on asylum, but the Treaty of Amsterdam sets a target for EU countries to adopt harmonised minimum standards by 2004 – in accordance with the UN Convention on Refugees for the Grant of Asylum. Such minimum standards are unlikely to have any particular impact on most countries that practice refugee policy in line with our own. Moreover, the experience of the EU shows that the Dublin Convention has some weaknesses and so far has not functioned fully according to its assumptions. These include: It is difficult to identify asylum seekers quickly and get an overview of their immigration history — in other words, an overview of which countries they actually come from and which route they have followed. In order to improve the effectiveness of cooperation under the Dublin Convention, EU countries have planned to set up a computer system – Eurodac – to store and exchange fingerprints and some personal data for evidence purposes in asylum cases. Eurodac could lead to a significantly more flexible identification of foreign affairs and repatriation between European countries. Since 1991, the Norwegian Foreign Law has had rules allowing the storage and exchange of fingerprints in foreign affairs. Eurodac is based on and deepens the EU Data Protection Directive, which is part of the EEA Agreement. The information that can be registered in Eurodac is limited and such information cannot be provided to third countries. This is in line with current Norwegian practice, which requires the consent of the data subject to be provided to Eurodac. The government believes that it is a great advantage if we also join the Eurodac cooperation when it comes in place. When this happens, it's hard to say, but maybe in a few years. Iceland also wants the same thing. The Treaty of Amsterdam provides that the Dublin Convention is to be replaced by Community rules by 2004 at the latest. The issue now is how to link Norway and Iceland to the current Dublin Convention decision-making mechanism, as well as how to take decisions when the Dublin acquis becomes part of a joint EU cooperation. The issue of Norwegian participation in decision-making is well known in the EEA Agreement and in the Schengen Cooperation Agreement. It is against this background that Norway is now negotiating with the European Commission and Iceland. We base the discussions on a draft association agreement that Norway has received from the Commission. As we have experience from the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement, it is a question of how Norway – as a non-member country of the EU – should not only be associated with the rules, but also of how we should participate in the negotiations on the possible development of new legislation. In the negotiations, the European Commission has proposed the establishment of a ‘Mixed Committee’. This Joint Committee shall be composed of Norway, Iceland and the EU Commission. The Schengen Cooperation Agreement establishes a Joint Body in which Norway and Iceland meet with the EU Member State. The Schengen Cooperation Agreement has been concluded between Norway, Iceland and the Council of the European Union under a separate protocol to the Treaty of Amsterdam. What the EU is currently proposing is to link Norway and Iceland to the Dublin Convention through a Community agreement, where the Commission is our counterpart on the EU side. And the reason for this is that, after the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, it is now the Commission which represents the Community in relation to third countries in asylum and immigration policy, which is covered by Pillar I. Norway also wants direct contacts with Member States’ representatives – both in the decision-making process under the Dublin Convention and in the development of new Community rules in the field of the Dublin Convention. At the same time, it is important to be aware that the Dublin Convention is much more limited in substance than the Schengen Cooperation Agreement. And we don't expect that there will be a lot of new legislation in this area. Both for the EU and for the Government, it is a key issue to close the negotiations quickly, so that we do not risk delaying the planned implementation of the operational Schengen cooperation in March next year. Such a postponement would include all the Nordic countries. I assume that the negotiation result will be presented to the Stortinget in the form of a proposition. Immigration and refugee policy in the EU is also important for Norway because it largely determines the development and influx of refugees to our own country. In addition, asylum policy and refugee policy through the Treaty of Amsterdam have become an integral part of EU policies and legislation. Our Nordic neighbours, who are members of the EU, will now be more likely than before to deal with this. It is therefore particularly important for Norway to be briefed on these developments in the EU. All of this comes closer to the Government in the big messages that I have referred to, on asylum and refugee policy and, in particular, on the European message.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e181	Then open a comment round with posts of up to 5 minutes from each of the batch groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e184	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has made a detailed presentation of the work under way in connection with the Norwegian association with the rules of the Dublin Convention. Of course, I agree with the assessments made in the Foreign Minister's speeches on that occasion. So just a few brief comments on the matter. As a result of the consent of the Storting to the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement with the Schengen countries, it is necessary to agree a mechanism for association also with the Dublin Convention. The size has also expressed its view of the Dublin Convention in the past. As a result of the cooperation agreement with the Schengen countries, the Stortinget adopted the Schengen Information System (SIS) Act in June 1999 and amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. The majority stated at the time that although Norway’s connection to the Dublin Convention would be a future negotiating issue, as the Stortinget saw, it would be right to base this Convention on the responsibility for handling asylum applications. With regard to the specific content of the Convention, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made it thoroughly clear. I just want to stress the fact that it does not regulate the content of Norwegian asylum or refugee policy. Although the starting point of the Convention is that only one country should be responsible for examining an asylum application, each Schengen country remains free to take asylum applications during treatment. This means to us that Norway can always decide that we should deal with an asylum application, even if we have no international obligation to do so. It is also important to stress, as the Foreign Minister did in his speech, that the Dublin Convention does not regulate the conditions for granting asylum, but that it regulates procedural issues. Finally, the outcome of the negotiations with the European Commission on the Norwegian link to the Dublin Convention will, as has been said today, be presented in the form of a proposal, and the Stortinget will be given the opportunity to discuss asylum and refugee policy in full scope at the time of the government’s presentation of its own report on this issue later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e197	I would also like to endorse the Government's negotiating arrangements and, of course, the objective of accession to the Dublin Convention. I fully agree with the Foreign Minister who stresses that it is about finishing the negotiations, getting a proposal for ratification, so that work on the implementation of the Schengen Agreement, which we have always supported, can come into force in March next year, and that at the same time we have had accession to the Dublin Convention. I pay particular attention to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, and which the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party also stressed: when the Convention enters into force, Norway is given the opportunity to return the asylum seeker to that country without dealing with the asylum application in Norway, which has been dealt with in advance in another country that is a member of the Dublin Convention. It is in so far as a follow-up to the 1951 UN Convention, the so-called First Asylum Rule. However, both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Hill-Marta Solberg said that if Norway itself would, we could nevertheless deal with an asylum application. There is therefore the freedom for Norway to deal with an application that has been rejected in another country. I would therefore like to point out, in this context, that the Progress Party will, of course, later come forward with a concrete proposal, so that it becomes Norwegian policy that asylum seekers are automatically returned to the country that has already dealt with the application. We cannot see any reason why, if an asylum seeker has been treated in another Dublin Convention country in accordance with that country's rules and has been refused, it should be necessary for us to impose a new treatment on our own system. As you know, there is already a long process for asylum seekers who come to Norway directly and get their cases dealt with here. So we must at least be able to save our case handlers from going through matters that have been processed in another asylum country. It should be interesting if the Minister of Foreign Affairs can confirm in his final statement that the Government also believes that we should not look at applications that have been completed in another country and that have been rejected. Moreover, we also hope that we can gradually have rules that require asylum seekers to seek asylum in the country they first come to when they leave their own country. It is a bit remarkable that asylum seekers come to Norway from other parts of the world that obviously must have traveled through a number of countries to get to Norway. It should be the neighbouring countries that have this obligation, rather than being able to continue with current practice. However, we agree to the negotiating arrangement, hope that things will go well and that Norway will act in such a way as to get into port before Christmas, and so that we can join this work in March next year. It should be interesting if the Government can also confirm that they share the view of the Progress Party that we should save our case handlers from going through asylum applications that have been rejected in advance in another country within the Dublin Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e210	As is well known, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, SV and RV opposed Norwegian relations to Schengen cooperation when this was being dealt with in the Stortinget in the spring of 1997. Among the issues that we stressed for our part were the scepticism and consequences of asylum and refugee policy and privacy considerations. Both parties have commented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Christian People's Party has taken note of the fact that the majority of the Grand Duchy voted in favour of the Schengen cooperation and has also joined the central government's draft law on the ratification of the cooperation agreement with the Schengen countries when this was discussed in the Grand Duchy last year. In Ot.prp. No 56 for 1998-1999 the Government informed: ‘Norway’s connection to this Convention is a future question of negotiation and the question of what institutional form such an association will have is not resolved today’.» This is therefore the background to the fact that the negotiations that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has presented are now under way. The legal obligations arising from such an agreement appear to be essentially relatively clear. However, there is reason to be aware of how practice is put in place, because the rational practice of a common regulatory framework could help to reduce the skepticism and concerns expressed in the past. I would therefore like to point out, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, three aspects that we believe need to be emphasised in the negotiations and the design of practices that now stand at the door. Firstly, we are committed to ensuring that the practice of Norway's obligations takes place in a way that provides maximum security for the responsible and good treatment of all asylum applications. This is also important in view of the fact that a common regulatory framework is now to be applied in countries where legal practices in such cases could naturally vary. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the Dublin Convention itself does not affect the content of asylum and refugee matters. We decide that ourselves, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. It also means that we want to make sure that there is no pressure of conformity in this cooperation that will weaken the opportunities for persecuted persons to receive asylum and protection in Western Europe. The Convention implies that it is the responsibility of each EU country for the asylum seekers to whom it has issued a visa. If this country finds out that the conditions are not in place for a stay, it is this country, after all the appeals are out, who is responsible for the asylum seeker leaving not only the country but the entire area covered by the agreement. This means that all countries included in the agreement, i.e. Norway, too, is obliged to take decisions in any other country, despite the fact that there may be different perceptions, traditions and practices on such issues. We should, for our part, be on guard, so that the consequences of such harmonisation do not become a marked intensification of the right to asylum based on the fundamental humanitarian and human rights conditions that Norway has always stressed in such matters. Finally, I would like to mention our need to ensure that there are arrangements that take the necessary interest in privacy, including: in relation to the supply of fingerprints. I would also like to point out that Norway is cooperating in a number of organisations on issues that affect immigration and refugee policy differently – in this case in EFTA, in the UN, and not least in relation to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, in the Council of Europe, in the OSCE and in the OECD. A number of these organisations are involved in strengthening human rights and legal certainty practices. Therefore, the work on these objectives that I have outlined must continue to be carried out on a broad basis, including within these organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e234	It is a most unusual step to bring a case from the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee into plenary session. It shows that it has to be reserved for those matters where it really matters to the case, and that it carries the matter forward. I must honestly admit that I was very surprised that this matter was brought in for plenary, and looked forward to hearing the reason for that. I have to find out after listening to Carl I. Hagen that he did not have any reason why the matter was brought in for plenary. The reality is that this procedure, at least so far, has not brought the matter about anything new. The government had a solid foundation in the Inner East. O. No 89 for 1998-1999 to go further in the case, where the whole of the Grand Duchy, with the exception of the Central Party, made it very clear that they wanted to apply the Dublin Convention. The only thing we had to deal with in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee was the question of the connection mechanisms themselves, as far as I can see, now they've got their approval from most of the Stortinget. That's why, to the extent that we've now had some kind of wish price, we've been through this before. I can then make my contribution to the price of the wish by saying that we of course stand by everything we have said about this before. We believe that it is very reasonable to enter into these negotiations, and I believe that the Foreign Minister will succeed in the negotiating ambitions he has here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e243	Like Jan Petersen, I am quite surprised that on such a basis as is present today, you have chosen to ask for this matter to be dealt with in Stortinget. It is a negotiating mandate that we are talking about, and as the Foreign Minister has said, we will have two further opportunities to discuss Norwegian accession to the Dublin Convention – both in the context of the European message and in the context of ratification of the negotiations at the beginning of next year. I therefore do not want to go into a real debate on the content of the Dublin Convention. Our position on the question will be clarified when there is finally ratification, and our starting point should be well known from the previous treatments. It is, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, one country that will be responsible for the handling of asylum applications. In principle, it is of course possible to process applications on a voluntary basis also in other countries. In practice it will be difficult, and the illustrated representative Carl I. Hagen quite well through his intervention. A more stringent practice in relation to asylum applications than that practised by the EU will not be desirable first, nor will it be possible to pursue a more stringent asylum and refugee policy than the EU countries themselves do. And a milder practice will cause us considerable problems by the fact that Norway will thus be chosen as first-aid country. So, in practice, it will be extremely difficult to imagine that we are going to conduct an independent asylum and refugee policy that deviates from that of the EU countries themselves. It will over time lead to a narrowing of Norwegian asylum and refugee policies, and thus a deviation from the policies we have so far led, and a deviation from the humanitarian and human considerations we have so far chosen to take. That is why the Dublin Convention is definitely not a completely unchallenging matter. I understand that the representative Carl I. Hagen welcomes it, because the Progress Party sees its cut to have a more stringent asylum and refugee policy than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e250	The SV sees the need for European cooperation in the field of refugee policy, but this cooperation must not primarily focus on building a wall around Europe that becomes impermeable to people on the run from other parts of the world. We do not want a 'Festing Europe' to be formed. We believe that it is important for Norway to retain an opportunity for a degree of autonomy in refugee policy. In contrast to the Progress Party, SV has also been strongly critical of a square practice of the primary rule for asylum seekers. It is, of course, positive if the Convention prevents asylum seekers from becoming ballistics between different countries without having their application properly treated. But today, as SV sees it, there is a great danger that asylum seekers with a real need for protection will not be allowed to stay, among other things. as a result of visa obligations. The core of refugee policy must not only be to shut out, but it must also be to ensure protection for those who have a real need for it. What we are discussing today are preparations for negotiations to take place in Norway. SV will of course await the final case before we decide on the substance of the Dublin Convention. One side of this convention to which we in SV are critical is the development of the Eurodac computer system. We ask questions about whether sufficient data protection is being taken into account in this very comprehensive European Central Register. This shall include fingerprints and other personal data. In this context, a question will be whether an asylum seeker will be deleted from the register if he or she is allowed to stay. It is unfortunate if the register involves the very long-term registration of large population groups, and thus their suspicion. It does not seem quite clear how accession to the Dublin Convention will affect Norwegian refugee policy. This may become clearer when we get the case in its entirety for treatment. What will be crucial for us is that Norway will also be able to pursue an independent asylum policy in the future, and that we will be able to pursue a human asylum policy even after we have joined the Dublin Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e261	I must also agree with the speakers who have stated that this was a strange event. There was a little run-in without a jump. It is historic that such a case is brought to the House by the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I had actually expected a somewhat more important reason that then happened than what is now the case. But we'll have to bring it with us anyway. For me, it is important, of course, to wish the Government good luck with this, which is the work of the Government, to complete these negotiations, but since there is now an opportunity to send a few words on the way in the negotiations, I will place the decisive emphasis on what I regard as important liberal fundamental values in terms of the nature of the association agreement to the Dublin Convention. Firstly, I place the decisive emphasis on what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that Norway alone is responsible for the refugee and asylum policy in Norway. It also means that the Dublin Convention does not regulate criteria for asylum in Norway; that is what Norway should do. And I am concerned – and I hope – that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, if he answers the question from Carl I. Hagen in his closing round, does not now deny the possibility of having an asylum treatment in Norway also for those who have a right to asylum treatment in another country, and in that way can be a brighter haven for people fleeing than Carl I. Hagen might wish. We in the Left are concerned that the right to asylum should be effective also in other countries in Europe. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also stressed this in his first post today. I am also concerned that when this Convention is to be operationalised and made practicable through the registration and collection of personal data on databases, it is important that Norway is a driver at all stages in order to take care of the necessary data protection considerations that we believe must be present, inter alia. through the Eurodac system when it comes up and goes. I will end by expressing my hope for the announced big message on refugee and asylum policy, and wish the Foreign Minister good luck with the negotiations on this convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e275	First of all, I must thank you for the continued agreement here in Stortinget that we should conduct these negotiations. So I'll say a little bit to a couple of questions that's traveled here. Carl I. Hagen asked if the government would follow the line he said the Progress Party would propose, namely that it should be automatic in that once an application has been dealt with in a country, it has been dealt with at the same time in Norway. I don't want to say that line right now that the government wants to hang up. The rule should be as referred to in my statement, namely that we have the opportunity, once an application has been dealt with in one of the other countries, to reject it in Norway for that reason, but at the same time we should keep the possibility that an application may still be dealt with in Norway. There may be cases where it can be considered natural. I don't think that will lead to much strain on the Norwegian authorities, as the Chairman of the Advance Party here suggested. So I just want to say that the questions that Einar Steensnæs raised, in my opinion, have been taken into account in the Dublin Convention legislation. As regards the issue of data protection in relation to Eurodac, which was raised by Lisbet Rughtvedt, I would like to recall that Eurodac is based on and deepens the EU Data Protection Directive, which is part of the EEA Agreement. The information that can be registered in Eurodac is limited and such information cannot be provided to third countries. These include: rules on storage, rectification and deletion, as agreed by Lisbet Rugtvedt, of this Regulation. This is in line with the practice that Norway already has. Finally, I just want to say a few words to Odd Roger Enoxen and Lisbet Ruggvedt, who were concerned that Europe should not create a wall around itself that could lead to a tighter and more inhuman refugee and asylum policy. That's not the point. The point is to have a fair refugee and asylum policy. It must be an objective for every country in Europe to ensure that those who actually have the right to get in and get asylum get it, and that it is not those who have the greatest opportunities because of either economics or relations with people involved in human trafficking, etc., who come in. This legislation will, of course, have the potential to ensure a humane refugee and asylum policy, so that it is not the strongest law that applies, but that those who actually have rights are given the opportunity to obtain asylum in the European country. That is the purpose of the Dublin Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e288	Then we're done dealing with the supplementary agenda, and we're going to the ordinary file card.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e300	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 267]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e314	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Right 10 minutes each, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e325	The Consumer Communication, which marks the first thorough review of consumer work since 1983, was presented by the Centre Government and discussed in the Committee before the summer. When it has lasted so long with the debate in Stortinget, it is related to the fact that before the summer, the Committee chose to give a thorough examination of the notification, which has also led us in many areas to put more policy into the communication than was originally done there. Both the notification and the suspension form the basis for a new focus on consumer policy, and with the new orientation in place, I believe that both the focus and the status of consumer policy will increase. It is a broad majority to state that the objective of consumer policy is to give people the opportunity to make choices that ensure a more sustainable consumption pattern, also in recognising that the increasing growth in consumption is one of the greatest environmental policy challenges facing people. There has been a tradition that the Norwegian authorities have taken a great deal of responsibility for safeguarding consumers’ rights, and that remains the case. But at the same time, globalisation is facing new challenges where national regulations alone are not always enough. For me, it is good for once to point out the positive situation in the EU, where consumer power has been used to ensure policy objectives for consumers. It has also become increasingly central to consumer policy in the context of distribution policy — and we are thinking of both international distribution and generational distribution. Having a consumption today that both reduces the ability of future generations to meet their needs, and that prevents development in underdeveloped countries, the Communication focuses on this and states that this is incompatible with the objectives we are now drawing up for consumer policy. If we look south – and then we don’t have to go further than Denmark – there has been a completely different pressure in consumer policy. Things happen here at home too, but there has been no tradition of giving the same position here to the consumer work. In this area, the Workers' Party will now have changes. That also means that we have to look at the tools we have. Where prohibition has been a traditional way of regulating the market, we see that there are coming new and perhaps equally effective alternatives. Where globalisation and the demands for interaction with other countries make the bans prohibited or inappropriate, new ways are emerging, such as: marking. We have had relatively little tradition for this at home, but it needs to focus more on it in the future. Let me give you an example in this way: when we don't meet our standards for additives in food, we get demands for labelling that make it crystal clear to consumers what consequences it will have. And it'll be at least as effective as a ban. The majority of the Committee has also chosen to take on board what has been proven through research in the 1990s. Material wealth and quality of life are not necessarily interrelated. Not least, Dag Hareide's study on behalf of Hedmark County Municipality has made this visible. This, of course, must also have consequences for consumer policy. Of course, for those groups where this continues to be important, it should be followed up. However, today’s communication also, in this context, distorts the focus on consumer policy and makes it more significant in several policy areas, such as: environment and distribution. The political differences between the Centre, the Workers' Party and the SV on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other are thus also made visible. The right-wing parties will have a very passive consumer policy, while the majority will adopt a new and offensive policy. It will lead to too much access to all the areas mentioned in the setting, but I'm going to get some in. The public is a very large consumer. As a result, it is also important to have a conscious procurement policy. In order to stimulate the use of environmentally-rich products, it is important to raise the turnover and reduce the cost difference for traditional products. Let me give you two examples of this: different agricultural ministers from different parties have had problems getting milk producers to invest in organic products properly. This makes it too expensive and not accessible to consumers. Of course, the reason has been that it is not economically interesting to bet more strongly on this. But in Denmark it has been possible to do so. If we had made it public just to ask for organic dairy products, I am sure that Tine had finally got his finger out. There we have an opportunity to use our power as a consumer to change the market focus, even in a way that I think the right parties are happy about: without a single legal regulation. Another example is the proposal from the centre and SV on organic food and fair coffee in the country. It will have much of the same effect, and the most severe exchange that happens in the third world, just coffee production, could have been reduced. It is at the heart of the consumer policy that is now being pursued. When the Labour Party chooses not to support this proposal today, it has nothing to do with the proposal. But this is not something you pinch in your fingers to do. The first thing to do here is to coordinate public procurement policy in order to get a real boost from work and to follow it up with other consumers as well. And it must be anchored everywhere. But it's a road that we have to start going. Food has become an important consumer issue internationally. In the free markets there have been strong consumer organisations that make it impossible to mix and trick with our food without any consequences, especially when there is no guarantee of health. With globalisation, at home, we too need to develop a consumer opinion that can react in the same way. Genetics is one of the issues to which there is a lot of interest and much uncertainty. It is both a consumer issue and a business policy issue. We don't have to sit in a situation that makes us "meat" with our food, or that we expose our consumers to health risks. Therefore, pure food is important to us for the sake of consumers. However, in some areas technological progress is so rapid that we do not have the necessary security for this. That is why the majority has now also asked for a temporary ban — or moratorium, as it is called — against such products in order to ensure both the environment and consumers. We will come back to that in later articles as well. One of the comments that have attracted much attention is the majority’s reference to the imbalance between the resources used for advertising and consumer information. When it is used more than a hundred times more in advertising than in consumer information, it goes without saying that it is not so easy to reach the neutral information. In order to ensure consumers – and we record that the Right Party and the Advance Party are opposed – we have asked that consideration be given to the possibility of offsetting this imbalance through, for example: a fee. A fee for all advertising on 1 pst. So we want to double the resources we have for consumer information. That is why we have asked for an assessment of this from the Government. Of course, there can be many arguments against this, and it is also done by those who are at risk of this being imposed, but it does not frighten us from asking for such an assessment. And then we'll see if it's possible to get to such a system in a reasonable way. It leads me to the organisation of the consumer apparatus. It is obvious that it is mature for reorganizations. Stronger distinctions between the exercise of powers and the representation of consumers are necessary, and it is important to have more effective organisation to avoid duplication and unnecessary duplication of competences and to get more money out where consumer work takes place. On the other hand, we have clearly stated that we do not want to get a new directorate. County offices and their sub-offices are important in ensuring the availability of the individual consumer. That is why I am also pleased that the Workers' Party has received support to maintain these. We have also recorded that in particular the four northernmost states have very good experience of having a political anchoring in the county. This was transformed into a voluntary scheme some years ago because there were very different experiences with it. That is exactly why we do not want to impose a legal requirement on it either. It must be up to the local authorities themselves to decide on this, because no one has been served with county councils if not taken seriously. However, this also maintains the possibility for those states that wish to continue with this scheme, and the experience is that this is a strength for consumer work when taken seriously. We have also asked for a closer look at the relationship between consumer offices and competition authorities so that consumer work can be brought together in the consumer appliance. But here we expect the department to come back with the organization when the work is done and you're ready to take a new position on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e351	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e354	The public sector is a very large buyer of products and services and is thus able to control large parts of the population’s purchasing patterns. Is not the representative Alstad concerned that the voluntary choice of products and services is being narrowed and is it just a matter of state procurement that will limit the supply of goods, as small operators cannot join in and offer their services and goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e359	The public is a big consumer today. If we were to be afraid that the public with its purchasing policy would cause too much inconvenience to consumers, it would also have been the situation as it is today. Today the public does not have a general policy regarding purchases in the areas I was in. That the public will help to focus in that direction, I think, on the contrary, will be involved in securing consumers and not the opposite, namely to be a disadvantage to them. On the contrary, I think it is time for the public to take the responsibility of the large consumer the public, precisely to ensure that even the private consumers get better offers, to have more choice and to have the ability to choose the products that are also ecologically, environmentally and distributed correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e366	After we received the consumer message, it took a long time for it to be processed, because of the government change. When we first started the treatment, I got the impression that it was an alternative to the agricultural message we were going to debate, because it became more and more focused on food issues, which are rightly mentioned in the communication, but which obviously should not be the central one, or the most central one, when discussing a consumer policy message that should primarily deal with the organisation of the consumer device. I note that, with the good support of the various centre parties, Mr Alstad has made the comments in the communication on an attack on globalisation, free trade and the market economy. I think it's interesting if these are the Workers' Party's signals. In many areas, when one is also moving towards proposing new taxes, it is not surprising. I have a question for the representative, Alstad, who spoke warmly about the advertising fee. Who does the representative Alstad think is the one who is going to pay this advertising fee? Is it not also for the seventh and last consumers who are then charged this extra charge? Someone has to pay the bill, and we know who gets it: consumers. I really hope that the government does not follow up this majority proposal, and that they put the matter away. It might be interesting to hear the representative Alstad emigrating on how this fee may be charged, who will be responsible for the collection, and how it will work. I think this is a proposal that is completely wild. And if you look at it in the context of other proposals that we now have to deal with, that relate to marketing — among other things. the prohibition of entry into the newspapers, which will remove the land under the economy of Norwegian newspapers, etc. – I have to say that I am very uncertain about where the Workers' Party really wants to go in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e375	It is reassuring to hear that the right has at last been concerned with the economy of the newspapers. That's not what we've been used to from that edge in recent years. Of course, food issues are important in consumer matters. I record that the Right obviously does not think that we should focus on it to the extent that the bulk of the population does today. But I have also registered that the right, on the other hand, is very concerned about food prices. So I can't quite see the context of the argument that comes from the right here. Food is important for consumers, it is strongly focused on it, internationally and to a large extent also in Norway. It also has to be the Storting taking inwards and dealing with, and we want to do that. There is absolutely no attack on either free trade or globalisation in the current state of play. On the contrary, there is a follow-up where one takes the consequences of free trade and globalisation, and where one also tries to use some of the tools and some of the thinking developed by other countries to address the disadvantages of free trade and globalisation. Because we can't stick under the chair that there's an unfortunate outcome of that too. As regards the advertising fee, I believe 1 pst. the turnover of advertising used for consumer information rather than for advertising serves consumers. We will see when you come back with the assessment to be made, how you can technically charge such a fee. I don't see that as the task of Storting to design. We say that we want to get an assessment of it, and we'll see when we get it back, if and how it's possible to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e386	Alstad was in his post quite a bit involved in food quality. I think there is a broad consensus that we need to ensure both good labelling and a solid food quality in Norway. When I asked for the word in reply, it was because Alstad also referred to the way consumers exercise their power – in Denmark, I think he said specifically – and because after a meeting a while ago about the Food Mining Directive, there was quite a lot of uncertainty about what was conveyed by attitudes of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and how the chains, i.e. those selling the food, were to relate to or had thoughts about dealing with food covered by the Food Mining Directive. Now this is a matter that you will come back to in an open big meeting, but I want to challenge the case rapporteur whether he sees problems related to, for example. voluntary agreements for the chains, whether they would be contrary to EU and EEA competition law, and how they would ensure that the intentions in relation to the Food Mining Directive, which I understand was established by the Government in the past, are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e395	The representative, Enger Lahnstein, asks a question where it will lead very far to an assessment of all the areas in this context. It could have been a good thing that all the questions raised were with the Consumer Committee. That's not the way the world is and that's not the way Stortinget is organized. However, this Communication makes it very clear that consumer policy is essential to ensure that consumers are not given food that can be harmful to health. Then we're going to make sure that we do it in a way that at least gives consumers the opportunity to choose. Let me take an example in the case of gene food from the United States, where a large batch of taco shellion was withdrawn yesterday because it was found that it contained genetic products – not because it was banned in the United States, but because the producer was terrified of what consumer attitudes would be like. It doesn't work the same way in Norway today, but I think we have to develop it anyway, because sin has come into the world, it's very hard to track down, it's very difficult to protect itself from. And even though we in Norway can so far adopt what we want by law against it, that does not mean that we are automatically protected from this. However, we need to have an up-to-date consumer organisation and awareness that enables us to discover this and thus provide consumers with information and choices that allow them to make choices – based on information on how food will turn out in relation to their own health.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e402	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e406	St.meld. No 40 deals with some consumer policy issues and proposals for a new organisation of the consumer apparatus. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the message comes with few concrete solutions, but it comes with some views that can give some insight into future policy in this area. It's been a long time since the Storting had a general discussion on these issues, and the last document that has provided the basis for discussing them was St. prp. No 80 for 1982-93. Many are of the opinion that it is now time to hold a major debate on the general principles of consumer policy, and major challenges are identified in the following areas: environmental and distribution issues related to consumption, consumer purchasing power developments, assumptions and attitudes, changes in the supply of goods and services, competition and the structure of the market, technological development and internationalisation. The Party considers that the type of consumer policy referred to in the notification is only part of consumer policy. Consumers' best protection is in effective competition on the market. Competition may be restricted either by the operators themselves or by the authorities, such as: in the health and education sectors. The Progress Party therefore considers it the primary task of consumer policy to ensure that private and public monopolies are abolished in such a way that consumers have the freedom of choice in obtaining goods or services. Another important form of protection lies at the level of civil law, where individuals may avail themselves of the courts for the purposes of, inter alia, the Directive. cancellation and replacement. This presupposes inter alia: that the courts do not charge excessive legal fees, as at present. The form of consumer policy addressed in the notification is considered by the Progress Party to be subsidiary, i.e. that it is primarily concerned with the weakness of competition and the inadequacy of the legal instrument. The Party of Progress does not agree with what is claimed on p. 14 in the message: ‘The penalties which individual consumers may impose by repurchasing a product are of little importance as a market signal,...’.» On the contrary, the Progress Party considers this to be the most important of all market signals. The message also contains a number of considerations of a general nature. The message points to statistics such as: This suggests that consumption is much higher in poor countries than in rich countries, claiming that this is related to the allocation of resources. This formulation diverges attention from the main point of view, namely that rich countries have the power to organise their social and production apparatus in such a way that resources are used efficiently to generate high returns. It is not primarily a question of distribution, but of efficiency. The Party considers that it is necessary to lay down some general principles for the public role of consumer policy. This will include, inter alia: be as follows: The public shall not interfere with the choice and wishes of the individual consumer. Consumption is fundamental to growth in society and job security for the future. The public shall have a controlling role/supervisory role on behalf of consumers. In its supervisory role, it shall ensure that consumers and society are protected against harmful products and misinformation via advertising. The public shall ensure that the necessary information on the rights and obligations of consumers and on harmful products flows to consumers. The public shall ensure that there is an appropriate means of dispute resolution which is easily accessible to the individual consumer. The public shall ensure that competition on the consumer market is sufficient at all times and that rules of the game are followed. The Progress Party records that consumer protection is also well-managed by many private actors. Many magazines, newspapers and television programmes address current consumer substances in a good way. This meets a great deal of the information needs of consumers. There is good reason to believe that these commercial operators will still bring this type of substance, precisely because there is good substance that sells well. Today's consumer appliance is made up of a number of units. The Norwegian organisational pattern differs from that of the other Nordic countries, which have consistently fewer units and a dominant external level of directorate characteristics. It was previously proposed to merge all the consumer institutions at that time. The Rimberg Committee fell on the so-called ‘independence model’, which suggests that most consumer-related agencies are grouped in an independent management body. The point of progress is of the opinion that substantial changes need to be made in the organisation of the consumer appliance. The Party for Progress therefore proposes the following: «Consumer interest supervision shall be established. This is organised as an independent administrative body, with its own board responsible for monitoring the functioning of consumer supervision.’;» In addition, the Progress Party wishes to make the following proposals: ‘A system is established whereby the Board of Appeal is the Board of Appeal also in respect of the decisions of the Competition Authority.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e469	The representative of Bredvold has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e472	The central government’s report on consumer policy in 1998 has been going on for a while, but it has finally come to a conclusion – after the change of government and committee management. An overarching discussion on consumer policy was high. The message's main theme is sustainable development and the environmental and distribution aspects nationally and internationally. The Christian People's Party believes that values such as administrative responsibility and quality of life should also be an important and integrated part of consumer policy. Consumer policy has traditionally been defined as a policy to strengthen the position of consumers in the market. The Christian People's Party believes that environmental and distribution challenges give new and more long-term perspectives to consumer policy. The growth in consumption of scarce natural resources in the West cannot continue at the pace we have today. A still strong growth in consumption is not consistent with sustainable development. We in the rich West have a special stewardship responsibility. That administrative responsibility will be taken seriously by the Christian People's Party. We don't want to cultivate a hold in the direction of consuming as much as possible at the lowest price possible. Many central themes will be handled in St.meld. No 40: modernisation of the public sector, food issues, marketing, distance marketing and ICT, product security, insurance, banking and credit services, debt and payment problems, purchase of housing, consumer education, dispute resolution and future organisation of consumer equipment. This is an important theme, but it doesn't appear to fit everyone in a 5 minute post. In particular, I would like to stop and point out that there must be a value base at the bottom when designing a consumer policy – a value base that gives direction when it comes to the level of consumption, the composition of consumption and the consequences for the environment resulting from consumption. Life-quality surveys over the ten-year period 1985-1995 show that a marked increase in the number of herds of herds has not made us more satisfied. The Christian People's Party felt it was positive that the consumer message raised this value debate, precisely at a time when everything indicates that we are increasingly influenced by material values. On the basis of this, I would particularly like to stop at the particular responsibility we have for the children and the young people meeting with the commercial market. The Christian People's Party is afraid of a development in which children and young people are increasingly target groups for marketing. I have noted that the Consumer Environment has recorded an increasing trend in the use of aggressive drugs that were selected in advertising. The trend in sales advances towards children and young people is increasing, with the aim of raising awareness by shocking or breaking borders. Commercialisation and a more aggressive and targeted marketing towards children and young people can also create a distorted view of human beings by attaching their value for one-sided to the capacity as a consumer. But even if we could occasionally wish that, it's not that we can turn off the information stream and come back to a time without information stream and commercialization. As far as possible and necessary, we need to have measures to strengthen the security and knowledge of children and young people in order to deal with and assess the content of information and advertising. The Christian People's Party therefore, together with the plurality of the committee, stares in the big news of banning advertising directed against children. We are also positive in the setting to the presentation of a selection to look at and take action to reduce the commercial pressure on children and young people. Food security has also received some attention in the configuration. A number stress that the health effect of foods containing genetically modified ingredients needs to be monitored. The majority ask the Government to consider introducing a moratorium on such a product. This is important. The organisation of consumer work in the future has also been noted. The Christian People's Party has supported further work on a reform model that should be based on reasonable independence, a bottom-up approach. Local involvement is important. When it comes to the reorganisation of the consumer device, Stortingen will get it back as its own business. It is important that the Storting gets back to this at a later time. I take up the proposals where the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e495	The representative of Molvær Grimstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e500	The Christian People's Party is involved in a number of comments that are in line with what I said instead: they are sceptical about globalisation, about the market economy and about free trade. There is also talk of replacing an increased standard of living with an increased quality of life – one that sets it as a two-way street. And it's quite interesting that it's kind of necessary to go down to standard of living to increase the quality of life, so that one can interpret the Christian People's Party. But there are also notes here that are quite interesting, which actually the Working Party, SV and Center have merged, among other things. this: ‘This majority subscribes to the central government’s observation that sustainable energy consumption requires a reduction in the total energy consumption and a reduction in the consumption of non-renewable energy sources. It will therefore be important for the Government to assess and propose a two-price system for electricity. It could be an incentive to reduce consumption if large consumers have to pay a higher price of energy.» My questions to the representative Molvær Grimstad are: Is there a melting plant industry in the West to be hit? Who will pay higher power prices? Where are the limits going? This may be an incentive to reduce energy consumption, but it will also provide an incentive for the closure of a number of rural jobs in this country. Is this really a policy behind the Christian People's Party? Does the Christian People's Party believe that this is the right way to go in order to reduce energy consumption, and what consequences can it have for the rural workplaces in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e512	I believe that the political discussion will be heated by the fact that we sometimes discuss this with quality of life in relation to increased material consumption. It's not that someone needs more material consumption, but it's important that we look at it, because we focus more and more on owning things instead of how we feel. Sometimes you say you have a lot to live with, but you don't have much to live for. It is important to obtain that value when discussing the consumer message. In fact, I think it's very important that we focus on the material standard of living in the future. Shall we be concerned that it will be a spiral that goes up and up, or shall we be concerned with soothing and that there are great differences in the world between rich and poor countries? We must have that dimension as a cage in the kingdom of Norway, also with us. Then the representative of Greece was in on this with the two-price system and the energy debate. When it comes to alternative energy and the bet on it, which is also a debate, we in the Christian People's Party can think of it as an even stronger bet on it from the Government's side. But when it's up to bringing down energy consumption, and when it's up to having incentives to do so, we're open to considering different measures that can be an instrument for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e519	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e522	The present consumer message is largely descriptive and, to a small extent, action-oriented. The right considers that the type of consumer policy mentioned in the notification is only part of consumer policy. The consumer’s best protection lies in effective competition on the market. Competition may be restricted either by the operators themselves or by the authorities, such as: in the health sector and in the education sector. We therefore see it as the most important task of consumer policy to ensure that both private and public monopolies are abolished, so that consumers have freedom of choice when they are to obtain goods or services. Another important form of protection lies at the level of civil law, where individuals may avail themselves of the courts for the purposes of, inter alia, the Directive. cancellation and replacement. This presupposes inter alia: that the courts do not charge unreasonable legal fees, as they do today. The consumer policies dealt with in the notification are important, but they are primarily relevant where competition is weak and the legal system is not suitable. We are e.g. do not agree when claimed: «The penalties which individual consumers may impose by repurchasing a product are of little importance as a market signal.» In our opinion, this is the most important of all market signals. It is precisely that consumers, through deliberate choices, demonstrate whether a product is so good that they want to buy it again, create developing markets and distinguish good products from bad. In our opinion, the public must not interfere with the individual consumer's choice and wishes. As politicians, it is our job to regulate what should not be allowed, not to try to decide what people should do. The majority of the Committee gives the impression that consumption is a practice in many ways. Consumption shall be replaced by quality of life, which appears to be the parole. The right considers that consumption is essential for growth in society and for job security for the future. The role of the public must be the control and supervision role on behalf of consumers. In its supervisory role, it shall ensure that consumers and society are protected against harmful products and misinformation via advertising. Authorities must ensure that the necessary information on the rights and obligations of consumers and on harmful products flows to consumers. We also need to ensure that there is an appropriate means of dispute resolution that is easily accessible to the individual consumer. One of our most important tasks must be to ensure that competition on the consumer market is sufficient at all times and that the rules of the game are followed. The rules on competition are essential for the creation of functioning markets. The right notes that consumer work is also well-managed by many private actors. Many magazines, newspapers and television programmes address current consumer substances in a very good way. This serves a great deal of the information needs of consumers. This is a good material that sells well. The possibility of getting a case up in e.g. ‘TV 2 helps you’ or a look-up in VG is an important rice behind the rear-view mirror which also contributes significantly to better behaviour by operators operating in the border country or across the line of acceptable and lawful behaviour. In our view, these kinds of unofficial channels are very important in consumer work and are becoming increasingly important. Environmental friendliness is a major competitive advantage. Enterprises offering products that are either demonstrablely environmentally friendly or that are perceived as such by consumers will be market winners in the new millennium. Those who are young today are significantly more concerned with this than previous generations. Getting a stamp that is dangerous to the environment would be very threatening to the existence of a company, and therefore the leaders of the future will not take the risk of getting such a stamp. We believe that developments in this area will take place without public authorities taking active action to reduce people’s consumption. On the right, it would stress that public authorities have a primary responsibility for the availability of welfare services to citizens and for the quality of services. Public responsibility for financing and providing services need not necessarily mean that the public itself must be responsible for their production. The public sector should focus more on the role of ordering different services and more on putting the actual output of services at a competitive disadvantage. It will facilitate better and cheaper services. I record that the Centre Party and SV, with the varying support of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, have embarked on a kind of anti-consumption and anti-globalisation line in the comments on the notification. The right is a supporter of sustainable development. We believe that sustainable development is necessary to allow for sustainable and stable economic growth. The right considers that economic growth is a prerequisite for better living standards and quality of life in all parts of the world. In our opinion, there is no contradiction between better living standards and improved quality of life. To conclude that increased consumption needs to be replaced by improved quality of life is to create contradictions that are not real. We must constantly work for more environmentally friendly consumption. That doesn't mean that you go down in standard of living, but that you act more environmentally soundly. With regard to the proposal for the organisation of consumer apparatus, we are pleased that a large majority reject the directorate model. We point out that the department addresses the question of the future organisation of the public consumer apparatus, based on the setting up of the Rimberg Committee. The Rimberg Committee discussed two main models for the organisation of this device, the independence model and the directorate model. There was no conclusion in the Storing Communication, and one of the main concerns of Stortinget was the connection to further investigation of the directorate model. It is announced that the Government will bring this back to Stortinget as its own case. Now, in many ways, it seems that the Committee is so clear in rejecting the directorate model that it should be abandoned and that one should go further with the starting point that is now in the comments. We also point to the fact that most hearing bodies opposed the proposal for a directorate model, because they thought such a model would weaken the independence of the Consumer Council from the department. So we don't support a further investigation of the directorate model and we're assuming that that ball is now being put to death. On the right, the Government is asking for further work from the Rimberg Committee's independent model with emphasis on the following: a more freer position for the Consumer Council and Consumer Ombudsman to better protect consumers' rights, including in relation to public service providers, modernisation of the governance structure of the Consumer Council to improve communication with the public through a deliberate commitment to media strategy and by making consumer-relevant information easily available on, for example: The Internet improves the framework conditions for the business activities of the Consumer Council, including: through the release of the Consumer Report, the processing time in the Consumer Dispute Committee must be reduced With regard to the chapter on marketing, we have already signalled strong opposition to the majority's proposal to set up a consumer fund financed by an advertising fee. I'm sorry to have to say it: this is a naive proposal. Who do you think has to pay for this? If such a charge is imposed on advertising, consumers will, of course, receive the bill. The advertisement has come to stay. Our task is not to condemn it on a general basis, but to ensure that the laws and regulations in force in this area are respected at all times. Otherwise, I would say that as consumers, most are also concerned with availability. It is regrettable to note that the majority in this room earlier in the period made this availability worse by tightening the opening time law and adopting Brustad-bua. Now we're probably not going to start a new debate on this legislation in this Storting, but I hope and believe that a new expansion will take hold of this and ensure better accessibility both in the public sector, where there are things going on when it comes to spending things on the Internet, open administration, etc., and also when it comes to people's ability to act when they think it's too good. And when the shops want to keep it open, they should be allowed to keep it open. This is old stuff that we've discussed before. But it is nevertheless a little important to mention, in a consumer policy debate, that there are actually quite a number of consumers in this country who are concerned with greater availability and opportunity to take advantage of the time they have to act – as a little counterpart to all this talking about consumption as a udder, about genetically modified food, etc., things that are important, but which I do not think belong in this debate, which is on consumer policy, today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e587	The right is trying to make it appear that the majority of consumption is utilitarian. It's a little strange conclusion after my post, which had as its main point that consumption is power, we have to give consumers the opportunity to use more of the power that's behind it. Thus, consumption will turn to a very positive challenge for us. So right here is trying to present it as if the message should be an anti-globalisation and anti-internationalisation message. I have a little problem understanding where the Right takes it from. In fact, we point out that globalisation and internationalisation have some weaknesses and cause some disadvantages for consumers; they are not to be put under the chair, no matter how pro-globalisation and pro-internationalisation are. The majority, i.e. the centre parties, the Workers' Party and the SV, put forward a strategy to meet the challenges facing consumers. Right does not put any strategy in the option. It could perhaps be helpful to hear if the Right at all has some strategy to give consumers the opportunity to meet some of the challenges that globalisation will bring to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e594	I used large parts of my post to sketch what the Right believes is a strategy, namely that market power and consumer power are two important elements. The fact that the market is allowed to function as much as possible, but then with the authorities as a control body, we believe that the best strategy in terms of consumer opportunities and rights in this country is. When I consider what I feel is a sort of anti-globalization attitude and a fear of it from the outside, it's because large parts of the comments are about food, genetically modified food, it's about replacing living standards with quality of life, etc., things that in themselves are good slogans and slogans, but if one puts this into context and says that there are so many threats associated with this globalisation, should a rather turn around it and say: what has globalisation meant and what does globalisation mean for consumers in Norway? Well, that means they get access to cheaper goods, that means they get access to a larger range of goods -- now I'm not talking about groceries, but I'm talking about the product spectrum in general -- and the free trade and the emergence of global markets that we've seen in recent years is a very positive development, from a consumer point of view. When then everything is packed into a sort of fear of the unknown and of what comes from the outside, it is necessary to point out that this is an attitude that at least cannot join the Right. Our answer is very good, and I went through that in my post: the market should control this as much as possible. So here we are talking about the two-price system for electricity, it's about the advertising fee, etc., etc., put into a consumer notice. I don't think consumers are particularly concerned about it. I think they're busy accessing good and cheap goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e609	The representative of Greece was in his post in very many areas, among others. public sector and weekend peace. I will not go into it further, but only record that he is fully aware that market power and consumer power are what will govern consumer policy in the future. I have here a newspaper called 'Daily Trade', no. 32 for 2000, and I'll bring up with the representative the question of concentration of power on the chain side. In Norway today, we have four chains that account for 99,3 p.m. of trade in Norway. Now we see in the newspapers that you can get the sale of one chain. Here the headline says that you might have from five to ten years to have from four to six chains across Europe. It is globalization in the broad sense, and so Trond Helleland praises it. Does Trond Helleland have any kind of counter-representation against the centralization of power that this represents? We're all consumers, we live all over the country, we're producers. We are all concerned with, for example: the purchasers of these chains must take local account – I believe. Is Trond Helleland thinking in that direction, or is it just cheaper goods? I travel around and look at shops and think there is little diversity and very much standardized setup, with one goal: to get lower prices. I think this is a development that consumers are losing on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e618	It is true that there were many issues in my post, but I stressed that the Right is opposed to public and private monopolies, and that the competition authorities and the competition law we have in Norway must regulate this. I am concerned if we get a development where we have three chains left in Norway that dominate the food market. I am also concerned about the market concentration that is e.g. in the agricultural sector, where the product range as the representative Lahnstein demand is virtually non-existent on milk products, for example, because Tine has an approximate monopoly. I think it is a very good initiative that the Minister of Agriculture has taken, when it comes to trying to expand the range of products, try to bet on local specialities. I find it sad that all local dairies in Norway are laid down, and that one could not then have a development like that in France, where one has hundreds of dairies making local cheese specialities and such things. But before I get all the way into the food dish, I have to say that the chain concentration is a problem. The fact that there will be fewer and fewer chains, both at European and national level, is clearly a challenge, but this must primarily be regulated by the competition law we have. I also believe that consumers have a significant influence. I believe that consumers will more closely demand the type of larger range of products, if one speaks food – several possibilities for different meat qualities, etc. This will push forward, and I hope that the authorities will also help to encourage the development of the type of products that the representative Lahnstein obviously wants. I am not sure if she wants the same tools as I do, but I think we agree on the main objective. Getting a boring and boring dish, no one's happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e625	I want to follow up on this particular line change a little bit, because I don't think the representative of Greece gave any good answer to this with concentration of power. Does the representative of Greece not see – it is perhaps to believe in wonder that he does, but nevertheless I would challenge him – that the kind of globalisation we are talking about is a kind of economic globalisation with more and more power concentrated in the multinational groups, which has one purpose in mind: to subdue the world's consumption? And with this kind of development, we're going to get more concentration in a few chains. The representative of Greece does not see that this requirement for cheaper food and cheaper clothes etc. Do some shady pages mean that it puts producers in a bad mood, including those in developing countries, which means that they have to pay the cheap clothes and the cheap food with their own health? Then the representative of Greece addressed the question of consumer information, indirectly by referring to the Consumer Report. Is it not important for consumers to gain power that they have independent information? Does this not mean that the Consumer Report needs more public funding to enable consumers to obtain free and independent consumer information?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e634	That the Right and SV disagree on the importance of the market and the effects of globalisation is no surprise. One feels almost dedicated to an old seminar on state science basic when one starts discussing the lines that Ågot Valle puts up. The question of SV becomes: what is SV's alternative to globalisation? What is the SV we are going to do to change a development that the representative Valle may think is unfortunate? As far as producers in developing countries are concerned, one of their problems is that access to Western markets has often been blocked, especially in the food sector, and I think it would be a great pleasure in developing countries if they could get rid of their products on our markets. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to follow the old slogan ‘trade not AIDS’ – trade as an important instrument to help developing countries up and down. Regarding the concern of the representative Valle for the Consumer Report, I said in my post that we want to release it more. I believe that also from the Consumer Report is a desire to have greater opportunities, and I expect that any up-to-date editor in the Consumer Report will provide the editorial independence and not create a mix of any advertisements and product reviews. I would like to underline once again that speaking to the individual consumer's case, which both TV 2's "TV 2 helps you" and NRK's "Consumer Inspectors" do, and as VG, the newspaper and other newspapers do when focusing on consumer substances, perhaps is the most important tool we have today to stop unprofessional suppliers and unprofessional manufacturers, etc. It's great that the independent press also puts this in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e645	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e648	As the debate has so far shown, this consumer message is very clear. We can address practically all issues relating to social development. I am pleased with that perspective, while at the same time making the debate a little difficult to deal with. Let me say to the issue of globalisation that no one thinks that we should not be part of the Internet and the technological opportunities that lie there. But at the same time, we need to realize that if this is to benefit humanity, we need to take care of the issues of environmental development, distribution and health. I was going to focus on three things. The first is a follow-up of what I took a line on to Trond Helleland, concentration of power on the chain side. I think it's gone far enough now. I think it is also important in this area that we ensure Norwegian-based ownership, and if possible, we should put some brakes on the development of large European and global chains. Norway is a small country, and the Nordic region is a small market. We're small, and then we have to make sure to spread power. The second theme I was going to say a little bit about is food and food security. As the vote and the proposals show, we have clearly stressed the precautionary principle from the centre party here. We want a very restrictive policy to ensure people in Norway healthy and good food. This applies, for example: genetics, it's about plant protection residues – we've talked a little about food make-up in the past – and it's also about an offensive in relation to organic food. I guess we've also looked into antibiotic residues in our comments. I think this is a very important area. In addition – so I can get some line in the buy-in – I believe that we, as politicians in Norway, should also ensure Norwegian food preparedness. There hasn't been much talk lately, but it's important to stress that we need to have food production, and that we also need to secure soil protection in Norway for our future. Finally, I would like to say a little about children and young people and advertising. Yesterday I was at the Daily Suppliers' Association Conference in Sandefjord, and there were among other things. the theme of global developments in online e-business and fire-building, i.e. online branding. The impression I'm left with is that there's a lot going on here, and that the big international multinational groups are busy using the Internet to get direct contact with customers, usually down to 14 years, and create a profile so that they can get information about individuals by looking at who's been shopping online so far. These are quite frightening perspectives. Now I'm not easily startled – so the right should let go of it in a line, I'm not scared – but I think this is the reason to look a little closer. Therefore, I am pleased that in the setting on pages 23 and 24 we have actually said something about the government should ensure that there is an opportunity to reserve itself against this use of names and addresses in an appropriate way. I'd like to reinforce it. I think it's very important that you come here to prevent a development that I think most of us will be very critical of. Then I will conclude with a statement in the Newspaper from 10 September this autumn. The title is ‘The Rolling Man’ and the article is based on an investigation that shows that three out of four young girls report shopping as their main interest. Unlike the shopping man, I want a social development that contributes to the creation of the authoritative man, who can take part in the design of a society, with room for all, and where we secure future, based on both fair distribution, environment and human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e663	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e666	It may seem that the Centre Party wants a greater share of organic products on the market. This is not the Progress Party against. A large range of goods is a good thing for everyone. It also turns out that people are willing to pay, for example. 10 pst. more for organic products. But then it turns out that these goods have a significantly higher price. Does the Central Party have an answer as to how to reduce prices and, where appropriate, where this subsidisation is to be taken from? The party assumes that this should not affect those who wish to purchase so-called ordinary goods, by increasing them in price, or by other charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e673	It is right, as the representative points out, that we are concerned about organic food, and that organic product producers should have access to the market, as it is called, and sell their products. It is in fact in the comments of the Centre Party and the SV and also in a proposal related to it, where it states: ‘We ask the Government to ensure that all organic food production must be sold and marketed as organic products to consumers.’ We do not intend to go further than to say that this means that we have to make the goods available, and that it is also a matter for the authorities to address questions about how to market these goods in a better and more efficient way. Otherwise, I forgot in my post to address the proposals that have not been taken up and on which the Centre Party is involved. That is the proposal No. 5, 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e685	Anne Enger Lahnstein has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e691	Shopping aids, we can read several places. Modern Western man buys identity. You're who you are, based on what brand clothes you wear, and what shops you shop in. NOK 40 billion is used for advertising and marketing every year. The advertising is getting an increasingly aggressive expression, it invades us in new areas, and more and more areas of life are being converted into goods that can be sold. And someone makes money on it – a lot of money. The aggressive advertising pressure against children and young people is increasing, resulting in results. I have also read the article in the newspaper, which shows that three out of four young girls report shopping as their main interest. It's probably fun shopping, but what happens when it becomes a life content? That's then miles from the creative, participating human being we want to be with and build under. Because children and young people are exposed to a lot of advertising in many areas, it is important that at least the school becomes an advertisement-free area. That's why we think it should ring some bells when large companies like Coca-Cola are admitted to the schools under the pretext that there is education, while the purpose is crystal clear, I think, namely that the company wants to profile the product and increase sales. The Centre and the SV believe that the Government must go thoroughly through schemes where large companies use the school’s lack of resources to profile their own product under the provision of education, precisely to reduce the advertising effect of such measures. We have support from the Children's Ombudsman. That's why I'm somewhat surprised, to say it mildly, that the Workers' Party could not be involved in this comment. SV is pleased that the message exists, and I would like to remind you that it is the result of an initiative that Jorunn Hageler from SV took in the previous period. In a consumer policy to support sustainable consumption, the environment and distribution, both here and internationally, must be an important basis. The rich Norway cannot continue a development in which we graph more and more of the earth's resources for private consumption. That is why this message is important, and not least it is important how we further develop consumer policy. That is why I want more initiatives and debates like this. It's about future and later generations – nothing less. SV will work hard to strengthen and increase the space for action of the political consumer in Norway. Through active political consumption, some of the political governance of the market can be recovered. The political consumer wants to influence what is sold, both through what you can buy in the store and through demands for political regulation. By actively selecting organically produced products, which are not genetically engineered, which are not produced by child workers, and products from fair trade, political consumers have power. Well-organised consumers can change policies and force maritime multinational companies to change their course. In many countries, consumer organisations are at the forefront of the fight against international institutions and structures, such as: The WTO, which promotes free trade and the power of multinational companies. In order to promote political consumption in Norway, SV will support the organisation of consumers in powerful consumer organisations, and we will strengthen the consumer apparatus. We want consumer information to be expanded and renewed, and we want the independent consumer information to be seen as a consumer policy instrument and not as an income-intensive measure. Above all, SV will work for all measures that provide people with safe food. The impact now stands if more food preparations and genetics are to be allowed. A SIFO study shows that 89 pst. of the population want to avoid gene food. To allow the sale of genetic food is to gamble with our health and with nature. Here it's important to be the leader of the var. In fact, no one today can guarantee that genetics cannot have negative effects on health and nature. I see it as a majority of a moratorium, and I want a clear signal from the Government that it perceives it the same way. SV, together with the centre parties or alone, has a number of proposals that address measures that can provide safe food and strengthen consumer information, and thus also consumer power. I'm very curious about how the Government looks at these proposals. I would like to address the proposals SV is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e710	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e713	There have been major changes in consumption and consumption patterns since the previous big business report on this topic was addressed. Therefore, a new review is most timely. Consumption develops in an interaction between individuals and businesses, consumption has become an important part of our communication with the outside world. Both public and private consumption has a large and extensive impact on both distribution, resource use, pollution problems, waste problems, interest rates, social divisions, identity and economic policies. It is therefore important to have a well-functioning consumer policy. The left considers that the Communication provides a good overview of the trends and challenges that consumer policy will face in time. This is particularly true in relation to the need for a more sustainable consumption pattern, the internationalisation of key consumer markets and the need for professional consumer representatives in decision-making processes such as those markets. The left is satisfied that a political responsibility for sustainable consumption is established, so that not all responsibility is left to the individual in the consumer role. The policy challenge lies in stimulating consumers to choose the lowest possible consumption of the environment. One must make visible and make aware of the consequences of nature, environment and distribution of different consumer choices. Furthermore, it is important that consumers become aware that they can also choose non-use as a strategy. The left is satisfied with the main device on the message. However, we lack a more detailed discussion of the role of public and independent consumer information. Moreover, it may be necessary for the Storting to discuss more collectively the consumer policy considerations of deregulation and increased business profitability requirements in the supply of necessity services such as electricity, telecommunications and postal services. There is also a need for closer discussion of the concept of ‘availability’ in both a physical, economic and temporal sense. The left supports the majority of those who stress that the health effects of foods containing genetically modified ingredients need to be monitored. Where necessary to achieve this, the introduction of a moratorium on such products must be considered. A temporary ban on such products should also be considered. Some 770,000 people in Norway are disabled. Many of them can take little part in cultural and recreational activities. They are excluded from a variety of consumer arenas. This is due, inter alia, to: failure to organise and provide transport services. The Consumer Council points out that this exclusion and discrimination against people with disabilities such as consumers are discriminatory. The legal protection of this consumer group must be given greater attention and should be a main theme for the follow-up to the notification. The establishment of public service offices is an old left-wing case, and it is positive that the progress of this work is so good. They will be of great importance to all of us, but they may primarily improve the availability of services for people with disabilities and in this way be an important contribution. The left considers that consumer councils should be organised in such a way as to give a strong stand-alone entity and a strong state consumer policy. The Consumer Ombudsman must be retained as a free supervisory body. The organisation must ensure broad contact with consumers. The tasks of the Regional Competition Authority may in some cases be consistent with those of the Consumer Council. It is of great importance that the tasks are carried out, preferably in cooperation with the consumer offices in the counties. These offices are already under pressure and need to be strengthened in a future organisation. The Left agrees that the reorganisation of consumer work is promoted as a matter of its own for the Storting. The left is not on the committee and thus has not been given the opportunity to participate and influence the vote. I just want to sign out one of the proposals mentioned there, and it goes on the advertising tax. The Left, like the Right Party and the Advance Party, is in line with the fact that we do not want that proposal to be further worked on, because we believe it will be both practical and otherwise a poor solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e739	It is positive that the Stortinget should put consumer policy on the agenda by examining this communication. Both the call for proposals and the committee setting reflect the relationship between consumption, consumer situation and consumer policy and most national policies and international challenges and globalisation. This underlines the importance of a broad and comprehensive discussion in Stortinget, based on a comprehensive monitoring report. Consumers are facing an ever-changing market driven by a new technology that offers enormous potential. Online commerce allows us to act on a frontierless global market, both in terms of products and information. Networking and other transactions via new technologies are currently a limited part of Norwegian consumers’ purchases and information, and are likely to do so for a long time to come. Consumer policy must take account of the new developments, but must at the same time take account of the more traditional forms of information and marketing that are constantly affecting the everyday lives of consumers. This may be one of the reasons why consumer policy, as I experience it, has become less controversial. The assertions of guardian mentality, and in particular of a curious one, I mean a little to the ground when, in general, there are common positions in Europe on the regulation of the relationship between consumers and the other market actors. But I also believe other issues and developments, such as the commercialisation of everyday life, concentration and increased market power on the provider side, make the need for a modern consumer policy adapted to the current market economy system. It requires a number of key key elements to be in place: a powerful consumer stakeholder organisation as corrective and counter-productive in the market, an appropriate regulatory framework, effective supervisory bodies and dispute resolution systems. It may not be that only ‘TV 2 will help you’ and ‘the Consumer Inspectors’ will talk about consumers’ interests and matters. I know – and I share the view of the representative of Greece – that they are doing an excellent job, but this cannot be enough. When we use the word ‘regulation’, it is important to stress that there is no regulation in a planning economic sense. Consumer rights legislation is more about rules of play, clear principles of contractual terms and the rights and obligations of purchasers and sellers. All parties are served by such rules in order to have an overview and a clear basis for dealing with millions of transactions each day in a market. There are some essential requirements for information and marketing in order to meet one of the key market economy assumptions about informed consumers. An unbridled flood of biased advertising can rather work in the opposite direction. Nor can there be any disagreement that the issue of safety of life and health cannot be left to market principles of testing and failure, although we may have discussions about when direct requirements for design and use of products need to be resolved and when labelling and other information requirements are sufficient. However, market developments are contributing in several areas to new issues of choice for future consumer policy, and I believe that we need to take this into consideration politically. We need to see consumer, business and competition policies in context to a greater extent than we've been used to. The consumer role in the future must become much more offensive to the market. We must aim at a market economy that takes sufficient account of both the environment and users. At the same time, business should take greater responsibility for safeguarding consumer interests. A positive attitude towards consumer interests should be able to represent a competitive advantage for traders, rather than a handicap or a minus. It is important and right that the Communication focuses on the overall environmental, distribution and ethics challenges, including in a consumer policy context. Consumption needs to develop in the longer term within the framework of sustainable and equitable development. There's still reason to remember that today's 20 pst. of the richest part of the world's population for 86 pst. Of the total expenditure on private consumption, while the poor part of the world, 20 p.m., has as little as 1.3 p.m. The use of resources cannot continue to increase without undermining the very foundations of growth, namely nature. We have to take that inwards. We need to develop a policy that reduces resource consumption, while at the same time making people feel that quality of life is increasing. Here I share the vision of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad. For consumer policy in a more traditional sense, the main challenge will be to stimulate consumers to make choices and consumption patterns that are least polluting to the environment. This can be done through awareness-raising and awareness-raising information, for example through school education and direct information to consumers in buying situations, such as: through a positive eco-label. Eco-labelling is an example of consumers being able to exercise power through the signals that market demand represents. We've seen different examples of what a person can call political or ethical conscious consumption. For many, it is important to know that the products they buy are produced with respect for human rights, labour rights, animal welfare and without child labour. The government takes a positive view and will contribute to an increase in individual and collective consumption awareness. A prerequisite for acting as a political consumer is that such information is somehow put in place. Several countries are now working on developing consumer information systems on such ethical issues. I want to refer to the LO and the Church's Emergency Aid, which, in cooperation with the large food chains, has started work on ethical consumer information. Several Norwegian organisations wish to use, inter alia: The Internet to promote information on ethical aspects of products and producers. The development of the information society is not least noticeable in terms of marketing and consumer information. In addition to the explosive growth in the amount of information, in the media and in forms of influence, there is a tendency for different types of information to merge and it is difficult to know what is what. The Government has proposed a legalisation of the principle that marketing should appear as marketing, so that the commercial message should not be confused with editorial material. It is important for us to secure the private sphere from excessive commercial influence. Consumers' ability to opt out of unsolicited advertising must be a central principle. In the proposal for amendments to the Marketing Act, submitted to the Stortinget in June, the Government has proposed that consumers should consent before being advertised by electronic mail, fax or text messages to mobile phones. Backgrounds include: in that polls show massive resistance to telephone sales, we have sent a proposal to consult to introduce the same rule for this form of sale. Over 60 statements have come in, and I will come back to our summary and conclusion when it is ready. Several of the speakers have been in on children. Children have become an important target group in the business strategy for branding. To turn the old phrase a little bit, we can say: it can't be broken early enough, the one that the good consumer is going to be. Although advertising directed at children has occurred for a long time, the massive and conscious multimedia press is new, as Anne Enger Lahnstein also gave a picture in his post. Children and young people are challenged in almost all areas. And the pressure, unfortunately, just seems to increase. Perhaps the most provocative thing is when strategic business interests play cynically on the identity and self-esteem of children and young people, or a lack of them. And we cannot let – as parents, as politicians and as members of society – decide on this development and what it brings with it on value issues and political issues. It becomes too defensive to lay low for the commercial interests in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e770	Governments in their contributions focused a lot on the new technology and the development of online commerce. She also mentioned the changes to the marketing law that have now been proposed in relation to this by e-mail, fax, etc. The Council of State said early in its intervention that this would be common European regulations because online commerce does not know national borders, at least not the websites. The Council of State mentioned this with amendments to the Marketing Act, and the problem is that the Government proposes to go beyond European legislation in some areas of e-commerce. What will be the consequences of this for the development of a modern information technology-based business in Norway, if stricter rules are applied here than in other parts of Europe? Everyone knows that it is possible to set up a website on a Pacific island and operate from there. It also makes it a global challenge to provide common rules in this area. So my question is: does the Council of State want Norway to regulate more stringently in this area than the EU – despite all the EU countries we have to deal with in the first place – and what impact will it have on the development of Norwegian network trade? In addition, we should not mix editorial material and advertising, which the Council of State was concerned with. And then it's very surprising to me that there are proposed legislative changes that de facto will prohibit the newspapers from entering so-called intricacies into their newspapers, as for large newspapers, such as, among other things. The evening post and address paper, will lead to the loss of 20-30 pst. of the revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e777	It is absolutely right that the Government has put forward concrete proposals. Of course, we are committed to following the common rules of the EU system. At the same time, it is right to say that the EU system actually lays down some minimum provisions which in some ways do not prevent national Parliaments from choosing to go further if they consider it appropriate at any point. And in this area, I believe that we need to assess whether we should not be able to go any further from the point of view of consumer policy. As I said in my post, I will come back to it when we have had a final summary of the consultation round, and present it to the Storting in a suitable way. But there is no doubt that there will be political disagreement here. I note the touching attention of the representative Trond Helleland, who suddenly shows Norwegian newspapers, and we will also take this into account in future debates. There is no doubt that the prohibition and imposition – if we were to choose it – could have consequences for a part of Norwegian business. But I think we have to realize one thing, and that is that we're going to be able to have consumer power and take control of the strong market forces we see, we politicians also have to be open to the fact that we have to use the law to regulate some of the situations that we're now seeing evolve and that Norwegian consumers don't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e784	Like the representative Alstad, the Council of State was involved in this with the labelling of goods in order to safeguard the interests of consumers. We all agree that we need a better developed branding system, and that the goods are marked in a way that makes it understood. I have to say that sometimes I see the marking can be quite incomprehensible, with various codes. I don't know if the Consumer Minister intends to go through the labelling scheme in order to make it more accessible, but I think you should also have other instruments in some areas, and I think that maybe the Council of State also meant to say in its contribution. In all debates about the market and the things we're talking about now, it ends up being the consumer who's going to be in the center. Actually, I think that sometimes seems like a mouth hole, because there are people who make a lot of money on the so-called consumers, and that's all of us. The advertisement is perhaps where we see it best, and an attention attached to the advertising is therefore important, and that we can also get an assessment of a fee for advertising. The last thing I wanted to ask the Council of State is in connection with e-commerce, which I was in on in my post, asking the Government to assess whether it is possible to reserve itself against using the name and address. I wonder if it is important to also involve the Data Protection Agency in the development of the strategies of multinational groups, or at least in the use of personal data in our country, because, as I see it, it is quite a massive scheme to secure Internet portals, etc., where you go straight into contact with children and young people to sell more products.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e793	I share the views of the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein regarding eco-labelling and general labelling for consumers. It is clear that this labelling shall have an effect, it must be made in such a way that consumers become aware and aware of it. I have just come from Iceland, where I was in a grocery store and saw how the eco-label there was used very diligently with large posters, so that as a consumer you became very aware that you actually have a choice by looking after it, and can then, as a consumer, use the power you have in your own purchases – so I will take that with me in my further work. As far as e-commerce is concerned, I also agree that we need to involve the Data Protection Authority strongly, and we need to look at the privacy in it and how we register information, so it will also be closely followed up. I did not come to the advertising fee in my post – I was going to say a little about it too – but I am happy to say something about it now. In the case of a advertising fee of 1 pst., I believe the government should assess it. I see both positive and negative aspects of it, but it would be unwise not to take a thorough assessment of such a charge. There is no doubt that there are quite a number of millions of Norwegian consumers here, so I mean absolutely that we have to look at it. I must also be allowed to send a little greeting back to the Right and Trond Helleland, who, when he spoke about advertising fees, was very busy with the consumers and that it was those who had to pay. But I have to say that if the Right had been equally concerned with the cost of advertising to consumers today, the Right should have put forward a proposal that would have just limited the advertising possibilities, so that we got the price of the products down. Here I believe that we see very well the differences between the right and left sides of the policy, and that is what I think we have been shown in an excellent way through the contributions of Greece.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e802	I must first commend the Council of State for a very good article, in which she addressed many questions and assessments that we share in SV. But then I want to challenge the Council of State on how she views the development of advertising, how it is used in school today. Does the Council support a proposal for an advertisement-free school? She was very concerned about the pressure on children and young people. Then we fully agree that what we put in, has a lot to say for our health, and then I will challenge her on the food make-up directives. Is not the Council of State concerned about a policy that allows more nitrite and nitrate, which is – no one can turn away – carcinogenic? Is she concerned that if we accept the food make-up directives, it is free to add more azo dyes, which are allergenic? It must be a cross-section of mind that the Consumer Council has warned against these directives. If we are engaged in international cooperation that improves consumer rights, the fact that Norway uses the safeguard clause, which we can use on this issue, would also strengthen consumer rights downwards in Europe. Because it is that there are very large counter-representations and great disgust also among consumers down in Europe against these directives, and also against the childcare directive, which we are going to have later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e813	First of all, what's going on in advertising, and especially advertising in school. The Ministry of Children and Family reduced a sample last year, called the Nyborg Committee, to investigate measures to reduce the commercial pressure on children and young people in this country. The selection shall present its position during the year, and after that, of course, the Government will present concrete proposals for the follow-up to the sample. There is no doubt that one of the themes is precisely how to reduce the advertising impact on children and young people. I have also noticed that a study presented by the Nyborg Committee in September on parents’ attitudes to the theme indicates a very broad dissension about, for example, the issue. a ban on advertising aimed at children. If it were to be the line, it would say that it also had to be a ban on advertising in school. I see that there may be problems in stopping all advertising aimed at children and young people in the society we have, with increasing influence and flow of information via various TV channels, but I will come back with concrete proposals when we have discussed the position of the Nyborg Committee. But this will be one of the big and important consumer policy issues next year, as I see it. Then the representative Ågot Valle was also concerned with clean and safe food. Now, it is probably the case that the Storting will be dealt with on its own proposal on these issues in November, and there are two other government councils responsible for it. Now we are so lucky that the Minister of Agriculture is also present in this consumer debate today, so he can give some more specific answers to that. But I want to say one thing, that this government is concerned that we are going to have clean and safe food here in the country, and that we are going to follow up our international obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e823	Since the Council of State was so kind to give me a couple of stitches in the answer to Anne Enger Lahnstein, I thought it was natural to follow up with a new line. The councils were surprised that the right had suddenly received a touching care for the newspapers. The right has a touching care for newspapers that earn their own money and stand on their own legs. Independent, free press, of course, we are followers of, and we want the Norwegian people to read even more newspapers than today. We had a hearing in the committee at the latest yesterday, where we included: currently themed ‘injection’. It turned out that e.g. The address paper, a newspaper that the Minister of Agriculture is certainly concerned about should have good terms, has 20 pst. of its income from so-called deposits. What the Workers' Party and the Government really add is to take away much of their income from the newspapers. And – I kept saying – with the developments we've seen in the press support in recent years, I think it's getting pretty little to distribute on those newspapers that then lose so much revenue that they become dependent on press support. I would strongly warn against that proposal. I hope that when we deal with it, the committee will reject it. Then the Council of State goes further in relation to the advertising fee. I thought it might have been a mistake that it had come in as a majority comment, but the Council of State will actually consider this. That assessment I assume will probably end with that there will be no proposal. I think there will be so many practical constraints, so many assessments that have to be made, that it is still the consumer who has to pay to the seventh and last. Then a recommendation came back to the Right to make suggestions that limit advertising. Yes, then I have to interpret it so that the Council of State actually wants to make restrictions now, that it is the Labour Party's policy to restrict the possibility of advertising here in the country. Norwegian newspapers have 70 pst. of its income from advertising and 30 pst. from the sale of the newspapers. How does the Council of State think this turns out if the Council of State is now going to go into some kind of restriction on the scope of advertising? I think we'll get a debate that'll get Brustad-bua to remind you of a little duckling in relation to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e836	I thought I made it clear in my post that the government has sent a proposal to the hearing, and we have received approximately. 60 hearing opinions. So we're going to go in and conclude what we're doing with the newspapers. It is quite right that the representative Trond Helleland points out that some newspapers will have problems with it. But it's not right, as Trond Helleland here says, that the government has concluded. Just assuming that there were different signals about this, we found it appropriate to send this out at a new and thorough hearing. With regard to the advertising fee, I think it would be very arrogant for the Government not to go a round to assess the advertising fee based on what is in the cancellation. I have to say that I feel very humble about the will shown by some parties in Stortinget regarding advertising fees, and will of course investigate it. But as I said, there's no doubt that it will also have negative sides, and I realize that today. But I think it is right that we should, among other things, draws exchangers on the experience that has been gained in Sweden, which has had this for many years, before we finally conclude. Then the representative of Greece tried to put the question back to me in a way, if we wanted to limit the advertising. What I tried to do in my reply to Anne Enger Lahnstein was just to illustrate the consequences of Trond Helleland's own arguments in relation to his being concerned that there was one who got the increased costs – and it's not the strong market groups that we as consumers have to deal with, but it's the individual consumer. And if Trond Helleland was really concerned about consumers and not about the market interests, he might consider making concrete measures and using the authority that this hall has to use the law, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e847	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e850	It is more than 20 years since the previous overall consumer message was submitted to Stortinget. The fact that there have been major changes that require a new message will hardly be denied. St.meld. No 40 for 1998-99, which is the subject of treatment, is a good basis for a more forward-looking consumer policy. Public authorities have many consumer policy instruments. This applies, inter alia, to: regulatory regulation of marketing, laws regulating the purchase and conclusion of contracts, competition law and consumer representatives, in order to mention something. And there is no doubt that consumer rights and a well-functioning competitive market are key elements of a comprehensive consumer policy. However, there is a central point in the Communication that future-oriented consumer policy must have a perspective beyond that. For consumer policy, like many other parts of the policy, is also about human vision. In an increasingly commercialised society, it is important to hold on to the fact that man is more than a consumer, and that there is a wider perspective underlying political governance. Man has social and spiritual needs as well as material ones. And a society that is good to live in requires more qualities than a well-functioning market. Sustainable development and consumer policy are two concepts inextricably linked. And I think it's surprising that someone in the year 2000 will at all question that environmental challenges also have to shape consumer policy. The threat of climate change, over-exploitation, dispersion and population growth poses new challenges for both Norway and the world community over time. This can be illustrated by a simple example. If we divide the world's grain area by the population of the world, we find this: a person born in the 1990s has almost half of the grain area available to a person born in 1950. The example illustrates that there are rapid changes in living conditions that confront new generations of people with major challenges. In the view of the Christian People's Party, this must, of course, have a bearing on our policies in many areas, not least in terms of consumption and consumer policy. And precisely because we have such major challenges, it is so important that the communication addresses the need for a value perspective in consumer policy. It is too simple to argue that consumer policy is about consumers' interests, which is then only to have a rich supply of many and cheap goods. It is easy to record that there is disagreement in the Chamber here about what is covered by the concept of consumer policy. In the light of the debate, it is possible to establish that advertising and marketing are legitimate instruments and that they have their natural place in a modern society. But it is also true that consumers have a right and a desire to protect themselves against offers and commercially motivated enquiries at almost all times and anywhere. It is not least important in relation to the relationship with children and young people, who do not have the same ability to handle that type of enquiry and to critical assessment, and do not have the same basis for experience. I would actually assume that the Right agrees, although the elimination of speaking time in this debate does not indicate that one is particularly concerned about those issues. With regard to the organisation of consumer apparatus, the Christian People's Party has joined in to comments that underline the importance of the review of administrative tasks. We stress that the Consumer Ombudsman should continue to be guaranteed independence and should continue to act as an independent body. There are several key issues related to the organisation of the consumer benefit. The Christian People's Party, together with the rest of the Committee, therefore assumes that any reorganisation will be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e867	Through Stortingen's treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 1998-1999 on consumer policy, food and agricultural policy has also been put into a broad consumer policy context. This important reorientation of food and agricultural policy has been followed up by the Stortingen treatment of the agricultural notification earlier this year. The focus is on two main tasks: firstly, to ensure food safety, and secondly, to facilitate a varied supply of good quality food at acceptable prices. Consumers shall be guaranteed a healthy food and a fair supply of food. Food shall also be safe and produced in an ethically sound and environmentally and socially sustainable manner. The legislation relating to the production of food must, in relation to the whole value chain, reflect public health considerations and take sufficient account of consumer preferences in addition to health quality. This also applies to foods containing genetically modified products. The supervision of ‘from soil and fjord to table’ must be professional and have high levels of confidence in the population. Infectious and extraneous agents may be administered throughout the food chain ‘from soil and fjord to table’. The authorities must take into account the good infectiveness situation we have today and aim to maintain it even if international trade in food is increasing. For the quality of the food as a final product, control of the use of sprays in plant production, veterinary medicinal products and animal diseases may be very important. In particular, the Committee mentions the need to work actively to keep pesticide residues and other foreign agents at a low level in fruit and vegetables. State food surveillance carries out annual monitoring of this. This monitoring is part of the residue programme covering all foodstuffs. Measures involving the primary stage are also important. Substantial resources are now being allocated to the evaluation of the environmental and health effects of plant protection products, in the context of authorisation. The results of this evaluation will have an impact on the conditions of use of the funds. Furthermore, from 1997 a mandatory authorisation system was introduced for those using plant protection products. In recent years, there has also been a significant improvement in the traceability of pesticide residues in the products to the grower. Thus, the causes of findings can be identified and followed up by improvements in cultivation practices, or criminal responses in cases of breaches of conditions of use. Authorities must also facilitate innovation, conversion and competition in the agricultural sector, the food industry and trade in goods in a way that reflects market preferences. A varied supply of goods to consumers, with good quality at an acceptable price, shall be provided. Consumers want a more varied supply of food to increase, and it is an important challenge to ensure that consumers have a wider range of products. Increased access to organic products is an important part of this work. From 2001 onwards, a specific value creation programme for Norwegian agriculture will be launched, which aims to ensure a wider range of food products for consumers. There are clear consumer interests linked to price levels and greater emphasis on consumer interests also means working at a lower price level. In order to ensure both a product range well adapted to consumer concerns and lower food prices, authorities must contribute to ensuring the proper functioning of markets. Furthermore, it is a task for the authorities to document and monitor price developments at different stages of the value chain right up to the consumer. ‘Action plan for consumer orientation of food and agricultural policies’ will specify and elaborate consumer orientation in the fields of communication and information, consumer representation, consumer correction of the supervisory system, research and policy development. Transparency and good communication on the risk aspects of food are essential to enable consumers to have confidence in the safety of food. There must be clear guidelines for the organisation and conduct of risk analyses, ensuring transparency and consumer influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e888	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e891	The Minister of Agriculture said that health food is important, and I agree with the Council of State. He also said that it is important to have a varied offer with a wide range of products. I also agree with the Minister for Agriculture. Then he shows you that you're going to have a value creation program in agriculture. But does the Minister of Agriculture not see the need to ensure greater scope and more products, greater flexibility and greater choice for consumers, and to ensure greater freedom and opportunities for producers to produce new goods in the agricultural sector? Does the Minister of Agriculture not soon realize that it is also necessary to abolish the regulations on which producers are largely bound, and rather to allow agricultural policy to be guided more by the entrepreneurship model, precisely to ensure that consumers can obtain more agricultural products cheaper than is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e900	What the representative Eriksson is addressing here is becoming a classic debate between the Labour Party and the Progress Party on what to use agricultural policy for – whether agricultural policy should have more objectives than just producing food. My assessment of what Eriksson here is saying is that we have an agricultural sector all over the country, in all the regions, perhaps the most exciting starting point for producing a variety of new products. Some of it characterises a food country such as the United Kingdom. France is, of course, just having an agricultural sector with a multifunctional role, where agricultural policy is also used as an instrument in rural policy. This leads to food production throughout France, so that regional opportunities can be found in areas such as the Pyrenees, Brest and Brittany. The impact of the Advance Party's policy in this area would be the true opposite of what Eriksson wants. We would have an industrialised agriculture that would have concentrated its entire business in a few areas of the best agricultural areas in the whole country, which would in no way have helped to produce new and exciting products, which we now see a certain tendency around the country. I think there is an important link between having a managed agricultural policy and stimulating greater diversity, rather than industrialising agricultural policy and allowing world market prices to impact on Norway, which will then be the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e909	After hearing the Minister of Agriculture now, I have to say that I am looking forward to innovation programmes and diversity and agricultural production throughout the country. In addition to what he said here, I hope that the things that we think are important, such as social conditions, cultural landscapes and, of course, incomes for farmers and producers, can also be included in the assessment. In his speech, the Minister for Agriculture was very concerned that the health of food in Norway should be trusted. In my reply to Alstad instead, I addressed what happened in connection with the Food Mining Directive, which created uncertainty. I think perhaps the Minister of Agriculture is tired of asking questions about it, and will show that this comes up in a debate in the Stortinget later. However, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the impression – and this is reported by the Nations on 5 October and 10 October – was that the four major food chains, Coop Norway, the Hakon group, the Reitan group and the Norwegian group, had agreed ‘to avoid food with nitrite, nitrate, the sweetener cyclamate, and eleven azo dyes’, and that therefore it was almost produced as if the EEA Food Make-up Directive was not a problem. So the reactions came. Also project manager in the Consumer Council Stine Wohl Sem expresses itself very critical of the situation that arises. Her advice is that if this is important, I should make sure that we still have ‘a code that is in line with the recommendations of the State Food Authority and the Ministry of Social and Health’. – It is therefore the Consumer Council and the Project Manager who is responsible for this. I would again challenge a representative from the government party and the agricultural councils to say what Jagland actually meant to express, and how this can be clarified for people in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e922	I understand, of course, that the representative Lahnstein addresses these questions – these are important questions for many reasons. At the same time, I have to ask for an understanding that the situation now is that the government is continuing to work with this whole case complex with a view to presenting a proposition to the Stortinget with at least the currently planned date 17 November of this year. The proposition discusses a number of issues very carefully, and it will also address the issues raised here by Lahnstein. In such a situation, it will, of course, be impossible for both the Minister of Agriculture and other ministers — present and not present — to be able to go into detail on the conditions that will be thoroughly affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e929	I wonder at the answer given by the Minister of Agriculture now. One should hope that the Government will present an open-minded proposition, and that the conclusions are not drawn in advance, that one listens to the real advice that comes from the Consumer Council. But that's not what I was going to do. I want to hear how the government assesses a moratorium on genetically modified food, for which there is at least a majority. American scientists warn against the introduction of gene food. Two years ago, there was a professor and researcher named Arpad Pusztai, who presented the results of an experiment with rats that had been genetically engineered potatoes over a period of time. The experiment showed that the heart, brain, kidneys and liver of rats had begun to shrink, and that they had clear indications of the collapse of the immune system. This is serious. His research has been confirmed by other researchers around the world. He has also received a prize in India – the Gandhi Award – because of this honest research. There is reason why this question really needs to be taken seriously. I would like to hear a little bit about how the Government assesses the majority opinion that is actually in this message, and about whether it is time to approve genetically modified products for which there is an application, before the Government has assessed the concerns in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e941	First of all, I just want to say to the representative Valle that it is always possible to express hope for the government's future conclusions. However, the conclusion will be reached on 17 November, as planned. With regard to the comment that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have on a possible moratorium in relation to GMOs, it is important to stress that the report of the Publicly Lowered Committee of Experts – the Walløe Committee – which has assessed the health consequences of the use of genetically modified foods was handed over in the form of a NOU to Minister of Health Tore Tønne on 11 October this year. The background to the election of the Walloon Committee was that the Government of Bondevik wanted to provide the knowledge base that exists today with regard to the health consequences of the use of genetically modified food and food ingredients, before the Government takes any decision as to whether this novel food regulation is to be implemented in Norway. The Novel foods Regulation is EEA-relevant and regulates the authorisation and labelling of genetically modified food and new food in the EU. In addition, the Government wishes to assess the use of the precautionary principle in relation to genetically modified foods, including the question of moratorium in such a context. The selection has been highly professionally composed, representing the various professional approaches that are desirable to create the broadest possible professional foundation. The point is, then, that this investigation will provide a good basis for decision-making in relation to how Norway should deal with the implementation of the Novel Foods Regulation in particular and a possible moratorium in general. So we've been waiting for this investigation from the Walloon Committee. That was quite reasonable to do to get the professional decision-making basis. That's what we've been given, and on that basis we're going to have to solve the question of a moratorium quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e958	My question also concerns the so-called Walløe Committee, which has just delivered its opinion on the health consequences of genetically modified foods. I would like to ask the Council of State how he assesses the further procedure for this. One would like to get the impression that this sample believes there are relatively small dangers with genetically modified food. However, if one reads the press release from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health more closely, the sample is divided in terms of, among other things. the view on whether the health risk is high enough to justify the use of the precautionary principle to prevent genetically modified food placed on the market until further evidence is available. And half of the sample believes that the health risk associated with antibiotic-resistant genes in food plants is small, but not insignificant. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture how he views the further steps in this process. Will the Council of State be in favour of further investigation into the health risks associated with two specific issues: antibiotic resistance development and allergy, which may occur if a user uses genetically modified plants, such as: knows that someone who is allergic to fish eats a tomato that he thinks is a tomato, but also has fish genes?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e967	As I said in my previous reply, the report was submitted to the Minister of Health only a few days ago, on 11 October. I think that so far no conclusions have been drawn on how it should be treated further. What I think is important to emphasise is that it was not without reason that the Bondevik government wanted to produce this report. It is a very important area for the investigation and there is every reason to take the whole problem area very seriously. I think it will also be important for the Government to look at how we can follow up the investigation in such a way that we can also involve the Storting in an active debate on the challenges associated with the GMO.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e974	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The speakers who take the floor below shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e979	Today, every individual consumer has to raise a case in order to clarify his claim, sail if there are many with the same problem. That is why we are very pleased that the Committee now assumes that the Government will follow up on consumer access to group applications. I have experienced the sea on my body how difficult it can be when there are many consumers who have the same problem. 15 years ago, I discovered in our house that the tablecloth rotted, and after a lot of media attention I received enquiries from all over the country and organized the consumers. We were 700 who wanted to go to court. The consumer office in Rogaland made a huge effort, and it had 3,000 enquiries. We spent seven years collecting 1 million. NOK in order to be able to go to court. The counterparty spent $14 million. kr on the same case. There was one owner of the house who got his case illuminated. The 699 remaining had to go through the same apparatus. That is why I am very pleased with the comment that is now available, that the Government must intervene in this. I also want to point out the importance of the local offices, because if we had not had a local office in Rogaland that had followed us up on this matter, it would never have been possible to execute a legal case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e988	I thought I would just take the opportunity to go through the minority proposals that are available, and link some comments to them, so we won't take it later. As regards proposal No: 1, I signaled in my post strong support for this, and it would be a shame to get it downhearted. I was in my post why we do not want to support it, and I ask that it be sent. As regards proposal No: 2, follow-up to the intentions of the budget presented by the Government, and the proposal also applies primarily to the 2001 government budget. This is probably because we are handling the message as long as the setting was set. So I ask that the proposal be sent. Proposal No. 3 is going to work on it. We do not disagree with the intentions, but have no need to impose such an implementation on the Government. It could have been okay if the proposers sent it, so you don't have to get it down. The same applies to proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox As regards proposal No: 5, we ask for an assessment of a moratorium, and the Minister of Agriculture has been concerned about how this will be dealt with in the future. So I hope you can also submit that proposal. As regards proposal No: 6, we agree with the intentions. We all know where the shoe prints in relation to the marketing and production of organic food. That's what needs to be focused. I hope it can be transmitted as well. Proposal No. 7 is also important, and it works exactly to improve the systems continuously. I hope it can be transmitted, in line with the Minister of Agriculture. Proposals Nos. 8 and 9 of the Progress Party, dealing with and intervening in the investigation work to be carried out by the Ministry. We don't want to go in and support them now. It could have been good for the proposers to have it assessed in this context and not downgraded in this context. But the Progress Party will have to make its assessment. The same applies to proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox It would be natural to follow up on the investigation work that is now being carried out, and I hope that it can be transmitted. Proposal No. 11 I'm a little bit unsure of what that means. But the focus of the media will, of course, also have an impact on the public organisation of consumer information. The proposal will thus intervene in the investigation that the department now has to carry out and naturally belongs there. So I ask that it also be transmitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1011	I don't have to be long. I think we have good reasons for the proposals that SV is associated with either the Christian People's Party and the Central Party or only the Central Party to be transmitted. I have noticed that this is what I consider to be a promise that the Storting should be able to get back to the question of moratorium, and I am pleased with that. I agree that we can come back to the questions that these proposals address, several times. There are budgetary possibilities, and also in connection with what the Government must come back to as a follow-up to this message. We do not, of course, want as good a proposal as this to be put to the vote, so I would ask them to be sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1016	I have something on my mind that I think should not be unspoken in this debate, and it has something to do with nutrition policy. As far as I understand from this year's draft budget, it is a reduction in VAT of half a billion dollars for meat. Meat consumption has never been higher in Norway, and meat and meat products are one of the main sources of fat in Norwegian diets. A price reduction will lead to an even higher consumption. High fat intake helps to increase the risk of a number of our major public diseases, including cancer, cardiovascular diseases and type 2 diabetes. My question to the Council of State is whether or not this – public health – is part of consumer policy, and whether the Government's proposals now correspond to the public health and nutrition policy objectives. Or are these two completely separate specialities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1021	Since the Minister of Agriculture has gone, I get to try an answer. It is a very broad majority in the Grand Duchy who have expressed a very definite desire that the meat price should fall, and after what I have learned, the Progress Party has also been very concerned with the border trade and that we need to have a reduction in, among other things. the alcoholic and meat prices. But I see absolutely Fridtjof Frank Gundersen's points in relation to the fact that we also have to come up with measures and look at the whole of the nutritional, and also fruit and green will be important when we look at the nutritional aspects of our health in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1026	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1034	We're ready for voting. In the case on the supplementary agenda, there was no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1201	A total of 11 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-4, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No. 5-7, by Anne Enger Lahnstein on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 8 and 9, by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Recommendations have been made to make some of the proposals for transmission proposals. If someone has planned to change their proposal for a transfer proposal, it would be nice if it was notified now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1219	I have asked from the Chair that the motions be put to the vote. Two, three, four, five, six, seven, ten and eleven are converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1226	Yes, the President is aware of that, but Ågot Valle does not have the power to make them himself – just some of them. If anyone wants to convert their own proposals for transmission proposals, I need confirmation of that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1229	We're talking, and we're talking about transmission.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1236	That means that the proposals No. 2-4 will be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1239	We also want to make the proposals No. 5-6 and 7 on transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1246	All right. And Ågot Valle has confirmed that SV will make the proposals no. 10 and 11 on transmission proposals. Then the President has an overview of this. Then we start by recording the proposals No. 1-4, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 is a transmission proposal in its form, and proposals Nos. 2-4 has now been converted into a transmission proposal and changed accordingly. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine the question that all canteens operated by the State or providing services to the State should offer organic food and fair coffee as part of its range of products.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit a plan for stepping up research into the environmental and health consequences of food produced from genetically modified products, in the context of the 2001 State Budget. This is assumed to be done in cooperation with international research communities.» Proposal No. 3 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government strengthen the Norwegian legislation on the labelling of genetically modified food in line with EU legislation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals on the traceability of foodstuffs.’ The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Then the President will bring up the proposals No. 10 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party. They are also converted into transmission proposals, and the wording is amended accordingly. Proposal No. 10 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit a proposal for strengthening and organising public consumer information.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds in modified form: «It is recommended that the Government ensure that the independent consumer information is seen primarily as a consumer policy instrument and not as an revenue-bearing measure.» The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We have now come to the proposals No. 5, 6 and 7, of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, which have also been converted into a transmission proposal and amended accordingly. Proposal No. 5 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit a proposal for a temporary ban on foods based on genetically modified products for a period of 10 years. Such a moratorium should include in concrete terms: a ban on all the cultivation of genetic food and feed in Norway, with the exception of the release of genetically modified organisms into experimental fields. Proposal No. 6 sounds in modified form: «It is recommended that the Government ensure that all organic food production must be sold and marketed as organic products to consumers.» Proposal No. 7 sounds in modified form: «It is recommended that the Government amend the procedures and organisation of the control of fruit and vegetables so that batches of products containing dangerous quantities of pesticide residues do not reach the consumer market.» The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. This leaves the proposal No. 8 and 9 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: «Consumer interest supervision shall be established. This is organised as an independent administrative body, with its own board responsible for monitoring the functioning of consumer supervision.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘A system is established whereby the Board of Appeal is the Board of Appeal also in respect of the decisions of the Competition Authority.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-20.ana.ud641e1348	There is no record.
