ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e42	The representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, who has been licensed, has taken the seat again. It summons the deputy representative of the state of Troms, Ruth Stenersen, has taken the seat. The following permit applications are made: from the representatives of Gunn Karin Gjul, Torny Pedersen and Jan Tore Sanner on leave from 22 November to 24 November from the representative of Hilde Frafjord Johnson on 22 and 23 November, all to attend the Sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in The Hague On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications will be examined immediately and accepted.2. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Julie Christiansen For the Nordic region: Bears Olsen For the Province of Rogaland: Olaf Gedrem For South Tribute County: No Balstad
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e103	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meeting today – and see it as agreed. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e108	I allow myself to propose Ursula Evje and Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e113	Ursula Evje and Kenneth Svendsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not in line, and Ursula Evje and Kenneth Svendsen are jointly elected as presidents of today’s meeting. The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e118	I propose covering costs of home-based dialysis as treatment for chronic renal insufficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e123	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e129	The President will take note of Section 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure and the deadline set for the Financial Committee's discharge of the budget. S. I and Budget-in. S. No 1 cf. the second and third paragraphs. It is decided that the Financial Committee shall give the relevant options by 20 November at the latest. The Financial Committee has turned to the Presidency and called for a derogation from the deadline and for a new deadline for the committee currently in place to be set on 23 November. On this basis, the President will propose to the Stortinget that a derogation be made to the deadline for surrender laid down in the second paragraph of Section 19 and that a new deadline be set to 23 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e136	The fact that the deadline is likely to be postponed is no exception, as the government party and the three previous government parties – to put it correctly – have dealt with what has been in the cards, that they should negotiate a budget compromise, since the summer. It has taken an unusually long time, and they could have started a long time earlier. However, what is now a problem, which may become a problem of democracy, is that the opposition will not have the opportunity to respond to a possible settlement between the government party and the three former government parties. We cannot therefore agree to postpone the deadline to the 23rd, as the President has now proposed, it is impossible to decide on a new deadline until we are familiar with this settlement. If the deal is like it may have been traditionally, where a few things have been moved, there is no problem, but according to the press and media coverage, substantial changes in the budget that the opposition at SV, Right and Advance Party have so far been expected to work on. And if there's going to be major changes, near what's in the media coverage, it's completely irresponsible to expect the opposition to be able to deal with a real new budget, and maybe a lot of new legislation in just a few hours. Therefore, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to say that we reserve the right, if there is a decision on 23rd, to come back to the Stortinget in plenary with other proposals regarding the final time of delivery. We need to see the agreement before we can decide. Based on that assumption and on that reservation, we will accept the President's proposal, but we will not feel obliged by the deadline of 23 November. If the deal is comprehensive, we'll reserve the right to come back to plenary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e145	As reported in the newspapers, the negotiating parties have now worked for 41 days on a scheme that is not known to the Stortinget, either the bodies of the Stortinge, the Scientific Committees of the Stortinge on this issue. We're going to be familiar with this this afternoon. Such arrangements of the Financial Committee, following the application currently on the table, do not allow the opposition parties to take their views together as a group on completely new proposals. Usually this type of enquiry is agreed by the Committee. Of course, the Committee has agreed that this would be postponed – one is able to read the almanac either in negotiation or, if necessary, in opposition – but the date for this is not agreed. It is completely irresponsible to recommend such a scheme in accordance with the view of the Right Group. Therefore, I would suggest to the President that the proposal is not being dealt with now, but is being discussed in a new meeting over the weekend. It gives us the opportunity to take a stand and set a realistic deadline for all the Biggest parties to participate in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e150	The question of any delay in delivery was raised at the last meeting of the Committee. There, the Committee expressed the wish to inform the presidency that the deadline would probably have to be moved, without one saying anything about what was a naturally new deadline. We then agreed that a new deadline had to be set. Following the request of the Presidency, the deadline suggested by the President is the one now proposed. The starting point for the current deadline is that the time from real to formal release is liberal enough to follow an ordinary timetable, and the time from formal release to debate in the hall remains in hours – well and well – compared to the rules that apply to the length of time that type of document should be left out. The deadline has therefore been proposed to be postponed for three days, in which case the remainder of the run-up is held in such a way that the Storting's days of debate on the financial position need not be changed. Of course, I understand with the representative Hagen concluded that it would be impossible for the opposition parties to go through the scheme that is coming, we are in a new situation. The time limit now set has been set in the light of and in the light of the examination carried out by the Committee which concluded that it is better to postpone the time limit than to have too little time to have a responsible treatment within the time limit. I support the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e161	The Financial Committee has been presented with a revised work plan whereby the Financial Committee is to be informed today of a settlement and also of the main points of this conciliation. As we are familiar with through the media, this is a very comprehensive settlement, affecting a great many chapters and items, among other things. because part of the major changes announced in the media is VAT compensation and also compensation for short-term charges, which then affects 01 items throughout the budget. In practice, it will be very difficult for the opposition to find out whether this compensation, which is obviously to be taken from many items, is correct. The opposition will have many questions for the ministry, and we will actually need a whole new budgetary procedure. This means that we will need a longer period of time than indicated by the work plan now submitted to the Committee. The only reasonable thing, when the Financial Committee is today informed of a settlement, and also the main points of this settlement, will be that the plenary session will take an early next week's view on how a sound progress plan can be, so that the opposition is given the opportunity to engage in what is actually a completely new state budget compared to what we have now spent more than 40 days in getting involved. We will have a day and a half – at best – if this work plan is followed, and it is very difficult, with all due respect, to deal with us. So that representative Foss suggests that the Storting in plenary on Monday or Tuesday takes a position on the further progress of the government budget's treatment, is, in SV's opinion, a wise procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e168	I have to admit that I am relatively shocked that this is up to treatment in Stortinget today. Firstly, this is not a plan of progress agreed within the Financial Committee. The Financial Committee received it by e-mail yesterday, as a draft new progress plan. It is quite common for the committees to deal with this first and then move on to the Stortinget with it. As Secretary of the Financial Committee, I was also not informed in advance of this, which I think is relatively special, as the management of the Committees usually unites that kind of thing before they are presented. So I was completely unfamiliar with it before I received it by e-mail in the same line with the other committee. It's also stated that the opposition will answer as much as it can within 5 p.m. 23 Saturday night. That means that we don't get many hours to look through a possible very extensive settlement and decide on it. In addition, we know that the ministry has suggested that they need 36 hours before they can answer opposition questions. And it goes without saying that it would be almost impossible for the opposition parties to deal on a factual basis with the possible settlement. So there's every reason to be careful about pushing this through, if you want this hall to be able to deal with things in a normal, democratic way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e181	I'm not going to extend this meeting with a long post, but I want to point out the moments Daag Terje Andersen had in his posts in relation to progress plans and deadlines. I understand that the rest of the opposition reacts to the fact that we have to postpone the deadline – I understand that reaction – but still think it is possible to implement the deadline according to the deadlines for which the president did well. So I just want to say briefly that I support the proposal from the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e188	For the sake of order only: when the representative Siv Jensen mentioned the deadline set by the department – 36 hours – it is the usual deadline for follow-up questions on alternatives introduced in the last round. So the point is that with the race that's set up now, the usual time frame is to be able to ask questions, post comments, etc. in place. That was why, at the request of the Presidency to set a date, the delivery date was proposed to a date that would allow for such a race, plus that one would maintain the two days set aside for the financial debate in the hall. I think that might be an advantage for someone. As I said in my first post, I understand that the other parts might need a little longer time than the usual routine. Should that be necessary, I, as I said, have nothing against it. Everyone deserves to see that the budgetary procedure is as thorough as possible. But I think we actually have a problem. When the deadline for delivery is Monday, and here we are discussing derogating from the regulations, I would think that it is a formal problem for us if we do not have a decision in the Chamber on a postponement by Monday, when the deadline for delivery actually is. I assume that was the point of the Presidency asking for a new date, so that the matter could be dealt with. Should the Storting, if it is in line with the Regulation, consider postponing the date without specifying a fixed new date of delivery, it would, in so far as it would not affect the run in relation to reaching it by that date, if practicable. I have to ask the President to assess this, because, as I said, it's a formality that it's a certain date of surrender. And if we don't say anything else today, it applies to the date of surrender. This should be settled by Stortinget, otherwise we must have a meeting on Monday. And in fact, the Storting is not supposed to meet on Monday. I'm asking that someone take into account that that's what we're doing. What we have added up to now is correct – there may be other models.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e197	I think the head of the finance committee is right that we now have a problem, that is. We don't just have one problem here, we have a lot of problems. And one problem is that the settlement partners have spent an incomprehensible long time in this process — a very long time. That's what's the starting point of the problem. What has further strengthened it is that some of the negotiating partners have not even made their starting points publicly visible, so that we have probably had a process that has been more closed than ever. And that gives us problem number. Secondly, there is a problem of democracy. There must be insight into the processes that are taking place, and with the timescales for which it is being set up, it will be very difficult. I would like to advise the conciliators that once you have spent so much time on behalf of others, you should be exceptionally soft in listening to the opposition in Stortinge, which must have proper working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e206	I would like to stress what the representative Petersen said here, because that is essentially what is at the heart of the matter. It is not the opposition in Stortinget that has meant that this deadline has to be postponed or extended, it is the position and the ones that are now being negotiated. This means that we are facing a significant democratic problem, since it is not made visible a single position so far on what is being negotiated. This means that the three parties, the Right, the Advance Party and the SV, in what is the Committee's provisional suspension, have submitted all their primary positions on taxes and taxes and on all other issues related to a government budget. We know by now. So, the date is nothing about what's lying there. And after what we're told, it's almost a whole new state budget. So the deadline for us in the opposition will be eight hours to enter new positions, from Saturday to Saturday night. Clearly, this is totally unsustainable. And it brings us to the question of whether that's practicable. Yes, it is possible that it is practicable, but is it democratically sustainable? Obviously not! What to think about is that what to do today may set a precedent for future budgetary procedures. Then it's not certain that the constellation is exactly the same as today. This means being very humble in the opposition's wish for an extended period of time for the proper treatment of the state budget. I am promoting the proposal as Mr. Foss suggested. There is not a meeting in Stortinget on Monday, but it is not a formal problem. The size can be called on very short notice. I think it is wise that the Storting should take a position on this issue when we know the content of the government budget agreement that will obviously come to the Finance Committee today at 0 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Before that time, we don't know anything, nor do we know the extent of the work being done to the opposition to get proper treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e215	Of course, the chairman of the Financial Committee, Dag Terje Andersen, is quite right in saying that it is of the formal importance that the plenary assembly adopts a decision that the deadline of 20 November, laid down in Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure, will not apply, and that it should be decided that that deadline should be waived. That's absolutely correct. I also accepted that in my first post. For the clarity of the formalities – it has emerged from several opposition parties that one does not feel prepared to set a new deadline, and in the proposal that the President reads, it is a sentence that says that a new deadline is set at 23 November – I will be allowed, on behalf of Per-Kristian Foss and myself, to promote the following alternative proposals: ‘The provision in the second paragraph of Section 19 of the Storting’s Rules of Procedure on the issuing of the financial position shall be waived by 20 November at the latest. Then we don't need an extraordinary big meeting on Monday, but it can be taken up on the basis of the discussions that take place regularly in the financial committee and probably also between the opposition parties, when we are ready to set a new date. Then it can be communicated so that it can be addressed to a new treatment. If the President maintains his proposal, we ask for alternative voting between the proposal for a new deadline on 23 November and the proposal that the Stortinget set a new deadline for a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e232	The way to solve this that was now suggested, of course, we have nothing against it. It's so far after Presidential enquiry that we've come back with a new date. And to the extent that we solve the problem by actually deciding that November 20 should be waived – which was not really part of the first posts here – we have the formalities in place. As I said, the running of the proposed dates means that we have room for the deadlines for proper treatment. Nor is it the case that the representative Djupedal said that it is the last deadline on Saturday night. It's actually the first time to submit new answers, and there are many deadlines after that. So it is possible to get a responsible race in relation to the indicated date. But it's all right for us that we don't set a new date, just make sure that the Storting doesn't break its own rules by ignoring November 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e239	The President will then ask if it is so to understand that the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left can support the proposal of Carl I. Hagen, presented on behalf of Per-Christian Foss and Carl I. Hagen; Øystein Djupedal have been in the same position. For the most part, as we have said here, the derogation from Section 19, which saw the deadline for the 20th, is confirmed. Since there is no meeting in Stortinget, Monday or Tuesday, a new date may be set at the earliest on Wednesday. The 23rd, as the president mentioned in his proposal, is on Thursday – for the one who doesn't have his calendar in order. It seems that the President can draw up his proposal. Then the President will vote on the proposal by Carl I. Hagen: ‘The provision in the second paragraph of Section 19 of the Storting’s Rules of Procedure on the issuing of the financial position shall be waived by 20 November at the latest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e254	Furthermore, the Presidency's aim is that the financial debate should take place on Monday 27 November and Tuesday 28 November as previously established. It is clear that if the deadline goes well beyond 23 November, it could also be waived. But that's what we're going to do in a later meeting in Stortinget. Then the President will propose that today's meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time for the morning meeting, at 9 p.m. 15.00, until the matters on today's map have been processed. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e266	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e273	The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred in his statement to the Stortinget on Tuesday to a very comprehensive list of issues and issues that Norway will be faced with as a future member of the Security Council. Part of the summary and emphasis expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we are pleased with in the Christian People's Party. The presentation did not contain any new, surprising issues. It was rather a more descriptive, referenced review of current issues, to which we, as a member of the Security Council, have to deal. In addition to the review itself, I had hoped, for my part, that the Foreign Minister would also include something about the strategic idea of how the Government wants to use the Security Council membership to put new or less focused, but nevertheless important issues on the political agenda. I think that is the possibility that we should also benefit from in this situation for our part. The Christian People's Party supports the Norwegian priorities and proposals for management, as presented in the presentation. The Foreign Minister focused on three main areas: firstly, the focus on prevention and underlying causes of war and conflict; secondly, the focus on peace operations; and thirdly, not least the focus on Africa. I am particularly pleased and agree with the latter priority, the focus on Africa. It is necessary and justified in the light of the needs and challenges facing this continent. I am therefore pleased with the attention that the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave to these questions in his presentation. Norway is generally known and recognised for its commitment to peace and reconciliation, and I dare to believe that there will be expectations among many countries that we will actively contribute with our membership to innovation, dare to move beyond known tracks and thus also contribute to the vitalisation and renewal of the work of the Security Council. It may seem a bit ambitious and free, but in fact, I believe that such expectations exist among many countries when Norway now makes its entry into the Security Council. There was less estimation of such thinking in the Foreign Minister's statement, but that does not mean that it is not working on such issues, so I would like to take the opportunity to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to develop views in this area. Let me mention for myself some elements that I think it would be natural to include in such a strategy. Firstly, one of the main challenges is the importance and role of the Security Council, namely to prevent the Security Council from becoming paralysed and passive in the context of current conflict situations. In the shadow of the established veto right of the five permanent members, we see the outlines of a development that can put the UN on the sideline in current conflict situations. If the role of the Security Council as the primary custodian of international peace and stability is to be maintained and expanded, the Council must be able to play on different types of instruments, where the use of power through humanitarian intervention and similar instruments can only be one of several options. Norway should work systematically to review the functioning of the Security Council and renew and strengthen the role of the Security Council. Secondly, there are issues related to the new, multi-faceted, conflict picture that represent new challenges for the Security Council. In this new picture of conflict, we see fewer conflicts between sovereign states. Almost all conflicts are internal, where light weapons are spread to far more actors, and where conflicts primarily affect the civilian population. These conflicts have proved to be considerably more difficult to control. Half of all peace settlements in such conflicts end in new wars. We have relatively fresh examples of that, unfortunately. The role of the Security Council must therefore be considered and renewed. Thirdly, many conflicts are linked to the control and exploitation of natural resources. In Africa, for example: in Angola, Congo, Sierra Leone – diamonds, minerals and oil and gas are involved and thus affect international trade and business cooperation. It is well known that access to water resources can also trigger serious conflicts. Norway has already been involved in such issues, for example: related to the Middle East water resources. For its part, the Security Council has begun to address such issues, including: in the case of trade in diamonds. It would therefore be natural for Norway to contribute to the raising of this important issue on the agenda of the Security Council. Fourthly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to the provision of sanctions. Norway should take the initiative, in addition to introducing so-called ‘smart sanctions’, to identify new instruments on a scale ranging from absolute prohibition to milder and more accurate instruments. The aim is, of course, to hit the current undemocratic regimes and not the innocent civilian population, as we unfortunately see sad examples of today. The Security Council needs a broad instrument, travel bans, bans on currency transactions, exclusion from international forums and international financial institutions, but these instruments need to be complemented by new ones, which are more strongly targeted at political and economic power. The sanctions against South Africa on the sports side were discussed, and they were special, but they certainly had their effect. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was involved in this respect in Iraq. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have previously asked for a reassessment of the UN sanctions policy against Iraq. We believe that we are now approaching a point of intersection with regard to the serious consequences of the current situation for the civilian population in Iraq. Of course, the Foreign Minister said that this is because of Saddam Hussein's iron grip on the Iraqi population. But whatever the cause context, we can no longer see that the population suffers in this way. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs underlined this consideration in his statement. However, it is more unclear to me what initiatives the Government will now take. I noticed that Secretary of State Raymond Johansen said in the media – it was probably November 6th – that no matter what committee chairship a sheep in the Security Council, Norway will go in to change the sanction regime towards taking greater account of the civilian population. And that's good. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to contribute to clarifying and clarifying the measures in question. Fifthly, an important issue that was not addressed in the presentation is linked to the organisation of the UN work to better contribute to the prevention and early warning of conflicts. Unfortunately, there are watertight bulkheads between important strategic parts of the UN apparatus that create major problems for effective management and follow-up. Also at country level, cross-sectoral action should be taken to make the United Nations system more effective. Norway needs to build new alliances in order to make an impact on our priorities and on new approaches and instruments. Our allies will always be important to Norway in such a context, including in our work in the Security Council. At the same time, however, it is necessary to build new alliances with other countries in order to get through. Not least, I think it is expected that we will establish good contact and seek cooperation with many of the non-permanent members of the Security Council. It may also include enhanced contact with countries with which we usually do not have such a close relationship. Finally, in his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that membership of the Security Council would require ‘a strict prioritisation of our own efforts’. That's understandable. Nevertheless, I hope that this does not signal a down-priority of peace processes and reconciliation work in which Norway has played and still plays an active role, without these issues of conflict being high on the Security Council's own agenda. Although Council membership is a heavy challenge, there is reason to recall that Norway and Norwegian actors have developed a credibility that is essential to play a role in peace and reconciliation through long-term efforts in many conflict areas. Therefore, I hope the Foreign Minister can confirm that these commitments will continue with the same strength and effort as before. Both before and after the security period, there are conflicts where Norwegian efforts have been valued highly. Long-term efforts should therefore continue over the next two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e306	This is probably more a question than a line, I think. I think Einar Steensnæs was a little unclear about the question of building alliances. I perceive in his articles a wording that he was not particularly pleased with the traditional alliance partners we have, and that Norway should build new alliances. Could the representative be so kind as to say what he really had in mind? The point is that we have a stand in the Western community, and my question is whether that's the point of his infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e313	I can reassure the representative Petersen that it is not to affect our position in the alliance that has been concluded, among other things. in the context of NATO cooperation, and which will remain an important platform also in the field of Security Council cooperation. But what I pointed out is that our work in the Security Council gives us opportunities for new alliances with countries that we usually don't cooperate with. This is particularly true of the non-permanent members of the Security Council, where I think it is expected that we can join a network to reconcile forces on issues of great importance to security policy, and where I feel that one also has common interests and common attention. These are the options I think we are going to actively exploit in our forthcoming membership of the Security Council. There is therefore nothing to be done at the expense of established structures and cooperation in which Norway has traditionally participated very actively, but there are questions that, in addition to these alliances, one can also build new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e318	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e321	Norway takes its seat in a very powerful body on 1 January next year. The Security Council has the primary responsibility to ensure peace and security on behalf of UN members. The Security Council may bind all countries and the Council may institute coercive measures. This is the case when decisions are taken under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. There are few – if any – other places we give away as much power as we do to the Security Council. And we give power from ourselves to a few large countries that rule and rule. Especially democratic is it not – we ourselves rarely have the right to voice in this assembly. But we give up power without debate, and I'm glad that's how it is, because it's important. In January we take on one of the rare periods in which we have voting rights, but also one of the rare periods in which we are directly responsible for the work of the Council, one of the rare periods in which we must have constructive and responsible opinions on a series of unpleasant matters. The great power of the Council is not always expressed in clear decisions and uncompromising action. It is because the Security Council is also an arena of compromise, compromise between the most powerful of the members. The power of the powerful in the Council lies not only in the military, economic and political power that these states retain. The power also lies in the fact that they are permanent members and have veto rights in the Council. How they've got this special position in the United Nations, is another thing. It is also the representativeness of the veto acts in the Council. This is shaky and baffling, but fortunately the composition of the council is not the theme of this word change. Here I see only previous debates on reforms in the United Nations system. Here I just want to highlight the positive in what the Foreign Minister said that in the first weeks to come, a search for a closer dialogue with central regional powers such as India and South Africa will take place. This is an important initiative not only with regard to the Security Council, but also as a longer-term strategy. Compromise and veto in the Security Council is not always an expression of action paralysis. As long as the major powers sit in the council and comply with the decisions, we let them act on their own. Unilateralism or omnilateralism and self-esteem from individual states are and will be the greatest threat to international law and order, and to peace and security. The counterweight is a strong and trustworthy world organization. The big ones don't have to wrestle by raising their hands. They can't work together. If the great ones take power with them and go, the power of the Security Council and of the United Nations will also disappear. This is an opinion that must be involved in the work. Compromise is not only necessary from a political point of view. The lack of resources in the United Nations system also sets clear limits on what one can achieve. Realistic tasks are better that you can carry out than good ones that later turn out to be a mistake. We've seen examples lately, especially in connection with some peace operations. Addressing this is the arrangement of the Government, as the Foreign Minister presented it, realistically. It's low, but it's ambitious. And contrary to the representative Steensnæs, I think the government put forward a strategy for what it wants to do with its work in the Security Council. It is important that it is not possible to lure theorize over individual conflicts and issues in advance. First of all, the conflicts never come in the order we're prepared for. The fires can strike out where we're a little forbidden. Secondly, developments tend to take paths that we could not know in advance. Thirdly, and most importantly, Norway is to become a member of the Security Council. Norway shall not take over the Council. There will be others who still have something to say in the Security Council, and many are probably happy about it. It is not that there is a jittering of the masses around the world because if Norway now takes the seat of the Security Council. I see that many people are very concerned about Norway’s taking over the chairmanship of one of the sanctions committees. There is no shortcut to resolving any of the conflicts they involve, partly because there are conflicting interests in the Council that make it difficult to resolve, and partly because there are actually difficult situations ahead. There is no doubt that sanctions against Iraq should be changed. It's been a long time since we first addressed this question. There are both political and humanitarian reasons – I stress: both political and humanitarian reasons – for policy to change. Now this should not be a debate on Iraq, but I would point out that the debate in the future should not be so simple as to make it appear that the problem of Iraq is simply linked to the sanctions. It is not that if the sanctions are lifted, it will automatically rest and prosperity above the area. Another misinterpretation is that sanctions against Iraq are aimed at removing Saddam Hussein. That's wrong. Penalties include: relate to weapons of mass destruction inspections based on the experience of the Gulf War. On the other hand, sanctions have given Saddam Hussein the opportunity to gather people against the outside world. It was not the intention. What's better for a tyrant than to show that he's surrounded by enemies? He used weapons of mass destruction against his own. Now he can use such children in own countries as shields and humanists world over as involuntary ambassadors for his cause. It is important that the work on ‘smart sanctions’ should be continued, as the Foreign Minister stressed in his briefing. The weapons of sanctions are not sufficiently sophisticated today. The unintended effects almost always shade for those intents. On the other hand, sanctions will almost always have to have effects other than what you're planning to hit, but the main point is that the penalties are too rough to achieve the measures you're looking for. I therefore agree with what the Foreign Minister said about Iraq, and I am also in favour of a further debate on the use of sanctions. I have no particular opinion on what sanction committee Norway should have. I can only see that there are fewer direct major powers associated with Angola than with Iraq. War, conflict and corruption are three fundamental obstacles to development. I am therefore pleased that the Government has set up the following main priorities for the work of the Security Council: focus on the link between peace and development The UN's ability to plan and carry out peace operations with particular emphasis on following up the Brahimi report on the challenges in Africa The size should be allowed to enter each of these areas at a later position. I ask the Ministry to help lay the foundation for such a closer review of these questions later in Stortinget. Finally, a few words about the interaction between collapsing and government in time. On the one hand, it is obvious that the Government has very wide powers on issues that come up in the Security Council. On the other hand, an obligating country in a wide range of issues that may be both controversial and may require resources. However, the work of the Security Council cannot be done through debates and voting in the Stortinget. Therefore, I have no other advice than to ask for the Storting to be briefed and consulted as necessary, and that it is only the sound judgement that will determine when this need is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e378	In the opinion of the Progress Party, there is a clear statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The main features of this statement are broad political consensus, and they also have the upswing of the Progress Party. It is also clearly underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Government will consult the bodies of the Storting, if necessary, and return to the activities of the Security Council in the presentations the Government gives to the Stortinge in the future. It sees the Progress Party as reassuring. The Progress Party has expectations of Norway's participation in the Security Council. For a number of years, the UN has been a cornerstone of Norwegian policy. We have been given a unique opportunity to make our contribution to the development of the world society in the future. We have had an excellent opportunity to contribute to working for human rights. We can also help to put our mark on the political crisis management for which the United Nations has the primary responsibility. In other words, it's positive for Norway that we're being noticed in the world community, not least it has a bearing on the integration we get from our allies, etc. It has been said here today by the representative of Steensnæs that this will give Norway an opportunity to build new alliances. Of course, it's positive, and we have to take advantage of that opportunity. But in the opinion of the Progress Party, there is nevertheless reason to stress that the central thing must be to maintain a good relationship with our allies. And to the extent that it will be necessary to give priority here, we are not in doubt that this is what Norway needs to prioritise. Although Norway is a small country, we have an active international commitment. When it was said in the statement that ‘we must be sober and realistic’, the Progress Party takes a very positive view of it. It is important that Norway should also give priority here. As the representative of Blankenborg was involved, it is, after all, limited to what Norway can contribute to the Security Council. In terms of priority geographically, Africa is specifically mentioned in the statement. What is important in this way is that this commitment should not be at the expense of Europe, given that it is our central neighbourhood. Furthermore, the sanctions against Iraq have been mentioned. The position of the Progress Party here is that any change in sanctions against Iraq should not occur without being in accordance with our allies. It is important to stress, as the representative of Blankenborg pointed out in his statement, that this is essentially a nation holding weapons of mass destruction, which, if used, could have disastrous consequences. There is reason to stress that, after all, the British and the Americans are on the necessary information on precisely these weapons and also on the necessary information on the extent to which UN resolutions in this area are respected. It's important that we don't let ourselves be pressured by a dictator like Saddam Hussein. Therefore, to sum up, we look forward to the role that Norway will play in the Security Council in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e393	There is no doubt that Norwegian membership of the Security Council is both very joyful and very important. I am convinced that this will shape much of the foreign policy debate over the next two years. Then it is paradoxical that, after the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement at the beginning of the week, there has practically been no debate on this in Norway. His statement has not aroused any special attention. It doesn't have to be bad news, because it's true, as the Foreign Minister observes, that most and most of the heaviest challenges you face will be in ongoing issues that emerge, regardless of planning and governance. And such conflicts, which are difficult, often profound and with long history, don't call for declarations and sweeping tabs, they call for wisdom and the will to find common solutions. In this way, I think that just the slightly waiting attitude to what this implies for Norway is good news. We cross the bridges when we get there. Norway has now provided international assistance for many years, through peacekeeping operations, through OSCE presidencies, through participation in KFOR and in other ways. It gives us an entrance to the international community, an entrance to states and groupings that we may not have enough. But what we're not making clear is what we want to use this entrance to. I would therefore like to remind you that our position and our starting point are the western community of which we are part. It's not the NATO question itself, as Steensnæs seems to believe. NATO is an expression that we are part of a larger western community. I think it's important to admit that this is the point of view we have, not least because here we have a community of values that it's important to hold on to. When I raised the question to Steensnæs, it was because I had been sitting in advance and reading, among other things. an opinion of the International Affairs Committee of the Inter-Church Council. It is very clear that this committee wishes Norway to pursue an independent policy vis-à-vis our traditional allies. They say right away that our traditional alliances are an obstacle to a so-called independent policy. I understood Steensnæs' response so that he has not been infected by this type of reflection. I hope it will last through the process. I think it's very important that we just insist that in a Western community it's about giving and taking. When we want the Americans to play a strong role in Europe, there is reason to remember that in turn they are quite questionable that a number of European countries are not equally concerned with the tasks of the Americans elsewhere. But we're probably going to sort that out, and I was reassured by the answer Steensnæs gave – at least so far. It is also symptomatic that relatively little is said about the situation in the Balkans, which must be a key challenge for Norway. But it may reflect the fact that much of what is to be done is not primarily happening in the United Nations. It may well be that the Balkans has just been a challenge for the entire United Nations system. Not least what happened in Srebrenica showed that the UN was not relevant to the conflict there at an important time. That is why it is particularly important that work is now being done to improve the preparation of the UN for the conflicts and peace-keeping operations that are coming, and I agree with Blankenborg and believe it is important for the Stortinge to discuss later and on a more complementary basis the reports that are now being discussed in the United Nations. The question we might be discussing with the greatest possible commitment in the future is the future sanction policy. I am satisfied with the wording used by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on Iraq, but I think it is important that we also discuss on a general basis the importance and relevance of sanctions as a foreign policy instrument. We are well, perhaps too many of us, characterized by the fact that we believe that the sanctions against South Africa was an important factor in bringing about the change in South Africa. I was among the enthusiastic followers of the sanctions for many years, but I must say that I may have come to realize in retrospect that it did not mean as much as the individual of us in the name of the debate meant. But on the other hand, you have to be extremely careful about cutting off sanctions, so we tend to do in the debate now. It's becoming almost a kind of read and agreed truth that sanctions lead to the population flocking around a dictator, and that's a reason why we're going to use sanctions to a lesser extent. We also used that argument when we discussed the sanctions against Serbia. But the elections in Yugoslavia showed that although we had severe sanctions against Yugoslavia, it did not lead to the end of the Milosevic population. Yes, it was perhaps just that he couldn't deliver, which was one of many reasons why we got the joyous shift of power in Yugoslavia. That's why there's reason to approach this very nuanced, and we'll never get past that we have to approach this question on a case-by-case basis. There's every reason to think about how to develop so-called smart sanctions. But I think that is all reason to take part in that debate in advance, before meeting the situation in concrete terms through the membership of the Security Council. I don't have much more to add. When I first said that there had been no debate after the Foreign Minister's statement, there was neither irony nor criticism in my case. In fact, I believe that in many ways it is good news; that means that Norwegian membership is managed on the basis of the foreign policy developed through long-term debate in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e416	I would like to repeat what I said about the importance of taking on the basis of our membership in NATO – our allies – which constitutes a very important basis for cooperation and action on the international stage. Norway has stressed and should continue to emphasise the transatlantic ties in the security policy, but that does not mean that we should close our eyes in order to ensure that when the major powers take place in the international arena, the interests of the major powers will also play a role in this. And we see a lot of examples of that. It also means that, in our membership of the Security Council, we should keep our eyes open on issues that are not brought on the agenda of the major acts, and how maybe Norway has other assessments of what should be done. Norway should therefore show the courage to raise important issues – even if neither the EU nor the United States were to support them – if Norway considers this to be appropriate in the light of its objectives and stated strategies in the security, peace and reconciliation work. That is the boldness I think we should use in our membership, and in addition to the traditional allies, new ties to the non-permanent members, where we see that Norway has a role to play and can support the initiatives that other countries have to take and which affect important issues in a renewed and different way from the traditional one. I may think that Jan Petersen has too little attention to the opportunities that our membership offers us in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e428	Steensnæs said that he “sees” not that I had sufficient attention to this. I think maybe he met very precisely when he used the word "seen." That was in so far as a vision from Mr. Steensnæs" page, on which I have not intended to spend more time. I'm just going to say – so we don't make any more disagreement than the most necessary here – that it's of course that in a community you can't look at all questions the same. That means, of course, that you want to have different perceptions of completely concrete things – even in a basic community. At that point, I think we're actually pretty much in agreement. This means that Norway also has an agenda they should pursue, even when it means a discussion and a settlement between close allies. What is my point, however, is to stress that there is a community, and that within this community there is talk of taking and giving. From European allies it is often a quite one-sided attitude. We want the Americans here, but otherwise we don't want anything to do with them elsewhere. It won't last. It has to be a take-and-gi-principle. At that point, I guess Steensnæs was not quite clear, but we can probably get that clarity as we approach the concrete things. I think in many ways that this is well a question of just remembering what our starting point is, and I'm pretty sure that Steensnæs is also going to remember it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e437	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e440	The election of Norway to the UN Security Council is a binding declaration of trust by the international community. When Norway is about to denounce the responsible place in the United Nations, it is reassuring that there is a broad political consensus in the United Nations on the central role of the world community and on the main lines of Norwegian UN policy. The five permanent members of the Security Council naturally put their strong mark on the work of the Council. Therefore, it is also wise — as the Minister for Foreign Affairs does — to adopt a sober and realistic view of Norway’s ability to influence the decisions of the Security Council. Nevertheless, through dialogue, cooperation and good diplomacy, it should be possible to win hearing and to have an impact on important Norwegian positions. The fact that Norway has gained useful experience through previous membership of the Council will be a good ballast when the membership period begins on 1 January next year. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has made a broad presentation on the challenges Norway will face as a member of the Security Council. When the government announces that it will put the underlying causes of wars and conflicts in focus, there is a line that will have broad support in the Storting. By combating poverty, non-development, repression and the increasing disparities in world society, the UN can help to reduce the risk of conflict and war. Here, Norway should have the best conditions for playing an active role in the Council. The majority has just three days ago marked a cross-political consensus on the strategy for Norway’s fight for human rights. In addition, Norway pursues an aid policy with the development and response to poverty as cornerstones. The Central Party also agrees that Norway in the Security Council should focus specifically on Africa in terms of war prevention and conflict prevention. Africa is probably the continent where the relationship between development and conflict is more evident. In Africa, HIV/AIDS is now the main challenge, and in some countries a whole generation of Africans are threatened. If one does not manage to cope with the HIV/AIDS epidemic that is raging some African countries as a mares, some countries may be destabilised, which will put an effective stop to any development. When the Government announces that it will focus in the Security Council on the underlying causes of conflicts, not least the fight against HIV/AIDS must be a priority task. In its presentation, the Foreign Minister mentioned in particular the challenges Norway will face as a Security Council member in terms of sanctions policy, one of the most conflicting issues in the UN. Norway, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, may have to lead the committee dealing with the UN sanctions against Iraq. I will use the rest of my post on this difficult and conflict-filled theme. The UN financial sanctions against Iraq have led to disastrous consequences for the civilian population in that country. As early as 1995, the reputable medical journal Lancet claimed that sanctions have most likely cost 567 000 Iraqi children their lives. Today, the Iraqi authorities claim to have passed 1.3 million. In a 1995 report, the FAO concluded that most of the strong increase in infant mortality among children under five years of age was a direct result of the sanctions. Although uncertainty is linked to these estimates, this represents a humanitarian disaster so dramatically that it is almost difficult to grasp. This disaster has developed over the next ten years without substantially achieving the objectives of the sanctions. It is this disparity between 'political gain' and 'civilian pain' that has made sanctioning policy one of the most controversial issues in terms of UN policy at the turn of the century. In the Question Time of 3 May this year, the Central Party's John Dale called for initiatives by the Norwegian Government to change the sanctions policy towards Iraq. Foreign Minister Jagland then referred to UN Resolution No. 1284, where some changes were made to the original sanctions, including: in the case of the so-called oil for the food regime. In his statement on Tuesday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that these reliefs had been of little benefit to the civilian population. The main responsibility for this lies with the country's leadership, according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is no doubt that Saddam Hussein is cynically exploiting the sanctions for his own benefit. In the NUPI journal International Policy No. 3 for this year, Henrik Thune claims that Hussein seems to have little to gain from the fact that oil for the food program is going to appear to be some success. For Baghdad, it may be far more opportune to hope that popular resistance to the sanctions will push individual states to break through the UN sanctions regime. In other words, there has been a dead lock situation – a settled situation – that can only be resolved through diplomacy and through changes in the UN sanctions policy towards Iraq. The starting point for the necessary changes in this policy must be to avoid the foreign minister mentioned as unintended ring-effects. And I noticed that he also promised that Norway would pay great attention to the concerns of the civilian population. It must be a proper strategy to make the UN sanctions policy more targeted and effective, so that it affects the leaders and decision-makers, and not the civilian population to the same extent. Some, and I think that's important, must also be willing to give up prestige in favour of a population suffering from malnutrition, lack of social care and impaired educational opportunities. Norway should set itself a concrete objective for the two-year period as a Security Council member to change the sanctions against Iraq so that the humanitarian disaster can once be brought to an end. In the long run, it is not useful to cross over a despot who shows contempt for human dignity, and who pushes a starving population in front of him to achieve his political goals. It is too easy to say that Iraq must get rid of its dictator. The world community can hardly be aware that the UN is pursuing a policy of sanctions that affects the most vulnerable and unprotected in the country. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have cross-political support in Stortinget for an active Norwegian line in the process of transforming the UN sanctions policy which can be a handshake to a heavily tried and tested civilian population in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e481	The site of the UN Security Council provides Norway with the opportunity to play a more prominent role in peace and security policy. SV sees it as positive that we succeeded in getting the place in the Security Council. Now it's up to Norway to show, not least to all those who are victims of war and conflict, that we deserve this place. SV has said before that it will be important for Norway to speak with a clear voice in the Security Council. As SV sees it, there is no contradiction between Norway playing an independent role and taking an independent position, and the fact that we are working on results-oriented. There has been a long election campaign, which has been crucial for Norway to have its seat in the Security Council. In the opinion of the SV, the election campaign has led to Norway being lower off the ground in terms of positions than we have reason to expect in a normal situation. In the same period as the election campaign has taken place, there has been an increasing debate on the sanctions against Iraq. A number of organisations, UN experts and countries have criticised the sanctions. Norway has not taken a clear stand in this debate, in addition to defending the sanctions. The sanctions against Iraq now become one of the most difficult issues Norway has to deal with. Norway will become a member of the Sanctions Committee for the Iraqi Penalties. It is also possible that we will have the job of chairing this committee. SV had wanted a more offensive attitude from the Government on this issue. We believe that Norway should express a clear desire to do a job for those who are suffering from the sanctions today. Instead, I perceive the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we should wait and see what happens with the leadership of the Committee, and that it is only Saddam Hussein's fault that the sanctions affect the civilian population. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also says that one will place great emphasis on the concern of the civilian population. It is not easy to understand that the Foreign Minister too cannot admit that the current sanctions against Iraq have failed, that they have hit the weakest, and that the sanctions seem to strengthen Saddam Hussein rather than weaken him. SV agrees that the biggest problem for the people of Iraq is enough Saddam Hussein, and that is why Norway needs to be involved in developing an effective and targeted strategy to bring about democratic development in Iraq, and to make Iraq respect the international legal order. SV will be very pleased if the Minister of Foreign Affairs could confirm that he will follow the National Labour Party's decision on this, where it says: ‘Norway must work to replace today’s financial sanctions against Iraq by measures that more effectively affect Saddam Hussein’s regime. Norway must help to ensure that the UN measures take more account of civilians and do not hit blindly and unfairly.’» The experience of both Serbia and Iraq suggests that we need to reconsider broad financial sanctions as a means of power. The idea of achieving political changes by isolation and by hitting a broad population is over-ripe for revision. This may be a useful idea for countries where the population can cast a leadership in elections. But there is, of course, just a lack of democracy that characterises the countries against which they impose sanctions. Another feature is the lack of respect for human rights and the lack of commitment to the welfare of the population. Broad financial sanctions will therefore affect most people, and worst of all those who have the most difficulty from before. It is positive that Norway will give high priority to developing more targeted sanctions. SV has traditionally been subject to financial sanctions, even when it was Iraq 10 years ago. But the experience suggests that there has to be new thinking. Developing appropriate means to intervene in countries that grossly violate human rights and international law and law will be a key challenge for the Security Council. The vast majority of today’s wars and conflicts are internal conflicts. It is a growing acceptance that the international community is responsible for intervening and providing protection to people who are subjected to systematic abuse and domestic violence. However, there are important prerequisites that must be met in order for international society to legitimately intervene in an internal conflict. A clear mandate from the Security Council is a clear prerequisite. Another premise is that one does not hit the civilian population one believes to intervene to help. A third is that one has a realistic implementation plan and for sufficient follow-up to ensure stable peace in the long term. Norway must help to protect and further develop the fragile international legal order that exists and ensure that international law is not undermined. While the UN, after the Cold War, has had greater opportunities to make decisions and act, we have seen a number of dramatic examples of the UN failing in its aim of protecting people from war. Rwanda, Srebrenica in Bosnia, Somalia and Sierra Leone are the worst examples where the UN has failed. The ability of self-criticism now shown in the UN is very positive. As the Brahimi report states, there is a need for an increased commitment to UN peace operations both in terms of planning, qualification and implementation. With regard to Norway's role in peace operations, we need to follow up on the commitments we have given regarding KFOR, but in the future we should ask ourselves whether Norway has not given too much priority to NATO action over UN action. It's e.g. unfortunate if the very demanding operations in Africa are to be left to poor countries, unless experienced and qualified people are to be deployed. The Middle East conflict will be among the conflicts that will be high on the agenda during our membership period. SV has called for a clearer criticism of Israel for violations of recognised rights. In our view, Israel must be called for greater respect for the UN and for decisions taken at the UN. The well-known Palestinian politician Hanan Ashrawi, who visited the Stortinge early this summer, has said this: we are asking Europe not only to treat Israel as a state, with the rights, but also with the obligations and responsibilities of other states, and not as a country that has been elevated above the law. Norway has placed great emphasis on the role of facilitating the peace process in the Middle East. We believe that the time has come for a clearer Middle East policy based on human rights, humanitarian international law and the rights that the United Nations has enshrined in the resolutions on the Middle East to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs also referred. In addition to the conflict areas mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to highlight South Asia as an area requiring attention and international efforts to prevent the escalation of the conflict. The conflict in Kashmir demands human life every day, but is largely absent from the Norwegian media scene. This conflict also highlights the importance of combating the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The Minister for Foreign Affairs did not address disarmament and non-proliferation issues in his statement. In the opinion of the SV, it is working for the disarmament of weapons of mass destruction that are very important security policy, and therefore also a matter of connection with our seat in the Security Council. Here, there has to be an agreement between what we're in favour of in NATO context, and what we're saying in the United Nations context. NATO's reasons for having nuclear weapons form a pattern for other countries. And this includes, among other things: NATO's nuclear strategy that makes SV not as enthusiastic of the so-called NATO community of values as that expressed by Jan Petersen. The quantity and proliferation of nuclear weapons is a serious international safety issue in itself. I would like to have the Foreign Minister's comment on the extent to which Norway will deal with disarmament issues related to the Security Council. SV believes that the three main areas identified by the Minister for Foreign Affairs are very important. It is very positive that the Government will focus on underlying causes of war and conflict, and on the relationship between peace and development. Both material resources and human suffering could have been saved if the international community could agree to spend far more on early warning and conflict prevention rather than equip themselves for war. The UN's resources will also extend better if one succeeds in preventing conflict rather than entering after war has erupted. The need for reform of the Security Council was not addressed. SV will underline the importance of getting a composition of the Security Council that better reflects today’s world picture. This should be stated, among others. strengthening the representation of developing countries. Doing something about the right to veto is a demanding task, but may as well be crucial for the United Nations to have the necessary power to act. Finally, I would like to stress that the Government must actively involve civil Norway in the work of the Security Council. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself has stated, membership is an important national challenge. At a time when the Security Council takes decisions more easily than in the previous period of Norway, we will have a more active debate in Norway on UN issues. I hope, therefore, that the Government will be interested in helping to facilitate debate and to allow different environments to participate in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e522	The Foreign Minister stressed in his statement that many had to share the credit for Norway’s membership of the Security Council. I think it's important to put these words to heart, so that we all also share the responsibility for good and bad days, to express myself that way, because of course it's an obligation to sit in the Security Council. But I expect our foreign management to have all the experience gained through the OSCE Presidency, so that it will provide an extra useful ballast in connection with the work of the Security Council. The left assumes that Norway in the Security Council must do what we can to strengthen the role of the United Nations in general, i.e. The United Nations reform process, both by strengthening the United Nations economy and by continuing the reforms in relation to its own organisation. There has been a lot of criticism about how this organisation works. I've met it myself in some contexts, and I've had to find out that this is the best we have, but we have to do it better. Not least I've found out about refugee issues. As far as reform is concerned, we will stress that we need to focus in particular on the UN's efforts to reduce poverty, address the global environmental threats, strengthen human rights and work for peace and democratic development. It is also, of course, to stress the UN's efforts to protect the civilian population in armed conflicts and all the forms of conflict prevention that can take place in the form of peacekeeping forces and through diplomatic efforts. In relation to the role of the United Nations, I would like to raise a subject that I believe has too little attention, and that is the effect of globalisation that we are all taking inwards and looking at as positive, namely the impact of the major international monopoly formations. In the view of the Left, these monopolies now have a strength and a rudeness that we probably need to return to before 1914 in order to find parallels. At that time the monarchies of monopolies were stopped by the First World War and by the Russian Revolution. There are international experiments and events that we don't want to repeat in a version on that scale and with what it can bring in a new millennium. Developing legal status to do something with these monopolies must be on the agenda. It must be on the agenda in this way that we must all recognise that the competition that globalisation is intended to promote must not be undermined because monopolies are allowed to develop in such a way that no one can stop them, and so that they ultimately undermine what is essential to the whole process of globalisation. It is true with the new monopolies that they are not found where they were traditionally, either on Wall Street or in European capitals. They may be on the Cayman Islands, on islands in the Pacific, or wherever it may be. And the UN system is one of the few institutional frameworks humanity has to address these questions. They're not easy to solve, they're demanding to approach, but I'll challenge the Secretary of State to get into this issue, because I think we're earned with it. Not least, Norway, like a small country with a totally open economy and integrated as we are in this economy, is totally dependent on us doing something about this in relation to international monopoly formations. There has been some focus on the situation in Iraq, and rightly so. We were one of the many, including the Left of course, who reacted sharply to the entire Saddam Hussein regime and the invasion of Kuwait. But it is now, nine years after a military operation has been cleared up as far as possible in relation to Saddam Hussein's regime, the need to discuss sanctions policy, not if we are going to have sanctions, but what form the sanctions should take. Many have then used the words intelligently or cleverly, and that is the kind of thinking I also make myself a spokesman for. It makes no sense that the ruler can almost fall into uninhibited luxury and secure most of the benefits, while parts of the civilian population suffer in a terrible way. I don't have the answer. But I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, approached the issue with an open mind. We will support him in that further, and we hope that in the work that Norway can do through its role in the Security Council, he will be able to go into a sorting of sanctions, so that they will hit those they are going to hit, not innocent and third-party. I think this is also crucial for the UN to have in future conflicts where there may be a need to intervene against human rights violations, dramatic attacks approaching genocide, and other serious crimes, a tool that can stand up, even for the expost test. There is no doubt that the United Nations system has been tested in many ways, and it has, as the speaker before me was in, in some contexts failed in a very serious way. Those of us who followed the war in Bosnia will never forget what happened in Srebrenica – we will never forget it. When both reports have been seen over and over and over again, some of those who were responsible for management in this situation, it is clear that these kinds of challenges need to be taken into account, and this is particularly related to how to reform the UN device. I know that Norway has previously focused on reforming the apparatus to lead the military operations of the United Nations, and I assume that it is still in focus. In its time it was almost such that one could not intervene in these operations after office hours, because then the staff had gone home. Having a minimum of an apparatus that military leaders dare to trust is a prerequisite for the United Nations to have any kind of authority in relation to peace-making operations, which I regret to be convinced will be needed in the coming years. A few days ago, we discussed human rights here in the Grand Duchy, with broad consensus on important points. But there is reason to remember that although this is not formally on the Security Council's agenda as such, it must be underlying throughout the work. And what's important in that context is perhaps to focus on the human rights abuses committed against women in connection with wars and conflicts. There's often a lot of rawness. The use of e.g. Raped as a weapon we have seen in the former Yugoslavia and elsewhere. Lifting this up, I think, is important. Also, in relation to the international debate on forced marriage and genocide, I think it is important to add a concept that goes on in parts of the world not only 'ethnocid', but also 'gendercide'. In other words, there are countries and areas where killing newborn babies is part of public policy, and it is a consequence of practical policy in many countries. Focusing on it as far as you can is important. I know that Norway has done so bilaterally in many ways, including: in relation to land on the Indian subcontinent, to express me that way. But I think that is a perspective we should also have with us in the work of the Security Council. In conclusion, I want to focus on how we behave in areas that will eventually be focused, perhaps especially in our part of the world, and that is how we manage our entire immigration policy. The left is fully convinced that with the type of economy that Norway has, we are totally dependent on having an orderly form of labour immigration to Norway. Then it's important that we sort this out in such a way that it can be seen as socially fair, respect international conventions and exist almost independently of economic fluctuations around us. I have in previous rounds with other members of the government Stoltenberg, among others. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, confirmed that the Labour Party Government is willing to think more openly about this than it has done before, and has found that the Labour Party Government here has been closer to the Left and the other centre parties than the Progress Party. I will see that as a positive development, but it also imposes on us a responsibility, with the search light on us when we sit on the UN Security Council. I'll finish where I started. A valuable effort was made to get us in this place, we all have a responsibility to take responsibility when we are there, and I perceive that the Foreign Minister in his statement has just invited us to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e557	Realistic, humiliated and ambitious was the representative Blankenborg's description of the Government's arrangements for the work of the UN Security Council as of 1 January. The work of the Security Council must be results-oriented, and we must build confidence. In trusting work, it is not least to have a good dialogue with tone-provoking and regionally strong representatives of the so-called G77 group. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned in his statement South Africa and India in this regard. I think that's a wise policy. Contact with India is also important given the situation in South Asia, where Kashmir is a ticking bomb, and where we also have an unruly regime in Afghanistan. A real challenge for the UN as an organisation and for the Security Council in the coming years is the development of Africa, which many have experienced. In previous debates here in the Chamber, we have stressed that we need to focus on Africa at large, normalise – if you want – relations with Africa, ranging from increased trade via debt to conflict resolution and assistance. I believe it is important that Norway in the Security Council tries to contribute to long-term conflict prevention work in Africa. It is again closely linked to poverty reduction, development and targeted assistance. I am aware that the Women's Movement of the Workers' Party towards the Minister for Foreign Affairs has highlighted the need to focus on the situation of women both in the development work and in the prevention and resolution of conflicts. I would also like to point out that the Foreign Affairs Committee in its statement on the Human Rights Action Plan underlines that Norway, as a member of the UN Security Council, must contribute to increasing awareness of the humanitarian and human rights effects of conflicts. Poverty in the world is feminized. Two thirds of the world's poor are women. The dramatic spread of HIV and AIDS also affects women, not least in Africa. Hundreds of thousands of women die as a result of pregnancy, births and illegal abortions. Gender mutilation or female circumcision is a major health and development problem. This also applies to the issue of coercion, which was also raised by the representative Odd Einar Dørum, and which should also form the basis, as well as issues related to the death penalty and elementary human rights of women. In addition, 90 is pst. by those struck in the new wars, the civilian population. This has been reinforced in the many conflicts based on ethnic contradictions, conflicts that are either internal civil wars or regional conflicts. I believe it is important to strengthen the UN's peacekeeping and peace-building role and ensure the United Nations' authority in this area, especially in Africa. The UN is the only organisation that can trust enough to play such a role. I have noticed that the Foreign Minister also stresses the need to strengthen the regional African organisations so that African countries themselves, together with the UN, can take responsibility for conflict prevention. Strengthening skills and capacity is important here. Not unexpectedly, the sanctions against Iraq have been addressed in this debate. Penalties must always be assessed on the basis of their purpose and effect. If sanctions have unintended effects, affect the civilian population and do not function as intended, it is both right and necessary to change them. That is the case today with the sanctions against Iraq, which must be replaced by measures that are more targeted and which protect the weakest groups, largely the civilian population, especially the children of Iraq. Finally, when the Stortinge dealt with reforms in the UN system, the Foreign Affairs Committee submitted a levy on foreign exchange transactions as an additional source of income to the World Organisation. Norway has to follow up on this. Norway also needs to remain strongly involved in the necessary reform work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e579	Let me first say that I am very pleased with the broad consensus that has been in the debate here today. It was a national task to get Norway into the Security Council, with three governments working with it. And I want to say it this way: it's a national task to make sure that we can work well there. Therefore, there should be close contact between government and grossing up all the way over the next two years. Lisbet Ruchtvedt said that the government should facilitate a broad public debate. I also think that is very important, but I want to add that it is also important that we have a realistic view of what the Security Council is and what we can do there. We need to be realistic, but still have ambitions. But we need to be aware of two things, firstly, that the basis of the Security Council is Chapters VI and VII of the United Nations Charter. Lisbet Rugtvedt asked to what extent Norway will be concerned with disarmament issues in the Security Council. We will be as far as it stands on the agenda, but disarmament issues are generally dealt with by the General Assembly and not by the Security Council. Sometimes you have, for example: the control of small arms and landmines has been linked to UN operations, peacekeeping forces, as it enters the picture, and to the extent that it enters the picture in the context of the sanctions against Iraq, which are precisely justified on the control and destruction of weapons of mass destruction. But general disarmament policy is not on the agenda of the Security Council. Lisbet Rugtvedt said that my statement lacked anything about reform of the Security Council, and also about the composition of the Security Council. It is not on the agenda of the Security Council, it is the task of the General Assembly to discuss and adopt under the UN Charter. It is not the Security Council that determines the composition of the Security Council, nor how the Security Council should work, it is the General Assembly that does under the UN Charter. The other thing I want to point out is the veto right. There are five major powers that have veto right there. There are no decisions or resolutions that can pass the Security Council without the agreement of the five countries. That is why it is perfectly obvious that anything should be achieved in the Security Council, so you have to work with them. If you intend to sit there and promote resolutions, I would say that such resolutions will never pass without the agreement of the five veto acts. Having said that, I would also like to say that within those frameworks we can contribute a lot and perhaps also in a significant way. Then I think it is important that Norway takes on the good traditions that we have foreign policy. I would like to point out three important traditions, first of all our humanitarian work. I would say that Norway is a humanitarian act, not only because we are doing a great deal of humanitarian action in the face of disasters, not only because we have a high percentage of aid, a large amount of aid in many parts of the world, especially in Africa, but also because we have been at the forefront in this respect, for example. combating landmines. We are now in the front line, along with Canada, as we did in the land mine, in controlling small arms, which is the most humanitarian issue. We have to take care of this tradition. The second tradition is the strong interaction that we have always had with civil society and civil organisations. And the third is our many experiences in peacekeeping forces. As I said in my presentation, the UN now needs a broad strategy, firstly, to prevent conflicts, secondly, to stop conflicts, and, possibly, after doing so, to create real peace. Then you need a broad strategy that combines just these things that I now said: humanitarian aid, long-term assistance, control of small arms and landmines, peacekeeping forces and the building of a civil society. And I want to say that what Marit Nybakk pointed out, the role of women here, is incredibly important. I want to look at the values of women and the role of women in many countries as a real bearer of peace and building a civil society. That's exactly why there should be an important arrow in our work. So to the sanctions. Several have mentioned the need to get more targeted, sophisticated and smart sanctions, and that is a view I fully share. But I agree with Mr Petersen, who said that there should be a nuanced debate here also on how the sanctions have actually worked. Yugoslavia was mentioned. It was, after all, that the civilian population was tired of the isolation of world society, which led to rebellion and democracy. With regard to Iraq, it is not obvious that Saddam Hussein would have been weaker today if the sanctions had not been there. Einar Steensnæs said that it is unclear which initiatives Norway will take, we have just said that it is necessary to look at the sanctions policy towards Iraq. Yes, it is a little unclear now, precisely because we have not yet started working on it, and also because Thorvald Stoltenberg, who was appointed by the UN Secretary-General to enter the country to see how this has worked, has not been given the opportunity to come in – and that is very regrettable. So we have to start work on the Sanctions Committee before we can say what can be done. But about the sanctions, I want to say the following: These sanctions were not in place to overthrow Saddam Hussein, but because he would not comply with the UN's demand to destroy biological and chemical weapons. When Lisbet Ruchtvedt says that Israel must now have a stronger claim to follow the UN decision, I fully agree with that, but I am equally firm that Saddam Hussein should do exactly the same, namely complying with the requirement to destroy biological and chemical weapons. That is the basis for the sanctions. The penalties include both financial penalties and weapons inspection. And it's quite clear that the weapons inspectors have been able to destroy significant amounts of biological and chemical weapons, so the sanctions have worked in that area. Although I also have concerns and believe that we need to look at the sanctions, I believe that it is not possible to say so that the sanctions have led to the humanitarian disaster, as you can really call it, in Iraq. The ratio is that it was pretty soon after the sanctions were introduced that Saddam Hussein would not comply with the UN's demand to destroy biological and chemical weapons, and therefore he deliberately subjected his own population to suffering for sympathy in the world community. It was in order to counteract this cynical exploitation of the civilian population that the ‘Olje for Food’ programme was launched in 1996. This programme has been extended later, and today there are no restrictions on the purchase of food, medicine, equipment for education, agriculture and water supply to Iraq. There is no doubt that the civilian population is suffering, but it is because Iraq is not using the opportunities it has to buy these necessary things for the civilian population, even if they can. As to whether or not to take over the leadership of the Sanctions Committee for Iraq, the leadership of that committee is not a position to change the sanctions. The Sanctions Committee for Iraq shall implement the sanctions adopted by the Security Council. If we are to change the sanctions, it must be done in the Security Council itself. I would say that we want to work for a sanction regime that better secures the civilian population, while maintaining the pressure to get rid of the chemical and biological weapons. What changes and improvements it is possible to make is too early to say something about now, simply because we have not started work in the Security Council. Thorvald Stoltenberg has not escaped into the country. We hope he can do that. But only then do we have an opportunity to say what improvements and changes are possible. Finally, I just want to say: Steensnæs said something very important, that one should not deprioritize the work in the peace processes elsewhere in the world because of our commitment to the Security Council. It's precisely because of the work we've done in many places, that we got to sit in the Security Council, and that makes us have a good basis for doing a good job there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e616	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs used so much of his intervention to answer some of the questions that came during the debate, even though they were obviously so many that he did not cross everyone aside of course also to make new recordings. There was a passus in his post that I, for my part, noticed, and as I think was a confirmation of what was also important to me in my post, namely that Norway has a special opportunity with our humanitarian traditions, our position and our trust as we have experienced it in different parts of the international community, to play an active role despite our modest size. And the Foreign Minister himself mentioned some good examples in which Norway has been able to play a good, active role, such as: in the case of landmines, small arms, cooperation with civil society, humanitarian organisations, in peacekeeping forces and assistance – that is one of the things he said. And these are good examples of what I think can form a very good starting point for our commitment to our important position in the Security Council. I am also pleased that, to the extent that he confirmed that the work of the Security Council should not be at the expense of important initiatives in which Norway has had and will still be able to play an active role, such as Sudan, Guatemala, Sri Lanka, Colombia, to mention something. I think that's very important. Finally, for Stortinget, I think it would be very interesting if we could also be actively involved in the interesting two-year period that is now coming. There will be a good forum for ‘the enlarged’, but also the plenary part-session will have a great interest in being actively involved. I would like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs what he thinks about how Stortinget can play an active role in this two-year period while we have membership of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e630	I fully agree with what Steensnæs now said that there must be a close interaction between government and big business. We both have the enlarged and we have the plenary, and I think it's also important to be able to have discussions here in plenary on important issues. Now there has been a lot of debate on the UN sanctions regime against Iraq. I think, for example, that we should be able to inform the Storting in an appropriate way about what steps we can take in this matter, after we have gone through and seen what is possible, and what contacts do we, of course, have to have with the Swedish Security Council. So there I think it is absolutely necessary to have a close contact and consultation with Stortinget. With regard to the more general sanctions policy and the reforms that can be made there, I think it may be necessary to come to the Stortingen with a presentation to get a debate in plenary. The two-year period into which we are now going should be used to put important issues in focus, so that we can use this period together here to also increase our own competence, both in government and in growth, and not least to bring about a more active external debate. But as has been noted here, it's not that easy to get much interest in this in the press as long as there's not big, controversial issues, it's only when there's a debate. But I think I can promise that there will be a good deal of controversial issues that Norway has to decide on during this two-year period. And it can be a good thing, in particular, that there will be an increased debate on foreign policy issues in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e639	The Brahimi report is very important. There's a lot of good stuff in it, where one really takes the consequences of a big failure that the United Nations has done, which has demonstrated for example. in Srebenica. But there is a clear lack in that report, so I want to ask the Foreign Minister that it be presented to Stortinget in such a way that we can discuss it. Elles, I am glad that the Foreign Minister has given so much attention to Africa. Africa's coming after. Despite 40 years of development aid, there are many times worse today than there were 40 years ago. In my view, however, the Minister of Foreign Affairs uses some old-fashioned wording in his orientation, where he, for example, used to do so. talk about putting the main emphasis on poverty reduction. When I was in the United Nations earlier in the fall, I thought it was positive that those who have now gone a step further, where they attacked the root of poverty, the root of oppression and of dissatisfaction, and the root of children being abused in a completely meaningless way, etc. - Easy mismanagement. Vanity is Africa's main problem. Both the World Bank, the UNDP – the United Nations Development Programme – and the United Nations focus on what they now call ‘good governance’. I think it's very important that we also help to focus on it. In this context, it was also recognised that development aid has partly contributed to making possible the disorder we see in Africa, because it gave the rulers something to show the people, so that they could only sour and waste with their own resources in a terrible way. So I think it's important that we are realistic enough here to walk in ourselves and admit that part of what we've done has been contrary to what we've been doing, and that we've been with and led Africa into the mess that the continent is today. We have a good portion of idealism in Norway, but sometimes it's also combined with naivety, and then the result can be very unfortunate for those who are exposed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e652	I can promise here and now that all the issues raised in the so-called Brahimi report will be presented to the Stortinget. It is a very important report, including for Norway, as we have participated so much and extensively in peacekeeping operations. The report deals with the possibilities for strengthening and improving the planning and implementation of UN peacekeeping operations, for which we have seen clear weaknesses. I also fully agree with what Godal said when it comes to combating poverty. Clearly, we need to have a broader perspective on this. There is no doubt that the lack of democracy and respect for human rights, corruption, at all, is a cause for a lack of development in a wide range of countries. That is why I am pleased with the debate we had this week on the human rights plan. We also want to link aid policy more clearly to the development of human rights. For example, we saw this in relation to Zimbabwe. We cut out our aid to the government there as a result of the developments we saw when it came to human rights. Another aspect that I think is important is that investment and trade are far more important than aid. It's not like I'm calling for help to be cut off, on the contrary, but it has to be an interaction, where private investment and trade are provided for, because that's all that creates jobs and development and also after every human right in a wide range of countries. So I fully agree that we need to get greater scope in our commitment to development. It's incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e661	Norway joins the Security Council at a time when the United Nations economy is in crisis. It has also been for quite a long time. One of the main reasons for this is that the United States does not meet its financial obligations. Now, the economic issues are not so central to the Security Council's agenda, but this is, in any case, an important UN issue. Former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland in his time said crystal clear from what she thought about the infallibility sins – to call it that – as the only remaining superpower showed up on this issue. I hope that the sitting government can also show up in this in the same way. The question of financing the United Nations economy has now also been raised in the context of a proposal on the levying of currency transactions, a question which, incidentally, Marit Nybakk has just raised. This question has previously been raised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on various occasions, but I am left with the impression that there has been a rather turbulent situation on this matter for quite a long time, and it could therefore be of interest to hear what status this issue now has in the Government. I am asking the very specific question of whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs could follow up on a proposal that has been made here in Stortinget earlier, namely that one from Norway is taking an initiative towards other Nordic countries in order to create a basis for this to be something more than the soluble plans that we have now seen, which have been launched on different occasions, but which have so far come out of very little concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e668	It is absolutely right that the United States has not settled its obligations with respect to the United Nations. We have re-examined this with the United States — that is also the case with the current government. Now there's been some work to clear this up, and others have shown interest in a compromise, which the Clinton administration has also looked at. I hope I can keep going under the new administration as well. But it's a little uncertain who's being elected, and what kind of UN policy a new president in the United States will lead. Clearly, there was a trend in the United States' view of the United Nations, support for the United Nations, and, eventually, willingness to settle its obligations. It came in parallel that the UN was increasingly able to play a role, which I think was related to the fact that we got a Secretary-General who was willing to make courageous decisions, launch a reform process and also play the UN actively on the ground on several occasions, including. in the case of Iraq, which we have been talking about here. We've seen it in the Middle East in the last few weeks and months, which is very happy. With regard to the levy on foreign exchange transactions, we clearly support the proposal that is being made. It is an important proposal, such as: can contribute to better financing of the UN. We have support from the EU and Canada, but no one else supports this. But we continue to work on it, and working with the other Nordic countries to see what initiatives can be taken is also an important part of the Norwegian government's work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e675	The Secretary of State says that it is not obvious that Saddam Hussein had been weaker in Iraq without sanctions. Of course it is not obvious. But without the comprehensive sanctions, people in Iraq would stand stronger. That has to be the most important point. The preconditions for a political opposition in Iraq would have been better if one had not had the humanitarian conditions you now have. It goes without saying that when a population has to spend all its time and all its energy to meet the most basic needs when there is so much grief and misery as a result of increasing child mortality, for example, it goes beyond the ability to engage in political activity, as well as, of course, all the restrictions that lie in the fact that Iraq is a dictatorship. So the Foreign Minister says that there are no restrictions on the purchase of food, medicine, educational equipment, etc. to Iraq. Here I think the Foreign Minister gives an inaccurate picture. Because isn't it that all the things that are going into Iraq are subject to a nine-time assessment of whether each thing can be used in any way to produce biological or chemical weapons? As I see it, a lot of imagination is also used to imagine how the different things can somehow be used in such a production. It is precisely these procedures and assessments that have been such a headache for those who sit and manage this committee. And I also realize that that's what Norway is really worried about: having to sit and manage if we get leadership for the committee. It is also a little unclear what the Minister for Foreign Affairs really thinks in the conclusion on the sanctions. I would like to have a clear answer as to whether the Government will or will not work to change the sanctions against Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e682	It is not good to say what would have happened if the sanctions had not been there. On the other hand, the question then has to be asked: What would the world community have done? Would you have just invented that you could continue to produce biological and chemical weapons, which were a threat to the entire world peace? That's why the sanctions came. You didn't have any other tools, if you weren't willing to go to the extreme step, to which I haven't heard anyone really was willing. On the basis of the UN Charter, there are no instruments other than sanctions. They've worked that way, after all, you've got a good part of these biological and chemical weapons. Then the humanitarian question remains. Neither is it good to say whether the situation of the civilian population would have been significantly better if the sanctions had not been there. What you could say is that the situation for the civilian population would have been significantly better if you had used the money you have available by selling oil to buy food, medicine and other equipment to keep basic things going. There are formally no restrictions in those areas. It's true, as Lisbet Rughtvedt says, that the UN Sanctions Committee has the task of checking that the money is spent just for that. But one cannot have a sanction regime without also a control regime to verify that the sanctions are actually applied. I can't say anything else now than what I said, that we want to work for a sanction regime that takes into account the civilian population, while maintaining the pressure and the requirement to destroy chemical and biological weapons. It is too early for us to say what we can achieve, what changes it is possible and necessary to implement. We can't say that until we have taken a seat in the Security Council, and preferably after Thorvald Stoltenberg has been evaluated this question, but he won't let go into the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e691	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e694	It is exciting and challenging that Norway now has its seat in the Security Council. There's a lot of opinions about what to do. Many have given advice, and there is also commitment outside this hall. The work of the Security Council will vitalise the foreign policy debate at home, not least the peace exposure, and hopefully also strengthen the willingness to provide assistance. I am very pleased with the signals that have come from the Foreign Minister and others about Iraq. Penalties policy has not worked as intended. Iraq policy has failed. Saddam Hussein sits safely, and millions of civilians are inhumanly affected. I strongly disagree with Madeleine Albright, who says that 570,000 dead children are worth the price. The Americans are being pushed from all sides, and the sanctions are falling in their present form. Iraq was before the sanctions the most well-developed society in the Arab world. After the wars and sanctions, the country has completely collapsed. The whole infrastructure is broken, the hospitals aren't working, the water supply isn't working. Schools and libraries are bombed and burned. The classrooms are without furniture and books. Pencils were hit by the sanctions because the lead could be used for weapons. That's 50-75 pst. unemployment. It's brain fluttering. The resource forces have left the country. Production has stopped. There is neither raw material nor spare parts. The food provides incorrect and undernourished food. Children and young people do not grow normally. And the sewer drips onto the operating table. Infectious diseases and diarrhoea are the major cause of death among children. Infants simply dry out. Other forms of cancer are common, including: because uranium ammunition has been used, as used in Kosovo. Many children are born with great injuries and malformations. What's the point of punishing an innocent civilian population for ten years? I've been there, I've seen it, and I've been talking to them. Being able to do this is one of the worst things I've ever been to. Saddam Hussein is a despotic dictator who kills his own, but the sanctions also kill. This is due to a lack of water and clean water, a lack of spare parts, technical equipment and hospital equipment and a damaged ventilation system in hospitals at 40 degrees Celsius. There's a shortage of professionals, doctors, engineers and nurses. It is not possible to prevent disease and epidemics. The opposition in the country is either killed, imprisoned or has fled. There are thousands of war damage and political prisoners. Those who are left are too hungry and too sick to fight. They've slipped into apathy. Today, two environments in Iraq are the main sources of opposition to Saddam Hussein. It is those who stand in the increasing Islamization, religious fanatics and extremists. Another option is the 'embargo generation', which has grown up under the sanctions, and is driven by hatred and aggression against the West. For them even Hussein can become too moderate. How do you imagine that democratic forces should have some chance in such a situation? In addition, we have the Kurdish question, which also has to be solved. I am concerned with the results, that something can actually happen with the sanctions soon, and that Norway is working intensively and focused on this in the Security Council. I agree with Blankenborg that, of course, Hussein will still be a major problem when the sanctions are lifted, which is not least the issue of exilira. But you could, for example, put more energy into enforcing the weapons boycott. There's someone who sells weapons to Saddam Hussein, probably also from Western countries. The message to the Minister of Foreign Affairs is crystal clear: Fight in the Security Council to lift the sanctions in their present form, because they also violate fundamental human rights! The policy has been misguided. It has 20 million. Iraqis paid for. I would like – and encourage – to see more policymakers and others go to Iraq and self-esteem assess the situation there. While we are waiting for action in the Security Council, we should break the isolation and establish contacts in Iraq. The Iraqi people will have huge problems in the future for a long time, and it needs our support now. The U.D. should open the wallet for that type of contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e717	Norway is a small country in a peaceful corner of the world. We're a rich country. Suffering if we also have our problems and challenges, there is no doubt that we belong to the absolute upper class of the world. Then we have a choice. We can decide that we want wealth for ourselves, we can cut the aid by DKK 2.5 billion, as the Right has suggested, or – even worse – we can cut the aid by NOK 6.6 billion, as the Progress Party has proposed. We can choose such an attitude, and we can also not engage in the situation in other countries, perhaps except the nearest ones. We can say, we don't care about that. The parties who want to cut the aid are on the march in Norway. But fortunately, a broad majority in the Biggest has chosen the opposite of such an isolation line. We have chosen the line of solidarity, precisely on the basis of a fundamental idea of solidarity, but also because we understand that on this globe we are ultimately all dependent on each other. So becoming a member of the UN Security Council is an incredibly exciting challenge for Norway, and I hope that means that we will have more room for a foreign policy debate here in the country. We've seen tendency to it already, and I hope that evolution continues. One of the foreign policy issues that has been raised on the agenda as it approaches voting in the UN is sanctions policy against Iraq. It is a question that also concerns me, among other things. with the background that I am with, among other things, Representative Inger Lise Husøy was on a trip to Iraq in June of this year under the auspices of the Joint Committee of Palestine. After ten years of sanctions, it has become increasingly clear that sanctions policy primarily affects the civilian population, not Saddam Hussein's regime. On the contrary, there is much to suggest that both Saddam Hussein's regime and the fundamentalist forces in Iraq have been strengthened by sanctions policies, because they can be blamed on the West and on the world community. I agree that it is not just the sanctions that cause the collapse of the Iraqi economy and the suffering it has caused to the civilian population. The situation in Iraq is now a result of first ten years of war and war economy, so ten years of sanctions combined with Saddam Hussein's regime. The sanctions policy against Iraq, which has also been discussed by others, was the subject of the National Labour Party meeting, and a clear decision was taken that Norway must work to replace today's financial sanctions against Iraq with measures that are more effective against Saddam Hussein's regime. I'm glad it's a majority in Stortinget that supports this line. We're still excited about which committee Norway is set to lead. Former UN coordinator for Iraq, Hans von Sponeck, has, among other things: During a visit to Norway, Norway invited it to take on the position of Head of the Sanctions Committee for Iraq and also to invest financial resources to do a good job. No matter what kind of committee we're going to lead, it's important that Norway now comes back to the weakest side, and that we are working for economic and democratic development in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e728	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 544]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e742	In short: in Norwegian aid policy and in the case of humanitarian aid in particular, government and enlargement benefit from the considerable competence of Norwegian organisations. The two largest organizations in this regard, namely the Red Cross and the Emergency Aid of the Church, report that this year they have experienced considerable cuts in their assistance. It is highlighted in letters from the Foreign Affairs Committee to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and is included as an attachment to the suspension. A unanimous committee refers to a letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs v/Minister for Development of 13 November stating that there will be extra funds available as a result of reduced ODA-approved shares of refugee expenditure in Norway, and concludes on the basis of the changes proposed by the Government in the budget of the year. Then we might get back to the problem raised to the department in the letter with regard to the two organizations, whichever is the content of the announced proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e749	Quite briefly, in part as a comment also on the question of the role of organisations, on which the representative Steensnæs was just talking. In recent years, natural disasters have been greater and more frequent than in the past. This has led to an increased need for humanitarian aid, with subsequent increased pressure on natural disasters. In the current year, the floods in southern Africa and the drought on the Horn of Africa have seized some 130 million. kr. Part of this assistance is covered by the use of the NORAD regional allocation. At the end of September, less than 4 million remained. kr for use in natural disasters for the current year. Other major and ongoing natural disasters, such as the drought in Kenya, Tanzania, West and Central Asia and the floods in south and south-east Asia, require reinforced efforts by the Norwegian side. To remedy this situation, the Government of St.prp proposed. No 5 to strengthen the natural disaster budget by 45 million. kr. In the same proposal, it was also proposed to increase humanitarian aid appropriations by 53.2 million. kr. This is linked to major humanitarian needs, especially in Africa, where the number of refugees and internally displaced persons has increased considerably. In Latin America, support for Colombia needs to be stepped up in the light of Norway’s commitment to the peace process. As a result of the ongoing reconciliation process, it is desirable to increase assistance to North Korea. At the same time, there is a great need in other parts of Asia and the Middle East. As announced in our letter to the Foreign Affairs Committee of 1 November 2000, the three main humanitarian channels for Norwegian aid, the UN, the Norwegian Red Cross and the Church's Emergency Aid, will be given priority in the context of the increased humanitarian appropriations. Of the proposed appropriations in St. Prp. No 5 Norway's Red Cross and the Church's Emergency Aid will well be allocated 15 million. kr each. Thus, support for humanitarian measures outside the OSCE area through Norway’s Red Cross and the Church’s Emergency Aid will be almost at the level of 1999. The need to prioritize the United Nations as a humanitarian channel was underlined in the humanitarian statement to the United Kingdom in January 1999, and the current government continues this line. I have also underlined this in dialogue with the voluntary organisations. For 1999, the United Nations share of humanitarian budgets outside the OSCE area was around 43 p.m. and per year. Today, the percentage of the United Nations is below 40 pst. On top of 60 pst. Of the humanitarian resources outside the OSCE area, therefore, go through channels other than the UN, and Norway’s Red Cross and the Church’s Emergency Aid are among the largest. In order to give the best possible picture of the situation, I would also refer to the proposition Steensnæs just mentioned. The government is presenting St.prp today. No 29 for 2000-2001, with proposals to reallocate an additional 120.9 million. kr in addition to the changes referred to in St.prp. No 5th@item: Here the budget for aid for natural disasters is proposed, reinforced by 30 million. NOK 35 million is proposed. to promote human rights, humanitarian aid and refugee action. As a result of the exceptional situation that has arisen in the Palestinian region, the Government proposes 20 million. kr to bet in the Middle East. The government will strengthen its response to HIV/AIDS and proposes that the allocation for this purpose be increased by 10 million. kr. In St. prp. No In addition, the Government places emphasis on supporting democratic developments in Yugoslavia and on supporting projects related to the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. The government is proposing a 20-million-dollar plugin. kr for cap. 0192 entry 71 covering grants to the ODA-approved Balkan countries and other ODA-approved OSCE countries. And then I'd like to come back to a further discussion about the role of Norwegian humanitarian organisations, which I also want to get back to in a broader context in connection with the presentation to spring. Because I also fully agree that these organisations play a very important role in Norwegian development work and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e772	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 545]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e786	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 545]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e800	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the submissions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e811	Today, the Storting deals with a very important matter for one of our future industries. Statkorn Holding ASA shall be developed into a so-called fully integrated company in the aquaculture industry. Country cereals are already between the largest feed producers in the world and will now be strongly integrated into the aquaculture industry even at the level of farming. The Committee has been divided into a broad majority of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party. The Party of Progress and the Right is opposed to the capital extension and wants the State to sell out of the company. The centre party and the left have a somewhat different premise against State participation in the capital extension, but is combined with the majority when it comes to future concession policy. The government has previously decided that the company should be privatised and that the State can sell down to 51 pst. Today, the state ownership is 80 pst. With the decisions we make today, an absolute limit is set. The State ownership shall not be less than 34 pst. The marine industry is growing. Hydro Seafood was sold out of the country. With Statkorn we have the opportunity to secure a solid Norwegian company that can help to develop the industry. by strengthening research efforts and enhancing competence. State cereals have found it advisable to enter a breeding company in several other countries and have contracts to purchase companies, etc. in Chile and Canada. Independent reports suggest that the value of the company will increase after such an investment. For Statkorn to be able to execute the agreed investments, they are dependent on capital. There are, therefore, proposals for a capital extension aimed at today's owners of SEK 1.5 billion. The state's part of this is going to be $12 billion. Independent reports suggest that this will be a good investment and that the value of the state-owned part will gradually increase as the company is better established in the aquaculture industry. It is also important that the State acts as a professional owner in relation to the private investors that have already announced their participation. The Christian People's Party and the plurality have therefore, after an overall assessment, found it right to subscribe to the proposal for the capital extension. One of the premises of the capital extension is that the state will subsequently sell itself down from today's 80 pst. ownership and down towards 34 pst. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important that it becomes part of the constitution that the state should own at least 34 pst. It is the only guarantee we can have that the head office, and therefore the strategy development, is in Norway, and that the company will remain Norwegian. The Christian People's Party is busy ensuring a national and local anchoring of the aquaculture industry. The size has previously come to an end in the research report that the marine sector should be one of four main areas of activity. The Christian People's Party believes it is very important to strengthen efforts for research and development in the aquaculture industry. A new statkorn must assume a primary responsibility for research in the industry, both through its own research and as strategic alliances for small and medium-sized enterprises in the industry. The Christian People's Party and the majority believe it is important for the development of the Norwegian aquaculture industry that a stronger industrial environment is developed, and that the environment of competence is strengthened. It is also important that communication and cooperation between the areas of competence we have before the industry are improved. The aim is to establish cooperation between different commercial operators in the industry and to improve cooperation between the fisheries and agricultural competence environment in order to produce synergies. A fully integrated Statkorn Holding must be able to act as an industrial driver in the development of the Norwegian biomarine industry. The marine industry is developing. Many small businesses and families sell their concessions to larger companies. The government provided the State budget with new concessions to be awarded next year to be distributed on the basis of the auction principle. Together with the Workers' Party and with the support of the Centre Party and the Left, we have come up with a better solution. The auctioning principle is deleted. Instead, we need to look at several other options, such as: a flat fee or rent tax. A second-hand turnover charge may also be applicable. It will open the industry far more than the auction will. With a levy, those who operate well can manage, while with auctioning they will be those with capital that is awarded by new concessions, not those with a local connection. Now the ministry must work thoroughly, but quickly on this matter and then come back to the Storting in its own way. In the forthcoming planned round of awards, first-row concessions shall be given to the small players in the industry who already have one or two concessions. In addition, the plurality will open up to founders and new actors who want to enter the industry. One should also take into account areas that are well suited to aquaculture but which have received a few concessions on previous allocation rounds. Today, we also have some schools that teach aquaculture. Schools that need their own concession to improve their education needs their own concession. It has also been a major part of this debate that we do not need a company with strong government capital to buy up the players that are currently in the industry. I would like to remind you that the basis for this capital expansion is to go badly internationally, mainly in Canada and Chile. Yesterday the Nutrition Committee was on a study tour in Eastfold, not only in border trade, as it may look like in the media today, but to look at more forward-looking industries. What goes on again is that the industries that are internationalising have also largely managed to become viable industries. According to the Christian People's Party's view, it is important that in the areas where we are going to be heavy and big as an industrial nation in the future, we have to internationalize ourselves. Then it's also important to have some locomotives within the industries where we know that the future can be secured in such a way that we have a national ownership, a national strategy and a national head office. So it's not to mess with small concessions that this company gets a capital increase. It is not to destroy the local structure that this capital extension comes, but it is to act as a professional owner and enable the company to solve the tasks they have internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e842	It is interesting to note that the Christian People's Party has made marriage with the Workers' Party in this matter and separates layers with the other centermates on important and vital points. It amazes many, and it amazes very many Christian People's Party electors, especially in District Norway. We have many small players out there who do well in this business, stand on their own feet without burdening anyone else and would like to do so in the future as well. Many of the Christian People's Party's voters do not understand that the Christian People's Party will contribute SEK 1.2 billion in state capital to build a colossus in this area. What you fear, and rightly so in the opinion of the Progress Party, is that whether you like it or not, it will mean a centralisation of this activity and a capital concentration that District Norway is not served with. What we see is that we also have some major actors in the districts, but these complement each other well on the private side, and there is no need for such a colossus, is what you hear unisonably from District Norway. Has the Christian People’s Party now changed its program in this area of being district friendly to its own voters and actors in the districts? How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e849	I have to wonder a little bit about the analysis and definition that the representative Hedstrom here had of what is a marriage. The fact that one agrees with someone about important matters in civil matters, I have never understood is the same thing as marrying the one with whom the agreements are concluded. So here I think that the representative Hedstrom needs a certain amount of adult education in relation to what getting into a marriage is for something. So to the question of whether we've changed our program. No, of course we don't. The Christian People's Party believes in a private involvement in business. At the same time, we don't have fear of state. We have said for quite a long time that in the areas where we are going to be heavy in the future, it is also natural that we have Norwegian companies with Norwegian headquarters and Norwegian ownership. We got a clear demonstration with Hydro Seafood that it wasn't enough just that the state was inside, but that we also needed to have it in the statutes and in the purposes, like here. So we're going to go in for this. So this company should not primarily raid small concessions in the districts. On the contrary, this company must be able to become a partner that brings together both new research knowledge and new market knowledge, which can also be used by the small ones internationally. I mean this is an example of an actual taking a district industry like this industry seriously, when in this case we enter into a strategic alliance with the Labour Party in an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e860	The representative Lilletun has gone over to the purest tongue in the issue of Statkorn Holding's capital expansion. I must be allowed to ask myself if Lilletun has at all been involved in what kind of business idea this whole capital expansion is built on. It is built on the very opposite of what Mr Lilletun is speaking from the Stortinget pulpit here today. He says that capital expansion is primarily justified by the need for greater international involvement. No, the international exposure represents only one third of this giant state-funded muscle that is also going into the Norwegian market. A site will be used between 5 and 6 billion kroner, in Norway two thirds and one third abroad. He also uses the concept that there is a need to enable the company to ‘capture’ tasks. There is no capital shortage in Norwegian aquaculture at these times. I actually thought that even the Christian People's Party had been able to perceive, once you've seen this industry's development in the last ten years. It becomes quite pathetic when we see that the Christian People's Party did not lift a finger when the state majority-owned Hydro made sure that Hydro Seafood was flagged out of the country with its 200 direct and indirect owned farming concessions. So we're going to have to repeat our success now in a gigantic state capitalist-funded venture. How can Lilletun defend the fact that it is now time to ride up the coast and move ownership, governance and capital from the coast into the capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e869	I record that the representative of Kristiansen believes that there is competence and knowledge about the cases that are lacking at the Christian People's Party and at the representative of Lilletun. He must of course have the opportunity to mean that. I will try to explain what I meant when I said that a company must be able to solve the problems. So the state is inside a company that owns it. It is also private within this company as owners. The company has developed a strategy that independent consultants say is a strategy that is actually a good business idea, easy to internationalise and become an integrated company. This results in a monthly increase in value for the company. So a possibility would be to say that the state doesn't join. This means that one badly manages its needs according to the strategic goals it has seen. What kind of trust should private investors have in government co-ownership if not primarily a professional owner? For here one will also have taken great added value away from the private investors in this company. So this requires an increase in capital. One could have chosen another way. So here the company first went to its own owners, so that their own owners would get a share in the increase in capitalization. I thought that those who have acted professionally, and I also thought the size should do that. So I'm going to repeat again: there's no place in the proposition, there's no place in the setting that one of these is going to raid the small companies along the coast. On the contrary, the plural says it's not the goal. Of course, I expect the department to follow it up as a plural here says.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e878	I noticed that when Jon Lilletun finished reading his article, he needed to stress that this company would act largely internationally. I understand that it was part of internal medicine, because I assume, according to what is in the position, that this company should act nationally. When the Right is talking about tongues, I feel strongly that it is the Right who is speaking with tongues about a company that is going to raid upwards along the coast. This is a growth industry. It is clear that in a growth industry there will be strong participations that are ready to jump in. Strong participations are ready to buy up as there is a possibility to acquire market shares in this area. Then I expect and assume that the Christian People's Party also believes that Statkorn Holding should be used to be part of and structure in a sensible way if necessary, when strong participations are on the way up along the coast, in order to try to coordinate, to try to exploit the benefits that might exist. I think it is important that Lilletun emphasise this, so that it not only appears that this is a company to act in Chile and Canada, but that it also has and will have a role in the Norwegian aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e885	Yes, I can confirm that. Of course it should. And the reason why the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have a slightly different conclusion, even though the premises are quite similar, is, I think, that this company should be able, when there are concessions on the hall, to buy them up, just as well as the foreign-owned Nutreco, which is otherwise a brilliant company, and which of course is to be found here in this competition – with national ownership, national headquarters and national strategy. What's in the remainder I took, is related to the impression that a person is trying to create, that this company is going to be free of the small concessions, that they are going to sell almost against their will. Of course, I expect you to enter this market in a decent way, and that the main objective must be to establish strategic alliances, cooperation, etc. with the groups that already exist. That's the absolute reason. So I'd like to confirm what was in the representative of Reikvam's main question, that of course this company should be able to enter this market when it needs to, but at the same time I don't want this company – and this is made clear by the comments – to be a company that is perceived as being less friendly, to use the business language, compared to the small and medium-sized ones in District Norway. And I actually think that the representative Rikvam and I look at it quite equally.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e894	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e898	This case is about allowing Statkorn Holding to expand its business from being the world's largest fish feed producer to become a fully integrated breeding company. For this, Statkorn Holding needs a capital extension aimed at the current owners of SEK 1.5 billion. The state's part of this capital extension will be SEK 1.2 billion, then the state owns 80 pst. by Statkorn Holding no. Statkorn Holding was established to preserve and further develop the values that the State had deposited in its operations in the grain, mill and power feed industry in time of state monopoly. The aim of the company has been to achieve the highest possible return on the shareholders' invested capital. With 80 pst. State ownership is, therefore, the Norwegian people's money, essentially. In several ways, the state is criticized for being a bad owner. Developments have shown that Statkorn Holding makes professional judgements and takes decisions that protect its owners’ interests in a commercially defenceable way. It's obvious that it's falling apart heavy for the chest. In this sense, we just have to accept that there are ideological differences that determine whether or not the state is going to involve itself in business. I'm sure that if Statkorn Holding had done something else, the critical voices that are opposed to the State taking part in the extension of the share capital would also let themselves be heard, but then by using the case as an example of the state as a bad owner. Here is the old feminist slogan "damned if you do and damned if you don"t". I would further argue that Statkorn Holding is a good example of the interaction between state and private capital, which should become more of a future. The objective is to facilitate adequate national ownership of the most important future industries in the country. The aim is also to create a company that can be a driving force when it comes to creating a biomarine cluster in Norway. This is a bold task that will require ability to develop and cooperate in a long-term perspective. Many would argue that this could also be done by private operators, and I would not disagree with that. Of course they can, and they should. But it's just that there's a lot of people with a clear goal of taking on this driving role, that we can close. Marine farming is indicated as an economic region with a high potential. Norway has natural governments that will be able to secure our growth and value creation along our entire coast for years to come. It will be a premise that these developments are based on the ability of the sea, and that the actors in the industry are responsible for their environment, not least by maintaining and developing the social contract between those who have access to a scarcely good as a concession and the community. On a purely business level, the aim is to manage its values in a good way by rapidly building Statkorn Holding into a large and powerful, owner-in-law farming company in both the country and the country. An independent consultant report from Christiania Markets and KPMG, which was submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture on 11 September, clearly recommends that the State should participate in the capital extension. Here's what it says: ‘It is our clear recommendation that the State participates with its 80 % pro rata share in the corrected issue, in order to maximise the country’s values in the longer term. By not participating pro rata in the corrected issue, we believe the values of the State will be immediately diluted at this stage.» The plan is to sell down to 34 pst. ownership fast, including: to include a large Norwegian breeding company and pay with axles in Statkorn Holding. In this way, cooperation can be established with other long-term private actors. Ask if long-term nutritional behavior is decisive in my view. This point is a very important success factor, as the structure before the industry is in rapid change. It is decided that Statkorn Holding's strategic choices are business-driven, and that they act as a decent company with real ambitions to have a leading role in the development of the biomarine business cluster that we're going to have in Norway. The majority have made the following proposals: It must be established that the headquarters of the company is to be located in Norway – that is actually an independent point. It must be established that the State-owned part of the company must be at least 34 pst. It shall be established that the company has an active part to play in research and development in the marine and aquaculture sectors. I am pleased that we have reached a settlement with the Christian People's Party in this matter. It's at the intersection of the Workers' Party and the Centre that many of the best solutions for the country are in this field. Nevertheless, I am surprised to note that the Centerpartiet has agreed that Statkorn Holding can be a heavy player before Norwegian aquaculture, but only if the company refuses to act as other professional company, by not being able to purchase a majority in Norwegian breeding company for sale. It's going to be totally wrong. As a result, any other company can buy companies that are for sale, while Statkorn Holding does not have access to the same. This is impossible. The left is both for and against, for the state to have 34 p.m., but against the state being able to take out the value added that any private company would have done. Right and Advance Party is against and will rather sell Statkorn Holding. All in all, it is gratifying that a solid multiple expresses the idea that the state should be included as a heavy player in order to secure Norwegian ownership of the aquaculture industry, an important industry in the future. In the case of Proposal No. 4, from the representative Rolf Rikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, I have no problem joining it. It is obvious that all breeding companies must have an environmental strategy, including Statkorn Holding. Research efforts in the field of feed development will naturally be intensified to reduce the use of raw materials that could be consumed. There will be a challenge that this industry will face in the years to come, and that will only increase gradually as further processing becomes an important part of the development of marine values in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e956	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e959	It is clear that the Workers' Party wants to spend SEK 1.2 billion on public funds. In the first instance, the funds shall be used for a directed issue so that Statkorn Holding retains 80 pst. of the holdings. But it is also the intention of the Workers' Party at a later stage to obtain an exchange quotation, and that the State should own a minimum of 34 pst. in this company. It is also said that it is important to ensure national ownership, and that it can be done in cooperation with other, smaller Norwegian owners. However, Norway has acceded to the EEA Agreement, which means that, in the case of listed companies, it is not possible to have discriminatory legislation. So my question to the Tveiten representative is, how to secure national ownership, when 66 pst. of the holdings on the stock exchange and we have a non-discriminatory regulatory framework? We can actually experience that all of those 66 psts. purchased by non-resident owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e964	I would like to remind the representative Hedstrøm that in this case it is important for us to arrange for one to keep 34 pst. It's a negative multiple. That is, one of the major decisions will have to stick to what the shareholder gives way to. That's actually the answer to Hedstrom. Another thing is that the percentages that will be sold are limited. As long as it's not a seller, it doesn't help if it's a buyer, when 34 pst. actually become remaining on the state's hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e971	The representative Tveiten was very well prepared in his article. I think she deserves all credit for that. For she acknowledges, but not with very apologies, that there are ideological divisions in the Chamber on this issue, and argues from her point of view for the principle of active state involvement in both Norwegian and international business development. And Statkorn Holding falls into this terminology. I see that the ideological parallels are pretty clear. We have not dealt with the issue of IT fornebu a very long time ago, a clear ideological and political parallel, then with a slightly different political partnership from what you have been able to achieve today. But since Lilletun stressed in its statement that this did not involve any kind of national raid, despite the fact that the majority’s position clearly states that this ‘should not lead to the company raiding Norwegian concessions and contributing to more acquisitions of concessions than would otherwise have been the result’, my question to Tveiten is: Does it mean that it is not at all to spend NOK 3-4 billion on buying nationally from Norwegian concessions located in Coastal and District Norway? Or does that mean, as it says when it comes to the company's business ideas, that you have to be careful about using NOK 3-4 billion, or now a national production volume of 60 000 tonnes, which today will involve buying out, moving to the capital and managing a 100's concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e980	I will try to explain that what is the strategy is that the companies that may enter Statkorn Holding will be paid in the form of axles from Statkorn Holding – that means they will be in the same boat. That's the principle here. When it comes to the issue of raiding, it is stressed that this company should behave commercially decently. In the expression "raiding", I say that there should be some kind of pressure on operators in the industry, whether small or large, so that they are close to selling against their will. The point here is that Statkorn Holding, in line with other companies, should be able to buy in line with other market players. I don't see that there's going to be a rowing along the coast, and I think it's an unnecessary use of words to scare them along the coast -- now I don't think they're being particularly scared, because they're too tough and robust, because they're watery. But I don't think this debate is about someone emanating from this and talking about a raid along the coast -- at least I want to take a whole distance from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e987	I think this is a very special situation – we are discussing the future of the aquaculture industry, and the Minister for Fisheries is not in the Chamber. The Ministry of Fisheries has sent out only one press release in the autumn, which states that a defender of a proposal for the use of the auction principle, as the Workers' Party's national meeting totally rejected. This is what is going to be the most important industry in Norway in the future, and then it is treated as a matter of urgency because state grain has stumbled over an offer in Chile as they say gold is worth, and it is absolutely necessary for State grain to continue to do so quickly. The whole industry has reacted to what is happening, and they say it must not happen – they have warned us. They believe that the semi-stated company will be a threat to the structure that is built up and to the plans that exist. And the Workers' Party continues to believe that this industry will be governed by the Doris Day principle: what happens, what happens – what the directors come up with, it will be allowed to become policy. I think it's a pity, I think it's a terrible sin, and I think it's strange that it's not going to be possible to say in the form of decisions what I think should happen in this industry. If one believes that it is important that this company does not act like a raider, then it must be decided as well as a decision that the head office should be in Norway. Or is it that Rita Tveiten believes, like Lilletun, that the government will of course ensure that the state grain does not act like a raider, without being presented as anything other than a remark in a setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e998	It is underlined by the vast majority that a state-owned or state-owned company must act professionally. The strongest criticism I have experienced when it comes to companies with state ownership, has been that they have acted unprofessionally or as a bad owner. I think it's strange that when there's a company that's now showing that they're acting like a professional owner, it's crazy too. And I have to say that in the time that is now coming, I expect that Statkorn Holding will act as a responsible, decent company that wants to have a business performance that is full-fledged with the other company in this industry. I haven't heard that there are other companies that have been characterised as ‘raida’, it's an expression that has appeared now. When it comes to the future of the agricultural policy, the Stortingeet will be presented just over the New Year and it will be possible to discuss in full what conditions will be attached to this industry in the future. There's a debate that I think will arouse a lot of attention, and that many will engage in, which is what this industry is all about, and I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1009	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1012	Simply put, the government wants to make Statkorn Holding a strong, fully integrated company in the aquaculture industry with a national ownership. A targeted capital increase is proposed in the company where the State can participate by up to DKK 1.2 billion in order to maintain its ownership position by 80 pst. in the first instance. The Progress Party does not see it as a primary task for the public to participate in speculative business activities, but rather should concentrate on establishing good, long-term and predictable business framework conditions. Norway today has a much more dominant element of state ownership than other countries — yes, we are actually behind China in the privatisation process. Experience over the last 20 to 30 years has shown that the State is not suitable for business. On the contrary, business seems to flourish proportionally with politicians reducing their involvement. It should not be a public task to participate in the billions of holdings in a company that aims to become one of the world’s leaders in fish feed and fish farming. In the farming industry, many small and medium-sized operators are active and expanding. The access to capital is good, and there is no reason why the State should engage in displacement for those already operating in the industry. It can help to push the price of farms up by creating artificial pressure in the industry. There is a danger that the State, as a major shareholder, may pay overprice when it buys up companies. Many individuals in this industry raise questions about this. Statkorn Holding will have to compete in its buying-in portfolio with private companies that run well, with healthy and solid jobs. They want to bring this industry on its own. There is therefore no need for a large Norwegian state company to further develop this industry. A timely question will be: why should politicians contribute to the creation of such a sample, directly in competition with and to the distortion of small and medium-sized enterprises in the industry? We don't find a single argument that's good enough to develop a state-owned breeding adventure. I am amazed at the position of the Christian People's Party – I have come up with that in the past – that they can participate in this grip, a grip that tastes of concentration, capital, resources and possible centralization. Statkorn Holding has made purchases of breeding companies in Chile and is in the process of doing the same in Canada, subject to the implementation of a targeted capital increase. It is emphasised that the price of the Chilean company Mainstream is favourable and the proposed solution offers a significant increase in value. The Progress Party considers that Statkorn Holding's arrangements, given that these funds may be used, cannot have an impact on the assessment to be made by the Size Group. Firstly, provision is made subject to allocation. This is therefore unproblematic. Secondly, the size of processes initiated by state enterprises is not required until it is organised with funding. One such thing is going on, so there is-the attitude cannot serve as a means of pressuring to support this allocation. So the question of national ownership. The Government wants a final solution, whereby the State, together with Norwegian private industrial partners, is to ensure national majority control in a listed company, with a permanent State holding of 34 p.m. This in itself is a strange and unsustainable argument. One consequence of being quoted is that you do not have control of who owns the shares. For that reason, foreign owners can buy up the majority in Statkorn Holding over the stock exchange, so that there will be no full national control. 66 pst. after all, the company has to float on the stock exchange, which in turn means that foreign capital can easily buy up the majority of the company and decide on a number of issues different from those of the State. If the Ministry of Agriculture wants to secure national owners, the company must not be listed on the stock exchange. Thus, national ownership cannot be a valid argument for this allocation. The government believes that a future group, a StatekornAqua, can appear as a tool to ensure national ownership of a future-oriented aquaculture industry. This is the Party of Advancement opponent of. If the Government wants Statkorn Holding to become an instrument of marine policy, this requires a careful investigation by the authorities. The proposition does not give rise to an in-depth discussion of the fundamental question of whether to re-enter this industry. First, the state agrees to sell Hydro Seafood, then six months later to want to invest in this industry again – and at a higher price. We don't think this can be thought of. Therefore, the proposal must primarily be rejected by the Storting or returned to the Government. On behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right, I raise proposal No. 1, and on behalf of the Progress Party, I raise proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Both proposals are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1046	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1051	After the recent events in this room, I had actually got the impression that the Progress Party had begun to get a different view of the cooperation between the state and the private. But then it turns out again that the Progress Party is very adaptable, based on what they count with the voters I think is the best. But what surprises me most is that the representative Hedstrom says that this is a ‘speculative’ enterprise, when the leading consultants we have in this area say the opposite! If a person is to act as a professional owner, a person shall do exactly what the Government here proposes and as the Storting will adopt later today: enter with an increase in capital before one sells or enters into cooperation with others in the industry. So here it is the Progress Party and the Right that speculate with the state and the Norwegian people's resources, not the plural. I thought we should at least agree on that. It is not the case that this company should ‘raid up’ small and large farms along the coast. When it comes to those in private ownership, it's the private ones who decide if they want to sell! It's not Statkorn Holding today or in a future form, but it's those who own them today, who decide if they want to sell. And if that's how they want to sell, it's better that Statkorn Holding buys than that Nutreco does, at least with my eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1060	The Labour Party and the Advance Party were united in the Fornebu case, but they differ on essential points from this case, because the Progress Party believes on a general basis that in the case of research, development, training, education, etc., it has a public responsibility. We regard this as purely speculative business, and we totally disagree that Statkorn Holding should be an instrument of farming policy without at least having been thoroughly investigated, just as Statoil did when it was supposed to be an instrument of oil policy. There is complete confusion in the farming industry, not only among Norwegian actors, but also among foreign actors, because the country has participated in many different roles here and at different levels. I'll see if I can find some examples of that. It's not just that Statkorn Holding gave a higher price to the feed company EOS, they say private, than what the private providers could do because they had to do a 100 pst. commercial assessment, which the state not in all contexts should, Statkorn Holding will now in the next round buy up companies in Chile and Canada, and you are in Fjord Seafood through the SND, and we also have the feed company Biomar, where the state through Norwegian Hydro is inside the owner's side. So here it's a complete conspiracy in relation to the role of the state. So I would recommend that the Storting and the majority look at our proposal that we get a thorough investigation into what should be the state's role in farming policy, before we assign Statkorn Holding to the role it should play today. That's why we have the clear line that speculative business should not operate with this company, because we want to talk with one tongue to the actors in this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1067	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1070	I share the views of the committee leader and wonder that the Minister for Fisheries is not present during the discussion of this matter. When you look at what was the original proposition, you might not believe it was necessary, but after that discussion the matter was dealt with in the committee, where everything was possible, more or less relevant, it would have been very natural that the Minister of Fisheries had been present today and could have defended the Government's position on auction, which is the opposite of what the majority is now in favour of in the vote. It could have been an interesting exercise. After hearing the statements so far and not least after hearing the case rapporteur, I cannot suppress the feeling that the Christian People's Party must feel that they have been involved in something that they would have been in favour of afterwards. That this is the beginning of IT Fornebu 2, I don't think there should be any particular doubt about it. Now it is very good, as Hedstrom said, that the Progress Party does not participate in speculative business. I thought of it more as a recognition than as a position that they have had over time. But that's so good. All this is in this position, and in part what has been said from this pulpit today, I look at as Christmas sticks around a Statkorn Holding ASA that is an aggressive company in an aggressive market in an aggressive industry. That's what this is about. This setting and some of the statements that have come here, I would call marine policy patchwork. I do not think that will be easy to track in the actions that this company will take next time. It's also interesting that two of the center parties have gone on a different line than the Christian People's Party in this, and that means that one more thing, maybe there's a full collection on that side as well. What are the consequences of what is said here, and what are the consequences of the strategy chosen by the company? Yes, there may be a little vague perception about that, and I think the case rapporteur contributed to making it more unclear than is necessary, because what is a perfectly obvious conclusion from those who have assessed this before Statkorn made his own assessment is that this company should grow by buying. So you could call it raiding, or you could call it whatever you want, but you're going to grow by buying. That's what you're going to have, and you're going to buy or raid on the southern hemisphere and on the northern hemisphere. You have to take two thirds in Norway and one third in Chile. It is the whole philosophy of growth, and it has even been recommended that this should happen quickly, very quickly, so that it can be done at all, and that it should be the internationalization that has been said to be. As a consequence, this will help to drive up the price of concessions along the coast, so there is no doubt about it. The position of the majority is not requested, as far as I can see, in some districts. Now I've had six hearings with the industry from absolutely every team on this in six different counties, and except for people who have their livelihoods in Statkorn, I haven't met anyone who stands up for this position. I also think it has a link to the ownership message we dealt with last year and the fundamental review we had with regard to state participation and where it should be, whether it should be in the exercise of ownership or in research and development, which is also kind of suffocated into this. It seems that one centre party has not read that setting, it may be because they were not in the committee at the time. I think that the concession award we're now going to get, also maybe to some extent will be colored by this. Whether to call it speculative activity or not – I can't exactly say that I feel very confident that some department in the Ministry of Agriculture will more or less cook with the actors at Aker Brygge to find out what to do to enrich the treasury and taxpayers. I have very little faith in that. And to the extent that you have to hit the inner bull, I don't think it's because of the competence, but more randomness when an industry is in very high growth. I find it interesting that the Workers' Party places relatively unilateral emphasis on the advice from Aker Brygge in this matter, and not on what has been said elsewhere along the coast. The anchoring of the fact that this happens through buying and raiding, or what you will call it, is undeniable, and it's in the setting very clearly. There's something you can't get out of at least. So there's been a little talk about the capital forces. SV expressed in his tribute speech to Lilletun that strong capital forces along the coast, etc. was the option. It is precisely the capital forces, the entrepreneurs who have pledged houses and homes, that have produced this industry. At least it's not the state. Now, if we're going to get the state into the owner's side and the state is going to have a role in the development of Norwegian aquaculture, I'm very sceptical. However, what is pointed out by the Rikvam in relation to research and development in this area is quite correct. We have said that more or less in the 17th of May, beyond the 1990s, but there has been a steady decline in the Research Council's allocation of funds to this very thing. So to the Workers' Party's fisheries spokeswoman who talked about not buying, you had to pay with shares. If you get paid in dollars, in dollars or in shares, it doesn't matter. This is a listed company where you will be paid on Monday in shares that can be sold on Tuesday. We must not underestimate the fact that we are repairing this state company for just raiding. The conclusion is that what we are doing then is to deposit NOK 1.2 billion in the state grain so that they can carry out the raid in Chile in the short term, so that they can do what they themselves have said they should do in Norway next time. And then the question is, was there an alternative to taking out this prize? Of course it was. It was in June that one left this strategy, and it's quite obvious that if this about buying Mainstream in Chile has such a phenomenal upside as it might look like, it would be very strange if not investors through their price would discount that value already this summer. Of course, you could have chosen a different strategy than you have. And I think, when I look at the setting and the Roman number decisions and the formulations there in relation to how much you're going to sell down to and how little you're going to sell down to, that the Workers' Party has the space of action they need to achieve their long-term vision of owning the best possible in the widest possible industries in the most possible parts of the country, on every nose and on every odd. So I think they've achieved what's been meant to be. What we should focus on in general, and which we focused on in the context of the ownership announcement and which should have materialized in the individual matter, are the different hats of the state, even within this industry. So now the state has to become a big owner of what's going to be some kind of locomotive so far, at least as far as it's railing. The next thing is we're going to award concessions, and then we're going to be inspectors for this industry. I fully agree with the comment to which the Right has joined, which came from the Left, on these things. I'm glad that in part of the center parties there's a certain degree of recognition of the reality that should surround us on these issues. So all the honor to the Left today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1103	It's not surprising that the dividing lines in this debate today go where they go, but sometimes you could have had some fun. The representative Ansgar Gabrielsen asks questions as to whether one could not have benefited from another strategy and let private instead of the state come in when it broke up the capital extension, and on the other hand he talks about ‘reaching’ the treasury. All of this is about the state being allowed to participate in a procession, and the values that lie there must be able to benefit the Norwegian people rather than necessarily benefiting private operators. That there should be something that falls down the representative Ansgar Gabrielsen so heavy for the chest, I think I'm strange, because he's one of the exponents because the state acts far too little as a professional owner. In this context, it is precisely the professional ownership that is expressed by the state's participation in the inclusion of the values that are involved. In advice that comes from completely independent consulting companies that other companies benefit from, one just confirms this. So I only have a small question for the representative Gabrielsen: what's so bad about a state-owned company acting 100 pst. professionally and maximizes the values of their owners, both private and public?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1112	At my discretion, what is in the setting is not near what is meant by a professional owner. All the Christmas sticks attached to this case do not involve the exercise of professional ownership. What's the proposition's message, I guess I can help call an attempt to exercise professional ownership. Everything else you try to hang on, which is to be incorporated and attached to the statutes, etc., will be a hindrance to this company. So there can be no doubt. And if there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that the government in Statkorn Holding would have been all that Christmas stick besides. So for this, the state is going to be on the uphill. Who has said that in a year’s time this industry is the same as it is today? If you're going to see the last ten years together, it's over the last ten to twelve months we've been on the price lease we're now, and as an average consideration, this hasn't been a very special, good store. You buy in faith a certain development. That's what's happening here as well. But my point is that the state could have taken that gain out in advance without taking part in the capital increase, by having an issue without even going in, and then selling out. Of course, they had discounted this value and faith in the future and this purchase. Because it's quite obvious that if the state had said no to go in with NOK 1.2 billion, this company would have been able to get funding anyway so that you could have guessed the amount you wanted early. Finally, the whole intention to build walls along this country to avoid foreign ownership in Norwegian farming, I think to a good point of view. On the other hand, if at the same time and in the same position the State company maximises its ability to raid the southern hemisphere, then double standards are put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1121	The representative Gabrielsen is talking today about this Christmas sticker. He's inspired that soon it's Advent, and that's understandable. But I want to define what this Christmas stick consists of. The representative Gabrielsen was busy with what people on the coast are busy with. Well, the people on the coast are busy with the Christmas stick that is called auctions. They want another form of concession award, and it's part of this Christmas stick. I think the people on the coast are well-accompanied with that decoration. I think they think it's extraordinarily good. So to another part of the decoration, how are concessions to be awarded when it relates to structure? What does the people on the coast say about it? Breeders' organizations have said that they should first go to those who already have one and two concessions, and then to entrepreneurs. Likewise, it's taken in by putting the scabs in proper condition. Yeah, I think the people on the coast are naked with it. And I think that the representative Gabrielsen is quite right in saying that the people on the coast aren't necessarily, especially after the horror propaganda that has been driven by some people, they're sure of what Statkorn Holding will do. So we've written a little bit about it. It's clear that there's a difference in the view of ownership, and it's actually going between the center and the Right and the Progress Party. It's right that we've separated teams today, but when you look at what those parties write, you see that they're some people in that one should be able to have strategic minorities that can create national head offices, national ownership and a national strategy. One could right the new leader of the NHO pronounced on television yesterday that it is of immeasurably great value that we keep a good number of companies, and that it is especially important for Norway in the future with Norwegian head office and Norwegian ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1132	I can confirm that the calendar shows that it is approaching Christmas, but the representative Gabrielsen is not in the vicinity of the Christmas mood yet, because the crumb has not begun, so it is something in time. The Christmas sticker in this context is not the wording that goes in auctions and all that is irrelevant to the matter of Statkorn itself, but the reductions in the operating space of the company, which any company and board wishes to have maximum, without restriction, in addition to the provisions of the Share Act. In the position and in the Roman number decision that we have today, there are some leadings that are narrowing the scope of action of the company and that will reduce the possibility of exercising ownership – as the representative Lilletun himself characterised it as initially – on commercial terms. There are some other considerations that need to be taken and that have their price, and that will dissipate in the value of the shares of this company, whether because of the private or public shareholders. So to this with the NHO president. Now I didn't see him on TV yesterday, but he hardly said anything that hasn't been said a thousand times before from the NHO about the need to keep Norwegian head office and Norwegian ownership. That's something that we all agree on is important. What we're a little bit in disagreement about is the way it's going to happen. I don't share the philosophy that we're going to do it by attaching the statutes to the company in which we're going to have a holding, then selling us out. What we have to do is, of course, create a framework that allows people to do this voluntarily, to stay in this country and to find it useful to do business from Norway, both as owners and as operating organisations. We do so through the framework conditions that we generally adopt in the budget. And after promise, the outcome of the negotiation, as far as it's leaked, may indicate that there will be an improvement in relation to what it originally could look like, and that's very commendable from Mr. Little thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1141	At regular intervals, SV, at least parts of the party, is accused of being museum administrators. After hearing the posts of the representative Gabrielsen, they must have quite a number of museum administrators in the Right as well. For what is the actual situation? The actual situation is that this is an industry that we expect to become a major and heavy industry in Norway. When we're partying, we're talking about this industry taking over the oil. That's what we're talking about. This is an industry that has been created, among other things. by means of public research efforts. It is the public research institutions, colleges and universities that have developed and are developing this industry through strong and good efforts to become a commercially strong and good industry for the country. That's the actual ratio. And then we are in a situation where the Norwegian state is also sitting on a rather large financial capital – a capital that we place abroad, which somehow has to be placed. That's the actual ratio. Clearly, the right has no problem with us placing it in private companies abroad, who may also be engaged in aquaculture if appropriate. We are now in a situation where we have a Norwegian company that is going to operate within what we assume becomes a growth industry. And then the Right is getting very serious decisions against state financial capital, which the government is sitting on, going into the owner's side of the company. There can be no more than prejudices and museum boards that give rise to such attitudes, for it must be in everyone's interest that that capital be placed where it can yield good returns and where it will provide growth and jobs. That must be the goal. So the position of the right hand side becomes a little bit weird. It's going to be incomprehensible, and it's going to be weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1151	I don't ignore the fact that there are museum guards and administrators in several parties. They are more visible in individual batches than in others. But when it comes to using state financial capital to buy up growth in Norway, I disagree. I think it is very unfortunate that we should change the policy on which there was broad agreement in this Chamber, that the accumulation of capital on the hand of the State and that of the Bank of Norway should be spread until the holding is up to a few percent. Here we're talking about recapitalizing a company that we own 80 pst. of, and intended to become, a locomotive. And it's clear that if the next example is this fund that was set up by Opseth, which would have 100 billion dollars to buy food chains and different domestic and foreign sources, I don't think that's the best way to manage the government's funds. In business in this country, we should, at my discretion, liquidate the state direct ownership. I see no reason for us to go into a breeding industry and start using billions. Then it wouldn't be unnatural for one to say, if one has the position that SV has, that we don't distribute more farming concessions, let the state take the gain in which there is such a great potential. With regard to who has built up Norwegian aquaculture, it is clear that it has happened in research and in private capital, as it has been worldwide. Norway accounts for between 1 and 2 pst. of the world's breeding, and one must not have the idea that Norwegian public funds have taught the world to breed. It's not that necessarily we've thought all the thoughts first. In the case of red fish, we're far ahead, have 10 pst. of the world market and is at the forefront – and should be at the front. Unfortunately, we are hampered by the agreement with the EU in order to expand even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1162	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1165	Clearly, the Minister for Fisheries has not been informed that the guidelines for the future of the aquaculture industry are now being laid down. I think it's weird. The centre party is more concerned with the future of farming and coastal Norway than with the future of Statkorn. Since all of the numerous industrial enquiries have expressed either strong scepticism or strong opposition to state capital to the growing industry according to the Statkorn model, the Centre Party is opposed to this proposal. The industry fears a new raider who is tougher than those who have been on the road before, is what has been said. Totally useless by the state, most say. In spite of the fact that the Centre Party is strongly committed to ensuring national ownership in an industry where public spending on research and development has to be heavily concentrated in the next few years and where we do not want the results of the project to be flagged out. It's an industry where the actors have to have the right to have significant land in the coastal zone in order to have the development that we've decided on. The centre realizes that the strategic location of state capital in concession companies is one of the few instruments that one has left to prevent the flagging out of important companies. This is due to the EEA Agreement, or rather to a lack of counter-representation against the agreement which a person wishes to have free access to the participations. The other effective instrument we have against such flagging is statutory requirements, or statutory requirements, for locally anchored ownership of companies that have important natural resources. Such a legal requirement exists in the current Breeding Act. Until there is a strong political will in the ministry to use that legal provision, it is the will of the individual local owner to maintain ownership of the rural breeding company which is the best security to prevent central or foreign capital from being acquired, and thus removes the net value of the coastal population. The center party will ring about the local owners we have left. We will protect them from raiding from those who are most busy. The centre party is complying with this case in the eyes of the small owners, those who have not given in to the purchase offers until now, even when the state's own company, Hydro Seafood, lured the best offers. We want to stand on the side of small local businessmen against central capital power. We want the most net to remain in the majority municipalities. And it's not so nice that the little actors are scared and skeptical. They say that if the state joins a company that says they'll grow up in a short time by buying up, then there's a signal that it's the structure that the state wants. And probably this fear comes from the fishing industry as well. Today we have bans on vertical integration in our fishing industry, and then the state wants to contribute with a company that is vertically integrated into the aquaculture industry, without any further discussion as to whether it is right, whether that is what we want. It's sensational. Statkorn could have contributed positively to both strengthening the locally anchored companies and preventing our larger companies from flying out, by acting as a minority winner. In more difficult economic times, which will certainly come for the farming industry, patient capital will be needed, as the state may be, also in the smaller companies. The central party wants State cereals to become a tool in the breeding industry, so that we want the semi-state Investment Fund to be able to stay in other industries, by participating in ownership networks in Norway that contribute to a high level of research and development, by ensuring against flagging out and contributing to the creation of international alliances. In such a arrangement, the State would not be the principal owner of individual companies, but would be a member of many private owners who share the same business philosophy, a business philosophy which must then be included in the statutes of the investment company. An additional element in this case: the Statekorn Group has expressed in a letter a great deal of concern about the fission of the Statekorn Group to which it is added, which has been little investigated and decided in accordance with what such a major conversion would require. It is also due to the urgency, because the Statkorn has stumbled over something that they think is gold worth. I will take up the proposal of the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1193	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1198	I record that the Centre Party and Morten Lund make themselves the spokespersons of the small farmers – it may have been to the extent that the farming industry in general – but it is not the case that the Centre Party, in all matters relating to the future of the farming industry, has been on the side of the industry. I believe the representative Morten Lund must study his history in his defence of the farming industry in general and the small breeders in particular. So the center party is against vertical integration in this industry. Yes, the Central Party and the representative Morten Lund would like to be, but that integration is in full swing. It happened that Nutreco bought up Hydro Seafood – right after protest from many here in the hall, but that's what's real. And if it is that the Center Party believes that one can live on in the future without one getting a vertical integration in this industry, then they have to go in the mind box. It's quite obvious that it's coming to be. Then it's important that we also have a national company that can do it in that context. There have been many who have called for the Minister for Fisheries. Can it not simply be that the Minister for Fisheries is not the owner's representative for Statkorn Holding and should not do so after this has come on the stock exchange? He should be the manager of fishing interests and also the interests of aquaculture, both today and in the future, so this should be a clear expression that there will be a distinction between the roles.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1207	Yeah, the center party is the spokesperson for the small ones in the farming industry, and that's what's needed. I know the industry in close proximity, and I have seen what has happened through the purchases that have been, among other things. by Hydro Seafood. It's been negative -- it's been negative for the communities, and it's been negative for the production of those companies. Some people I know were on top -- they were on top. There was something quite different when the owners were sitting in a town far away and there was no longer anyone going down to the plant in the evening. The small companies are the ones that are the most profitable, because it's seen as well as it happens. They are also able to obtain economies of scale by cooperating, they are doing their job of contributing to research and development, and they are doing their best to get their products sold. I think it's been the longest team in terms of progress towards the big ones, and I think they've been hard-handed. I think it might well prove that the huge capital injections that have been necessary can be heavy enough to carry. So there's so much going on, and that's why we just have to do what's happening! It was not necessary to say ok to Nutreco, who is the one introducing vertical integration in this industry in Norway. It went to say no. In England that case was stopped — it is not approved in England yet, because Nutreco gets too much power on the feed side. We could have done that, too. There is no need for developments to be overarched by policy. It must be assumed that we who sit on Stortinget take hold of and decide what is to be the development of what we say is to be our future industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1218	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1221	As a small preliminary remark, it is interesting to note that in this case, which is an important business policy issue, the centermates separate layers. The marine industry is a future growth industry. The potential is great, enormous if we are to believe the scientists at SINTEF. The production potential is several hundred billion dollars, and the strategy for Statkorn is to develop the company into a fully integrated company. From being large, yes world-leading, as a feed producer, the company must go into the aquaculture sector. We in SV believe this is a right strategy and a right policy. Firstly, state capital must be used to develop Norwegian business. The state sits on and will remain on a heavy capital base in the years to come, and it must be right that it is used to develop Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs, and that we also go into the owner's side and not just into a company with foreign capital. State capital shall ensure Norwegian ownership. We in SV believe it is important that we ensure that the aquaculture industry, at least parts of it, gets a heavy Norwegian ownership. It is also important that state capital can become a driving force for further development of the industry, with major challenges both in the production, environmental, market and transport sectors. State cereals must then become a company that is the leader of R & D in the field of aquaculture. The company should be used to play teams with the local interests. It is important that the industry is able to maintain a heavy local ownership. However, it would be wrong if a doer, as the Senterpartiet wishes, stated in the statutes that the company should not become a majority shareholder when it forms part of a partnership with other Norwegian companies. If the Centre Party is committed to defending local ownership, it should be more concerned about what the large private actors can represent of the threat to local ownership. State grain shall be an active owner to take into account both business and national considerations in relation to Norwegian ownership. We in SV take note that there is a majority to further reduce government ownership, from 51 pst. for a floor of 34 pst. For the ownership of the State, this is of little importance. I would like to stress that it is difficult to find good business-economic reasons for this if this is – and we believe it is – an industry with a high growth potential. However, we are going to vote in favour of this proposal. We have put in a proposal that goes more on the environmental side of this industry. The whole industry has major environmental challenges, not just Statkorn. And industry's potential for growth will depend primarily on its ability to develop as a sustainable industry. We believe it is important that Stortinget gives a clear signal to Statkorn, which is a state-owned company with currently 80 pst. state ownership, that they need to develop a proper and good environmental strategy. We don't think this will be a cost to the company, but that it will be a competitive advantage. A lot of good work has been done on medicine use, evacuation, etc. We still think it is right when we discuss this matter, to give this clear signal to this state company. However, the main challenges for the company will be to develop raw materials in non-alternative feed, as is the case today. State cereals are high on the feed production side, and this is therefore the most important challenge for the company. In the environmental strategy that we want to signal to the company, we want it to be a priority task to find alternative raw materials on the feed side. So I'm going to deal with the proposal that we've put in. Based on what has been signaled, I also have good hope that this can be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1242	The representative of Rikvam has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1245	Worldwide, demand for clean, healthy food is increasing, produced in a sustainable way from renewable resources. Norway has the world’s best natural conditions for supplying such food. We exported last year's seafood to incredible 150 countries, and nothing indicates that we've reached the top. There is a potential for value creation in the marine industries in the next decades, which is huge, probably worth several hundred billion dollars. The question we have to ask ourselves is how best to trigger this potential for value creation. I note that the majority in this case believe that extensive state ownership and state capital to purchase in existing companies is a necessary and appropriate way to go. The left does not share that view. I allow myself to remember that neither the Christian People's Party nor the Center Party did so when the Stortingen discussed ownership policy a year and a half ago from the ownership announcement. As a result, the Centre, together with the Right, pointed out that many state companies are former monopolies for the production of certain services, that these monopolies have been largely abolished and that State companies are now acting in a common competitive market. Our common conclusion was that this weakened the need for state ownership. The principle left stood for that time, we also base the state ownership of Statkorn Holding, especially because this is an example taken from the textbook on possible role conflicts between the state as owner and state as regulator. If the principle of state ownership does not have any value, it is difficult to see that it has any value at all. I also share the good views of the representative, Mr Gabrielsen, in this regard. The aquaculture industry was not created by the Norwegian State. It is created by a variety of large and small private owners who have done an excellent job in developing the industry to what it is today. I can't see what would suggest that they won't continue with it in the years to come. That the state per definition should be a more high-ranking owner than all of these big and small actors, I think is the wrong approach. Why is it so crucial to pump in $12 billion to one of the many actors on that track, has been a mystery to me, and I have not heard any good answer to that in this debate either. I also waited in excitement for a reasonable explanation of the distinction between buying up Norwegian companies, to which the majority allows, and raiding the same companies, which the majority does not want. The left considers that there are completely different areas in which the state has a role to play. We want government capital to be used not for buying-in but for investing large and long-term in research, development and commercialisation also in new industries. The State shall contribute to more diversity, not to less. In this respect, I find it alarming that the Labour Party's draft budget does not follow up the research report's objective of stepping up research efforts. For the Left and the Other Centre Parties, this is a very central priority. The left conclusion is that the State should not participate in the planned capital increase in Statkorn Holding but ensure that the issue takes place through private capital. However, we share the majority's view that it is right to maintain a long-term state holding of more than 33 p.m. in order to ensure stability and long-term ownership, and to ensure that management and strategy functions remain in Norway. Finally, I would like to comment on an important point in the comments, where the Left is associated with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party. With regard to the wrecking of the Minister of Fisheries's proposal to auction out new breeding concessions and instead to apply criteria to farmers and small operators in the industry. This is positive, and I am pleased that the Labour Party's committee members here have listened more to signals from party traps along the coast than to their own fisheries minister. The combination of an auctioning principle that favors the large, capital-powerful actors and massive state drachma to Statkorn Holding would have been the worst case scenario for the structure of the farming industry. For the Left, it is particularly gratifying that the bulk of the population now opens up so that schools that depend on a farm can have their own concessions. It can provide an essential boost to the recruitment of the maritime industries and should be a political signal of the importance of providing attractive training services in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. Then I registered the visit that Rita Tveiten had to me and the left. I think it was a bit clumsy remark and an attempt to get a cheap point. [[The President clubs.]] Rita Tveiten may not have understood the majority position she is in, because in the answer to Hedstrom afterwards she just justified why it was important to have 34 pst. ownership of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1262	The President will remember that it is Friday, and then compliance with the speaking time may be more important than it is the other days. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1268	Kongshaug was concerned about the use of state resources upstream, and he specifically mentioned research and development. That's where the state would put its resources. I agree with him. I agree that the country should use research funds to develop industries – for all – and that public education institutions should be at the heart of this development, that they should be. But when he believes that the state should enter upstream, I am surprised that he does not have a certain understanding that the state should also have the opportunity to enter downstream. But to the extent that it is relevant for the state to enter the owner's side, and to the extent that this becomes a growth industry, which will yield capital – without one having to raid anything along the coast – is it not fair and just that the state receives a reasonable return from what is being created, that one after entering heavy upstream can also join in and reap downstream? What is it that is essentially hard to accept it? Now I don't decide what this industry will look like in the future. But here, you put a government money into a company that's going to be active, and then you have to be able to also take out earnings downstream. What's so fundamentally wrong with that, when the state is going to be heavy and important upstream?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1275	The left will have an interaction between the state and business, but we don't want an imbalance where the state becomes a mastodont that, on political premises, is going to conduct a business development and with state capital overrun others. The left will not have a relationship with a limited liability company which has taxpayers' money in its back, and which shares in such doubts about real freedom and commercial sound competition. It's this that's the important dividing lines. Research efforts can be deployed in entirely different areas than being introduced into such a company as is proposed here, with the objectives and visions of the company in view of the so-called raiding of Norwegian farming companies along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1280	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1283	Statkorn Holding ASA was established on 12 December 1994 as a parent company for its establishments in the market for cereals, flour and maize. This occurred after the end of the country’s cereal monopoly from the turn of the year 1994-95. Since the beginning of 1995, the Statkorn Group has changed and developed significantly. This has been essential to the success of the markets. Today's main activities are in the cereals and feed industry and the milling industry. Relatively recent purchases of the group into breeding abroad. State cereals are known to aim at becoming a global and fully integrated aquaculture company. In December 1999, Statkorn Holding ASA was partially privatised with 20 pst. The company NorgesInvestor bought into Statkorn and is currently in the board of directors. The Statkorn Group has been in surplus since 1995, which is not an obvious consequence of a deregulated state enterprise in a deregulated market. The overall performance of the Statkorn group has been, with few exceptions, good and satisfactory. Nevertheless, the past two years have seen a failure in the performance of traditional agricultural markets. This has called for further conversion. Among other things, failure of returns has resulted in the disposal of traditional agricultural activities. Freed capital has been used for new acquisitions in the marine sector. The EMS companies in Norway and the rest of the world were acquired in the spring of 2000. 100 pst. ownership of the fish feed company NorAqua AS was achieved as of this year. Since maritime competitors fully integrated themselves in the farming and aquaculture industries in spring 2000, this meant that the Statkorn Group also had to make an overall assessment of the company’s strategy. In the summer of 2000, the new company strategies on vertical integration in the aquaculture industry were adopted. The Governing Board has proposed a targeted issue to its current owners of up to SEK 1.5 billion to meet the new company strategies of becoming a fully integrated and global feed and aquaculture group. Purchases of two smaller aquaculture companies in Canada have been completed. In Chile, there is now a call option on the breeding company Mainstream. The completion of this transaction depends on the full execution of the corrected issue by 30 November of this year. The Government is pleased that the position of the Business Committee provides the basis for a majority in the Grand Duchy of Great Britain for the strategic choices made by the Governing Board. There is also a majority to grant DKK 1.2 billion above the State budget in order for the State to participate pro rata in the corrected issue. This implies that in the short term the State maintains its ownership position in the company with 80 pst. The Government has obtained advice from senior marine sector consultants in connection with the issue. We have chosen to focus on the same business criteria as a large and long-term private investor would have done. A State investment in Statkorn Holding, through the current preferential right, is clearly recommended by the hired consultants. The likelihood of this being a very good investment is great. It should be natural, even for the State, to take good care of its interests. The State as the main shareholder in Statkorn Holding should be a professional, tidy, rational, responsible and industrial investor acting in a manner similar to that of a large and long-term private investor. Other government participation principles on the stock side would have been wrong on the basis of basic business principles. If the country as a shareholder is to succeed in the conversion of a former state enterprise that has begun — and which has previously been widely agreed upon in the Stortinget — this requires a continuous conversion of the business in the same way as the rest of the business in Norway and abroad. This is the key of increased value creation. The company NorgesInvestor, which has high returns requirements, has chosen to follow in the corrected issue by subscription to its share. Similarly, I have received signals that the investment company Odin Management, which is the third largest investor in Statkorn Holding, will do. The value of the Statkorn group has increased less than one year from 700 million. kr to a total value of NOK 2 billion per year. today. This is confirmed by new and independent valuations. Additional added values in excess of DKK 2 billion have been identified if the industrial partnership and financial liquidity of the share are achieved. When such added values are probable, it is important that the State, like any other investor, participate in this appreciation by subscription to new shares. Maintaining the country’s ownership position in the company in the short term will best safeguard the country’s total values in the company in the longer term. A dilution of the state's ownership in the company before the company's new business strategies are implemented is not the Council of State consultants. The fact that the State subscribes to the issue also ensures that the company retains the Chilean company Mainstream on which the option exists and which would otherwise be lost. So over to the political aspects of this case: in addition to the purely business aspects, this case has a large national and political perspective. The government believes that it will be important to facilitate adequate national ownership of one of the country’s main future industries for export and value creation. This theme takes the Government seriously. I believe that national government and private industrial capital should be able to work side by side, in order to ensure together national majority control in a future-oriented Norwegian-based company in a global industry. A national ownership should be able to be exercised in the long-term by means of an industrial partnership between Norwegian capital and State long-term capital. The globalisation of industry in general and in the aquaculture industry in particular puts partnerships between state and Norwegian private capital in a new light and perspective that should be able to bear fruit. The implementation of the company plans currently existing in the Statkorn Group, according to the Government’s assessment, appears as a possible tool for ensuring such national and long-term ownership. The future aquaculture group that this is about could become a locomotive for other national activities. The scheme involves the realisation of a powerful Norwegian-based company in one of its future industries. I have noted the comments of the majority regarding the exercise of long-term state ownership, including the location of the head office in Norway, and the active role of Statkorn Holding in relation to research and development. The leadership of the Committee is consistent with the views of the Government and will be followed up in an appropriate manner. Finally, an ambitious and comprehensive timetable has been outlined in the proposition that the Government will do its utmost to follow up. I want to pay great attention to following up the position of the nutrition committee. I am very pleased that there is a majority position between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party. From my point of view, the SV proposal will also contribute to the development of Statkorn Holding in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1328	Marine farming can become Norway’s most important industry in a few years, when non-renewable resources, oil and gas disappear. Therefore, it is very important how biging and government handle this matter. It sounds pretty good when you hear the council say this is going to be a global and integrated company that is going to act commercially and fully professionally. Nevertheless, the industry is very confused about the state’s role in the aquaculture industry – I was in the past – because the state has so many disguises. This with Nutreco is one thing that has been repeated almost to the boring, but also that the state paid overprice for the EMU. To what extent will the State as an investor pay overprices for companies in the future, and thus not be fully professional and commercial in line with other private-interest businesses? We also have the country's role within the SND system, they're broad within aquaculture there as well, and through Hydro they still have interests in feed companies, for example. Biomar, as I mentioned earlier. When the government's representatives come with their suitcase, it confuses the industry both in Norway and abroad. What disguise does the State have today? Does not the Council of State, now that this company is supposed to be an instrument of this policy, mean that we should first have a complete investigation into what should be the role of the state and clarify it, so that other actors can know this with some certainty before entering Statkorn Holding and grant this large amount?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1335	The main answer to the question from the representative Hedstrøm will be that the country will also have different roles in relation to the farming industry, which in comparison to many other industries will have different roles to play in different contexts. Therefore, it is important that the state behaves neatly. I think it would be in line with the policy of the Progress Party, but not with the government, to say that the state should have only one commitment to an industry. It is clear that there will also be an involvement with the breeding industry in relation to the SND, in relation to research and development, in relation to fiscal policy, in relation to land policy, and also as the owner of an actor. This, I think, is a natural situation in a society like the Norwegian. It is important that we are tidy when we exercise the different roles, and that is the absolute intention to be also relative to Statkorn Holding in the future. What is important for me to stress is that I will dispute very clearly that Statkorn Holding has paid an overprice for the EMU and almost came with the state's money box in hand when that company was purchased. The company was purchased on a purely commercial basis in competition with others, but also on the basis that it had a partnership idea in the process of purchasing it. And the very idea of using partnerships as a building block is the cornerstone of the plans put forward by Statkorn Holding for the future, that you want to see if you can find actors in the Norwegian breeding market to cooperate and build partnerships with. I have great confidence in that, too, will be the policy that is being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1342	At the end of his speech, the Council of State said that he was very happy, and then he showed what he had done with the Christian People's Party. Nothing is happier for us in Stortinget than to have happy state councils. They have also been the state councils that have put forward over time proposals on issues that the Storting should be involved in to participate in the win, as they said. It was coke ovens, ironworks, South Warehouses, IT Fornebu, Gardermobanen, language centre at Voss – you can hold on for as long as you have breath and speaking time – and so now Statkorn. I have a very simple question for the Council of State – it is not of a political nature even: how many concessions are the growth to be made in Norway after the advice you have received, which the board has sought? The council said that the government has chosen to focus on the advice that has been given, and that it has been put into the proposition. How many concessions do you make up for today's growth to be based in Norway, not in Chile? How many concessions is the strategy to have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1349	Let me start by saying that Gabrielsen at the beginning of his line has a relationship that is important that we are aware of, that there is no single commitment in business that is 100 pst. security is guaranteed of success. There is no doubt that even if we have clear recommendations and advice from the consultants to participate here, and have probability statements that things can go well, yet also face a situation that will be demanding and challenging. Of course, it's not like you're dealing with all the different conditions that will eventually form the truth about Statkorn Holding in a few years. To the extent that I have produced it so that it is unproblematic and not challenging and demanding, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that it is. The consultants' reports also provide clear guidance on the areas in which Statkorn Holding has a clear need for improvement. Then to the second part of the question from Gabrielsen. I'm not able to say exactly how many concessions there will be. Very well known there is no such type of figure from Statkorn Holding either. The overall strategy of the company, as I experience it, is that we are now engaged in partnership with Norwegian companies. Serious actors in the Norwegian industry are being sought with whom long-term alliances can be built, and there is no predetermined perception of the company's size and how it should be. Today looks like it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1356	For the Christian People's Party, it has been a part of the decisive premise to enter the plural setting that prevails today. For the Christian People's Party, national ownership is important. In the areas we're going to be large in the future, it's important to have a national ownership of head office and strategy. It is also initialized in the configuration. Furthermore, in an industry to be internationalised and internationalised, private capital in the company is important. It's already there, and it'll be increased after a while. At the same time, it is important for the Christian People's Party to act professionally in relation to and at the owner, but we also see it in connection with a structure in a nutrition. I am very satisfied with the article to the Council of State, as it turned out, and I am also satisfied that he has noticed what is in the setting. Nevertheless, I would like to have an in-depth response from the Council when it concerns some points. One is where the Committee follows the policy of the farming industry when it comes to the future award of concessions, that those who have one or two concessions from before should first be given a concession, then founders and the schools in question, and then one should go on with it. I would like to challenge the Council of State to confirm that it is part of the part that he has marked well in relation to the setting, that it will be a thorough review of it, that it has been removed with the auction on concessions, as described in the setting, and that there will be a thorough return to the Storting in its own way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1363	It's basically not natural for me to comment on it; it's clear to another department, which is set to rule on a daily basis. But that’s of course the way – and I think Lilletun is very aware of that, but I understand the need to get it confirmed – that majority comments of this type from a Grand Committee are given great weight. Of course, we've noticed that, and it'll be quite natural for me to take this up especially with the Council of State Gregussen. I feel very confident that the Government will have no problems in following up the intentions of the majority comments that are underlying in these areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1369	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1372	We are discussing today the position on whether Statkorn Holding is going to become a large company with state resources to enter the industry in terms of farming, both to land and to water, I would have almost said, both domestically and abroad. Everyone has a fresh memory of what happened when Nutreco bought up Hydro Seafood. It is probably the result of the debate that came after that purchase, that this matter has come on the map. And I think the thoughts that lie behind, with capital injections in Statkorn Holding, are basically sensible. Had we had such a company when Hydro Seafood was sold, it probably wouldn't have happened that it came to foreign hands. Today, we find that more and more Norwegian businesses are being sold abroad. The money for the sales is sent after, because we have too much money in this country, they have to be used abroad, and then again to be used for new purchases here in the country, where again the profits are sent abroad, to be used again to buy up businesses in Norway. It's a remarkable situation. I don't want to be part of this. I do not understand what kind of policy is being pursued when it is so important to sell everything that exists from business and values to the rest of the world – to be bought up and owned abroad – and then send the money after. After all, it is a policy that leads to the closure of the nation state at a fast-growing pace. Options and concessions have been a hot topic. The preliminary work of the Aquaculture Act makes it clear that concessions should have no value in themselves. The fact that we have now experienced that shares are sold and plants are sold and traded with this is something that cannot be regulated by law. It's the market that decides. But when the state starts selling concessions, they break their own law. It's going to be completely contrary to its purpose, to what was the intention of the law. In that case, the law must be amended. So let's start talking about the land tax, the state is going to charge the land tax. Area fee for what? Are they going to charge a land charge for an area that they do not own? The state doesn't own the sea, it's generalization. They may not levy a land charge for an area not owned by the State. It's a remarkable problem. In that case, the law must be amended, and then the state must be given ownership of the sea. The state doesn't have it today. It's public -- everyone has the right to use the sea. If we make a change in the law so that it is possible to own the sea, as proposed by the Law of the Sea, it will be the first time that the principle is introduced that there can be ownership of an area where a species that crawls and crawls is exposed – then we will introduce a new principle. What, then, prevents us from experiencing in the future that the entire Norwegian economic zone can be bought up by some fund outside the world to which Norway may have contributed capital? We're on a drive that I think people don't understand. Today we are talking about the growth that will be so great. We need to use three kilos of fish to get one kilo of feed out – if you're using fish. If we increase breeding to 2.5 million. tonne, we're going to have to have 7.5 million. tons of fish – food that can feed the hungry world. Is that realistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1392	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1395	This is instead of a line, because there was no space for any more lines. I hope that the answer will not be that it cannot be answered because it is for another government council. This concerns the matter we have for treatment, and what is in the setting. When we discuss the state as its owner and the way in which the state should act as its owner together with private people and yet get its will as its owner, we come back to the fact that the way it is neat for the state to give notice of its will is through the statutes of the company. If you sit as the sole owner of the company and it is to be privatised, then the purpose of the state's ownership must be laid down in the statutes and incorporated into the statutes. It's a neat way of dealing with the new private owners who come into the company. That's what happens to a certain extent in this case. So there's one point that it's been impossible to get the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party to take part in the statutes, but as they've thought, it was so important that they would write a note about it. The President-in-Office of the Council, Lilletun, said that it is a matter of course that the Government will ensure that it does so. And that's what the comment says: ‘The majority argued that the strengthened equity situation should not lead to the company raiding Norwegian concessions and contributing to more acquisitions of concessions than would otherwise have been the result.’ It is a company that is going to be as large in Norway as Hydro Seafood is today – and it is not to be bought more concessions than it would have been without that company. I would like to ask the Council of State: how will the Government ensure that it is as this remark says, when you do not want it to be stated in the statutes and thus made known to the other owners who are going to enter this new company quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1409	I had a question to the Council of State that I did not get answered. I'll repeat it. I guess that's what he asked the government and the management of Statkorn about, who's at the diplomat's. My question was: the strategy chosen is that this company should have a production volume of 90 000 tonnes, of which 30 000 tonnes appear to be produced outside the borders of this country, and a production volume of 60 000 tonnes should be that of this company within the country, representing 10 pst. of Norwegian rearing volume. How many concessions do Statkorn Holding ASA then have to buy or infuse and pay either cash or in shares to realise the vision developed on Aker Brygge, joined by Statkorn Holding ASA, which underlies the Government's recommendation to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1416	This is also based on the fact that I was not given the opportunity to take a reply earlier. Among businessmen, there is uncertainty as to the consequences of the new capitalist state giant. What's going to happen in practice? Other feed producers outside the company also fear that there may be a market that is not based on sound competition principles. State consultants recommend that the Statkorn Group integrate quickly and heavily to succeed in its strategy plans. Such a strategy is, among other things, the merger or purchase of one of the 10 largest Norwegian breeding companies. Then, in a comment, the majority said the following: ‘The majority argued that the strengthened equity situation should not lead to the company raiding Norwegian concessions and contributing to more acquisitions of concessions than would otherwise have been the result.’ Is the purchase of one of ten Norwegian breeding companies raiding? Or how does the Council of State define the majority comment and the content of the word ‘raiding’? It could be nice to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1430	I'll continue where I left off. What I intend to continue with is precisely this about the feed situation. 7.5 million tonnes is equal to 10 pst. of world catches today. Feeding for the formidable growth of the aquaculture industry needs to be provided and there is no other way of developing new feed types than through research, research and re-research. Today, only 30 million are used. kr for marine research by the Ministry of Fisheries, by the State – only 30 million. kr. For comparison, 42 million is used. kr to cover damage to predators in the agricultural industry. It should be a useful basis for comparison – as we have the agricultural councils here. Something dramatic needs to be done to develop new feed types. The profitability of the breeding industry must not be based on trading in shares, raiding, then reselling. I guess that's not the goal of the breeding industry. It must be from production, activity and sales that the net has to come. I think it's going to be an unreal debate when the whole industry is going to turn into an object of speculation. It is feed and it is the fishing industry that is going on next time. PanFish has been on a purchase round in the West and bought up a number of boats in the Pelagic sector. Now they're on raid up the coast of North Norway to buy up other pelagic companies and boats. That is where the fight will stand, not least the struggle for land. Will Statkorn Holding also engage in a buy-in in the fishing industry in order to obtain and secure feed access? It would be nice to get an answer. Will they compete and also put the fishing industry under the feet of speculators? As I see it today, there's only one way to solve the feed problem. It's taking advantage of photosynthesis, and then it's thinking especially of shells. There's been a report that says there can be 1.3 million tons of production from Trøndelag and southwards in the country. It's just the sun, the salt and the fresh water that makes you get that development, that you can produce so much. This is where it has to be researched.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1441	There are several people who have regretted that there was no opportunity to take more lines. Let me just stress that it is not the Council of States that has limited number of replications – it is the responsibility of others. But, of course, I want to take the opportunity to try to answer some of the questions that have arisen. Morten Lund is concerned about how the owner can help to get through his will — how to set up an operation to promote partnership, seek cooperation and seek community rather than raid. Yes, the state should still sit here with a minimum of 34 pst. of the ownership capital and will be a significant owner in this way. It is also clearly stated both in the proposal and in the recommendation from the Committee that, when it comes to entering the Norwegian market, the search for industrial partners is to be sought and partnership is to be sought. And I assume and take as a matter of course that both the board and the management of Statkorn Holding listen to what the owner says. If it is that the board and the management of Statkorn Holding were to start with a different behavior from what is now clearly underlined both by the majority in this room and by me as a representative of their own, there are, of course, instruments to do something with both the board and the management. So it would be an utterly hopeless strategy to think that the board here was going to start acting in violation of the clear guidance signal of the owner as expressed in this case. So I'm not particularly concerned as long as the board itself has proposed this strategy to the owners. So Ansgar Gabrielsen says he wasn't able to answer his question. Yeah, at least he didn't like the answer. But what is saying about the number of concessions question is that it is true that the consultants' reports that have come had a clear recommendation of 90 000 tonnes and a breakdown of 60 000/30000. The board of Statkorn Holding has not fully adhered to the same types of assessments, but it is agreed that a certain size is needed, and that a partnership in Norwegian industry should be worked on in order to arrive at a sensible structure of the company. That's the answer I think it's natural to give in that way. Kongshaug thinks I've answered through the answer to Morten Lund in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1452	About Gabrielsen has spoken the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1455	Thank you for that minute, President! I'm recording that the Council of State might distance itself a little bit from what is in the proposition, where you can get the impression that the report of the consultants is based on strategies that I can hardly see that someone has deviated. I must nevertheless take note that the Council of State suggests that at this point the government of Statkorn has not adhered to the recommendation of the consultants – at least not fully. Then is my last question: What does the Council of State see as the size of State cereals in Norway? Today, the bulk of the population allocates NOK 1.2 billion to purchases that will enable them to buy capacity in South America of 30,000 tonnes, and it is estimated that 60 000 tonnes are in Norway. What size and number of concessions does the Council of State see that this company has in the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1465	It's said in different contexts that it's not always the size that matters, but in this context it might be something in it. I believe at least that it would be unreasonable to set the exact number of concessions, because I think that to those degrees will depend on the total package that will emerge in terms of competence, in terms of concessions, in terms of all the different factors that are important to succeed in this industry in the future when to find that partner, or those partners, who will join Statkorn Holding ASA in the future to build a strong and good company that will act both internationally and nationally. That there must be a certain size in the number of concessions, I don't think there's any doubt. The consultants have therefore recommended 60 000 tonnes in Norway. There's a significant number of concessions. It shows something about the need to grow up. It shows something about the need to go to those companies that already have a weight in the Norwegian market when looking for partnerships and partners. I am not concerned that there are no companies that might be interested in the kind of dialogue with Statkorn Holding. I am reasonably optimistic and believe that when this case is finished in Stortinget, the Stortinget may soon see that it is possible to build partnerships, become large in Norway, develop a company that is strongly nationally anchored with head office in Norway, which is good at R & D, good at the environment, without raiding and without any small breeders feeling run over and destroyed, but that we can see that this company is just what we think it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1474	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 545]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1482	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1488	The President will propose that the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Stockholm meeting on 14 November 2000 on Norway's membership of the UN Security Council be recorded – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1695	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and Right Proposal No. 2, by Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 3, by Morten Lund on behalf of the Centerpartiet Proposal No. 4, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘St.prp. No 4 On capital expansion in Statkorn Holding ASA, the Government is returned and assessed in the context of an investigation into the role of the State in the aquaculture industry.» [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1724	The President will then vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the statutes of Statkorn Holding contribute to ensuring national ownership of the Norwegian aquaculture industry by joining the ownership community with other Norwegian companies without being a majority shareholder.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1738	The President will vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to liquidate its ownership of Statkorn ASA.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1752	The President will then vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks Statkorn Holding ASA to develop an environmental strategy for the company. The strategy shall make it visible how the company is to take the lead in taking care of the external environment, such as, inter alia, the limitation of escape. The environmental strategy also needs to demonstrate how a comprehensive research effort can develop a feed that reduces raw materials that have alternative value as human food.’» The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have indicated their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-17.ana.ud1035e1905	There is no record available.
