ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e31	The representatives of Anne Britt Stråtveit, Aud Blattmann, Odd Eriksen, Lars Rise, Jan Simonsen and Tom Thoresen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. They called for alternates, for Akershus County Else Marie Steenæs and for Nordland County Arvid Falch, have taken the seat. From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for sick leave from the representative of Anita Apelthun Seele from 1 February until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the county of Hordaland, Kurt-Arne Langeland, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Anita Apelthun Sæles leave from 1 February until further notice, due to illness. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Kari Sørheim, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Kari Sørheim is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e91	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each and the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Falch 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e100	The Eiksund connection with the new Rv 653 will provide a ferry-free connection for the island municipalities of Hareid, Herøy, Sande and Ulstein. Once the road link is completed, the ferry will be laid down on the Eiksund-Rjånes route and 22,000 people will be connected to the mainland by a lucky day. In this context, the Eiksund Association will bind a region of 40,000 people together with the continental municipalities of Volda and Ørsta. After a planning period of more than 10 years, there was local agreement on the line selection for the connection with the Eiksund filling/brown, approx. 8 km underground tunnel between Eika and Steinnesstranda, road towards Sørheim, tunnel from Sørheimstranda to Hovdevatnet and further in tunnel through Åsen to connect with E39, on the border between Ørsta and Volda. The total road length is approx. 15 km, for a total cost of 750 million. kr. In many ways, this is a comprehensive project. The Eiksund connection is described by Stortinget in several contexts, including: in the road map for 1994-97. In the spring of 1997, the Labour Party Government presented a proposal to allow the collection of advance tolls for the connection. The size agreed with this submission. In this proposition, a toll ratio of 20 pst was added. The link was also referred to as a priority national road project in the Roadmap 1998-2007. The Roadmap prioritised the project for start-up in the period 1998-2001 and end-of-life in the period 2002-2007. In today's vote, the majority continue to assume that the project will be realised during this period, i.e. 1998-2007. As I mentioned earlier, the total cost of the connection is set at 750 million. kr with an uncertainty of plus/minus 10 pst. The majority of the Committee is pleased that a quality assurance of the estimate of costs has been carried out by NTNU/SINTEF in preparing an independent cost analysis of the actual 7 pst project. lower than that now assumed by the Ministry and the Directorate of Roads. The majority agree that the toll company will continue to collect ex-ante tolls limited to 2005. That's all right. But it was probably more than I who blocked my eyes when the government decided to present a sketch to the finance plan without this being treated locally. There's probably a lot of things you can think about in this context. Is it so that the Government wants once again to use the Storting as a hearing body? Or is the Government in need of the Great Government's help in a matter where there would be no agreement between the Government and local authorities? The most tidy thing in such a case would have been that the Stortinget had returned the case to the Ministry with demands for local treatment and support for the Government’s arrangements – this because all toll cases should have a local anchor, both in terms of toll financing, guarantees, financing plan and not least the location of toll stations. When the majority found no reason to do this in this case, it was among other things. based on the history of the case, as I mentioned earlier. However, the majority, which also includes the government parties, emphasises that it is an unfortunate process that the Stortinge treats a financing plan that has not been dealt with by local authorities. The same majority of cases in similar toll cases subsequently assume that local treatment and agreement must be in place before the cases are brought before the Grand Duchy. The Committee chose to consult the local authorities prior to writing the setting, taking into account the particular situation. From a local point of view, the Committee's work has made it clear that local funding of 30 p.m. was considered. as very difficult. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right and the Progressive Party, have chosen to place significant emphasis on these points of view. In this context, the same majority argue that current calculations, and not least past assumptions, show that there is no traffic basis for a local share of 30 pst. It is important that a number material is used to provide a realistic funding basis for the project. I would like to stress that this applies to all toll projects, whether we allow for a higher or lower toll ratio than the general rule of 50-50 distribution between government and local funding. It is important that there is no uncertainty about the income base of these projects. Therefore, the Workers' Party and the Right propose that local funding of 25 p.m. be used in this project, which the Progress Party agrees to. The majority of the Committee points out that the link is a top priority in the More and Romesdal counties and assumes that the link will continue to be a top priority in the context of the national transport plan for the period 2002-2011. Provided this is done and the necessary clarifications and decisions for the local financing contribution and the necessary guarantees from the county council are available, it will not be necessary to present the final financing plan as a separate matter for the Storting before plant start. The majority assume that the Storting is properly briefed on this. Otherwise, the Storting will normally have to return to the state contributions in the individual budget proposals. Subject to local decisions, as mentioned above, the Workers' Party and the Right shall promote: the project Rv 653 Eiksund link is admitted as the national road toll company is authorised to collect traffic tolls in connection with the partial financing of the plant the Ministry of the Year necessary powers in this context With these words I would recommend the setting. Hopefully there will be a happy day on Sunnmøre when Stortinget today takes a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e140	The Eiksund connection is a long-term road project for the island municipalities of Hareid, Ulstein, Herøy and Sande as well as the continental municipalities of Ørsta and Volda. The road link has been on the agenda for many years and is badly missed in the region, because today it is totally dependent on connecting to the ferry link whether you are going to the mainland or you are going to the reverse road. The Progress Party has always been in favour of the development of the Eiksund link, with the exception of the ex ante collection of tolls. Pre-recovery was already adopted in connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No 265 for 1996-97, against the votes of the Progress Party. Of course, the Spring Party does not have the sense that today's system should continue. We are right to build bridges and roads with toll financing where ferry operations are replaced, but toll charges must only come when projects are completed and started. In the long term, the Eiksund connection is probably a useful project, but I am willing to admit that the project is cost-effective and poor. Minus costs are high, but if the county and the municipalities themselves want to give this project priority, they should have the opportunity, and then we support the project. But they should be aware that they have thus bound up large parts of the funds that are going to go to More and Romesdal in the future, in this one project, but it is on the assumption that we still have a central government or a labor party government, because these governments have not exactly distinguished themselves by so very large appropriations for the road sector. If road investment continues to decline as it has been in the last few years of the central government, unfortunately Moors and Romsdal and a lot of others are in a bad state in the future. The Progress Party had in its budget for this year an increase to More and Romesdal of 30 million. In addition to the Government's proposals, and with the appropriations we have entered in our budgets in recent years, and what we want in the coming years, it will still be enough – even if the Eiksund link is expensive – to build in other areas of the Moors and the Romsdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e151	I would like to speak on a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e158	It's not a reason for a line. At the request of the Committee, the President has proposed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e161	We are currently considering a case in which the Stortinget is asked to make a decision on continued advance tolls for the Eiksund connection and expected construction start on Rv 653 in Møre and Romsdal according to the proposal submitted. The Eiksund link will provide a solid road link between the island municipalities of Hareid, Ulstein, Herøy and Sande, with a total of 22,000 inhabitants, and the continental municipalities of Ørsta and Volda, with a total of 18,000 inhabitants. Based on a socio-economic assessment, the development of the link is not profitable. However, it is important to point out that the relationship can have more positive societal effects. The island municipalities have a lot of industry, while the mainland municipalities have public services such as hospitals and colleges. The Christian People's Party would point out that a fixed road link could help to better link the district and expand the labour market and public and private services – which in turn could be beneficial for business and housing. However, the investment costs of the project are high, 750 million. 1999-krona. In the draft National Transport Plan 2002-2011, the Directorate-General for Road has proposed a regional investment framework for Møre and Romesdal of a total of 1050 million. NOK – 1 billion. For the first four-year period, 2002-2005, a framework of DKK 360 million has been proposed. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I think it is right to point out that this actually means very little to other priority areas in the county for many years to come, and it is also – I think – the county council and the municipalities aware of that. That is why the proposal for a decision has also been included. construction starts taking place under the condition that: ‘Top priority within the county-divided framework also in the national transport plan 2002-2011’. The frameworks of the national transport plan have not been defined – not yet addressed politically – so I am not going to say exactly what is going to lie there, but it is a good starting point to deal with the framework as it is set out today. Extra means, as referred to in the setting from the filling ring, are not available. All funds must be taken from the same framework and additional funds for a project must then be taken from elsewhere within the overall framework. The case has been submitted to the Stortinget with a financing plan that has not been addressed by local authorities. The Committee also takes the view that the necessary clarifications for local funding contributions and the necessary guarantees are available before plant start-up. The toll percentage of the project is low. The starting point now is usually 50-50, but here the majority of the committee has proposed 25-75, i.e. 25 pst. tolls/local contributions and 75 pst. State contribution. The Christian People's Party joins the majority vote on the continued right to demand advance tolls, except at one point. Together with the Centre Party and the Left, we would like to stress that lower toll rates and local subsidies than proposed in the Proposition mean that the Eiksund link will capture an even greater proportion of the district-divided framework for More and Romesdal. The same batches also point out that calculations show that there is a traffic basis for a maximum toll ratio of 20 pst, while the remaining 10 pst. is provided for as a local grant. The Christian People's Party, together with the Central Party and the Left, will therefore propose that in the financing arrangement for this connection the country's share is 70 pst. of the costs and tolls and local financing contributions 30 pst. I refer to the proposal for paragraph 2.b. in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e188	Mr. Kofoed-Larsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e191	Today is in many ways a very big day for South Sunnmare. It is an important decision The Stortinget should make today, leading the Eiksund Association a good step closer to realization. Some of the important things about this project is that it provides 22,000 people with continental connections, but from the Right side, it's mainly the regional impact we've been focusing on when we've joined forces to support this project. The project will provide an important region with a wide range of opportunities for development. We have in outer struts, in what is now an island community, perhaps the only complete maritime cluster in Norway, to use a foreword – i.e. the largest interrelated environment with production, market proximity and development opportunities from Here Island, which is Norway's largest fishing community, to the other municipalities, which are in absolute world class when it comes to different types of maritime industry. On the mainland side we have municipalities Ørsta and Volda with a versatile industry, large agricultural production and also very much public service as hospitals and hayskule. All in all, this gives a possibility for these two parts of the South Sun mortar to complement each other. Together, they create a gap in the labour market and in the hump opportunities that will give a completely different perspective in the future than if they were to remain separate. When I'm on company visits around small and large companies, it usually doesn't take long for the discussion to get on the road. This by having good communication, by having the ability to shrink distances and quickly get along with people and goods, emerges as the most important tool, much more important than more or less fine-tuning district policies. Good roads, good communications in other ways and favourable prices of fuels and other devices in the transport sector are the main emphasis of a community on business and also on citizens. It is said that this project is expensive – and it is expensive. But something that will give you a good effect in the future is also worth a few dollars. It'll be expensive for the community because there's a lot of tolls to be collected, it'll be expensive because this is a large amount that's still left, which has to be covered otherwise locally. And it's also clear that this relationship will take a large part of the promises to the Moors and Romesdal states for years to come. However, there has been a local agreement that this project should be carried out. More and Romesdal counties and some municipalities in the county have a long tradition of lifting together when it comes to large projects. Maybe we don't get the effect right away, but we know that when it comes to long-term development, this is the most important thing. The positive developments we are now seeing are coming, for example. in the Kristiansund region, would not be possible without the continental connection that Kristiansund got a few years ago. So the long-term effects of this are expected to be very big, even decisive for these communities. Local funding has been mentioned, among others. by the case-speaker, and it will make very high demands on the inhabitants of the region. There's been a very high local funding in addition to tolls, and I'm very happy that the majority in the committee have found it possible to go down from 30 pst. the self-financing proposed by the Government, to 25 pst. in this project. I believe that with the marginal ignition that this project has in many ways, this can be a decisive factor that makes it much more realistic to get to the project. For this purpose, it is necessary to combine packages that link funding. One is the 5 pst. the lower self-financing element for which the Committee has agreed, the second, which is also an important contribution, is the possibility to which it is now open – and where I disagree with the representative of the Progress Party – to continue to be able to demand pre-commitments for this project. Together, this will be closed - it will be closed. And with the decision being made today, there's a start to a new stage: now a few can clear up all the details and get started physically with this connection. It is a great pleasure to be involved in setting the political finish line for the Eiksund Association in Stortinget. But there was a very long process behind this, a little bit in the Storting, but to an even greater extent locally. It is right that it has been working for ten years, as the case-speaker said, but already 20 years before it was a start to work on the project Eiksundbrua in the community. There is reason to thank all the political bodies both in the municipalities and in the county that have worked very well on these matters. I shall not go into detail on the progress of this, just refer to what the case-speaker has said, where we also agree with the little criticism that came with regard to the financing plan. But there's a reason to be happy about what's happening today. Although there is a large multiple, there is also a certain minority, but it is a strength for the project that there is a heavy multiple behind what is down here. The political authorities in the municipalities and the county have done a great job, but it is small in relation to the very strong local involvement of a population reaction that showed the breadth of the population of this facility, and the great commitment of the industry in the region to document the need, demonstrating that this project is decisive for the development of both the maritime industries and industry. One should be very careful to bring out special people or organizations on such a day, but I still think that a person will catch up to be named from the Stortinget Chair on this day, and it's Knut Nærø, who has our driving force in good and bad days for the Eiksund connection. When it has butta opposed, he's been on, and he's been able to go with both the population and the business world, so let's say that on this day. Otherwise, there's not much new to add. As I said, I agree with the main content of what the case spokesperson said. Right is very positive about projects like this, and although there are some objections here, there's also a happy day for us in the Right that we can now get the Eiksund connection adopted, that we both get it approved as a toll project and get the extension of the time period for toll pre-claiming.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e212	Connecting island communities to the mainland with bridges or tunnels gives positive effects to business and busses. Although good ferry connections are great advances for many communities, ferry services can never give the same effect as a ferry-free connection. Holiday connections can best be compared with a way of running columns and closing nights. This will always have negative sides on it. Occurrence relationship is a project that wants to have positive regional effects. It will connect the region and give a larger bus and labour market area. The project will stimulate business development and make it more attractive to live in the area. The Oiksund connection is planned to be developed with a combination of tolls and state resources. At the same time, it is clear that the Eiksund link on several points does not comply with the guidelines for toll projects. The toll part will be approx. 20 pst, while the requirement is 50 pst. There is also no completed financing plan, as the requirement is. Based on these deficiencies, this is a toll project that can so definitely discuss the implementation of the project. According to the calculations we have, the project is also not profitable on the basis of socio-economic assessments. With a toll on approx. 20 pst. most of this project will have to be financed by More and Romesdal’s annual road maps. After the calculations for the project and the county frame that More and Romsdal have, it is said that this project will go off guard with the entire county frame for many years to come. A State's planning must take place on the basis of the known road construction framework. An adjustment of the total frame may improve the situation a little, but the consequences of the construction of the Eiksund link are that for a long time in the future there will be no room for other projects. At the same time, it is also known that Møre and Romsdal have other priority actions over the period 2002-2005. In order for the many other unresolved projects that are in More and Romesdal not to be pushed out unnecessarily in time, the Center Party believes that it must work to ensure that the toll section together with local funding contributions comes up to 30 pst. of the total cost. This will give room for new projects within the divided frame of a little bit – and I'll draw under a little – earlier than the plural set. However, due to the great positive effects of the Eiksund link on the region, the Centre Party will support a continuation when it applies to the pre-recovery of tolls for the project, even if this would mean going beyond what is normal for pre-recovery before starting a project. Support for the continuation of the pre-claim of tolls also means that the Centre Party is in favour of the construction of the Eiksund link. However, it is foreseen that this project will have to be given top priority within the framework of the national transport plan 2002-2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e230	It's a happy day on Sunnmøre, said case-rapporteur Ola Røtvej. But there is no rush in this debate on the Eiksund affair, a rather reserved enthusiasm, except for Løvik's intervention on the basis of more local considerations. You can wonder if the majority representatives believe in the project. They mostly talk about formalities, about making an exception, treating a project without the financing arrangements being completed by local authorities. A majority and a minority of trailers discuss whether there is a basis for a share of 25 or 30 pst. of toll revenue and local contributions. All lots except SV will end up about the project. However, it is based on the assumption that More and Romsdal give the Eiksund link the first priority within the national transport plan 2002–2011. Now we're getting closer to what should be the central theme. On the basis of the framework so far underpinned by Mr More and Mr Romsdal from the Directorate-General of Roads Trade, this means that five-six years of national road appropriations will go to this project in their entirety. That's what I'm talking five to six years without a penny for other projects, e.g. Shot bridge, which should have been redeemed long ago five to six years without a crown for racial protection – and here is the need for large five to six years without standard raising on bad highways, narrow roads with difficult curves and bottleneck problems five to six years without bet on walking and cycling roads This is not a clear question for the majority. Well, the frames can be slightly increased, but I don't think the county can rely on it. However, the costs of the project may also be increased on the basis of experience. I feel far from sure that the final sum would be 750 million. kr. The majority indicate that the county council of More and Romsdal want the Eiksund connection. They're probably expecting them in More and Romesdal to realize that they're taking the Eiksund connection, there won't be anything more in a few years. State politicians don't want to talk much about it either; they're probably hoping for a few extra dollars in the pot. The Christian People's Party representative Kofoed-Larsen suggested that this is a lot of the framework. The Jorunn Ringstad of the Center Party said it a little clearer. My challenge to my colleagues here, not least in the Labour Party and the Right, since they have spoken at least clearly about it, is: Can you not speak clearly about it, say from this pulp to give the Eiksund link a first priority, starting in 2002, to which the ministry puts up, means that Møre and Romsdal can put all other plans into the drawer and find them again in 2007. Do you have the courage for such open speech? This is my invitation to you. I did not mention the Progress Party. They also suggest that this will take a lot of the frame, but they have money for everything in road – and I don't take them as a serious party in this area – in this area either. I know what the decision will be here today. The representative Løvik said that there is a heavy majority in this room for, and took it into income for the project. So the majority here must be aware that you are being taken into income for the project. But then I think you're going to talk so clearly that when the county council in More and Romesdal is going to deal with this next time, they know that the Stortinget has said from: If you're still putting the Eiksund connection at the top, it means five-six years of drought on other national road projects in this county. I expect you to make the premises open before the debate is over. From the SV side, we will vote against the setting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e265	The president would think that Inge Myrvoll at such a long speed in Stortinget knew how to address the Stortinget, and just reminds me that all speeches are to go to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e268	There is joy and optimism in the county when now the Transport Committee has given a clear signal for the construction of the Eiksund link. This project has been working on it for years. Politicians, organisations, NHO, trade unionists and individuals have fought together to realize this connection. As a leader of the Møre bench, I am well aware of this road link, and we at the Møre bench have had several meetings with the various interest groups that are interested in getting this done. Now there's reason to be happy. A majority in the Committee on Transport has cut the Eiksund toll by 37 million. kr and open for faster construction start. The fact that we have reduced toll financing requirements means that road users do not pay as much toll. What I'm wondering is that the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left cannot be involved in this reduction, when we think back to 1997, when these parties promised a better financing of the transport project, and we also know that there are people in the Government who come from More and Romesdal. I'll be allowed to give you a little bit of information about what this connection will mean for the region. The Eiksund connection will provide a ferries-free continental connection for the island municipalities of Hareid, Herøy, Sande and Ulstein, where it lives approx. 22,000 people. In the municipalities of Volda and Ørsta there are 18 000 people. This connects a region with almost 40,000 people. This link will provide island municipalities with much easier access to a varied school offer at a higher school level. As Stortinget is familiar with, we have a good high-spherical offer in Volda. A person is given easier access to hospital services and to the regional aerodrome. The attractive outdoor areas in the mountains and the area will be easier to access, and we will have a more varied labour market, where women will have access to jobs. The region has a large industrial environment, both within shipbuilding, furniture and fisheries. Public and private services can also be better coordinated and can provide better services to users. We have had and still have major challenges in the transport sector in More and Romesdal. We have previously built the Atlantic Road, Krifast with the mainland link to Kristiansund, we have built bridges and tunnels, but we still have the South Sunnmaere region, which has been unconnected with the mainland, and now this connection can become a reality. I don't want to hide that there's a difference of opinion about the Eiksund connection, and that this relationship will cost More and Romsdal a lot of money and draw money from other projects in the state. More and Romsdal have too low promises for national roadblocks, and we lack money for racial protection. Important projects such as the second stage of race protection at Rv 650 in Stordal and along the Austefjord at Rv 651 in Volda are not completed due to too few promises. In the future, we will need monthly more means to protect our roads, so that the existing roads are also safe for our citizens and for our business. Our business is struggling with total transport costs of 50 pst. higher than in countries with which we compete. This is a distortion of competition we need to look at carefully. Increased investment is necessary for the future for our export-right business. This is a question I'm not going to address right now, which we'll be able to deal with later in the budgetary negotiations. But I want to end by saying that I am quite satisfied that we have received the Eiksund project in port – I hope we do today – and that we can start building in 2001, so that users of this link can enjoy earlier construction start than was planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e289	An extension of the Eiksund link will connect a region with about 40,000 people and provide a ferry-free connection for the island municipalities of Hareid, Herøy, Sande and Ulstein, as other speakers have affected. It is essential for the region that the communication offer is well developed. This is particularly important for the industry of the island municipalities concerned. Realising the Eiksund link has a positive social impact. The island municipalities of Hareid, Ulstein, Herøy and Sande have a lot of industry, while the mainland municipalities of Ørsta and Volda maintain the public offer, such as hospitals and colleges. A fixed road link will help to better link the district, and the public and private service provision will be expanded. Nor is there any doubt that the labour market in the region will also notice what a more predictable and efficient transport will mean. Such effects of a road project will again have a positive impact on both business and housing. The Eiksund compound is intended to cost about 750 million. kr, and shall be financed by a combination of State resources, tolls and local contributions. There will always be significant uncertainty about the forecast of the level of bomb revenue. The government believes it is important to base such predictions on some assumptions — rather to be positively surprised. Based on just such sober assumptions, the Road Directorate has estimated the toll share for this project at 135 million. kr, or 18 pst. If More and Romsdal County provide a guarantee for the toll company's borrowing, this will result in a lower borrowing rate, and the toll ratio will rise to 150 million. kr, or 20 pst. The expected traffic base of the Eiksund link cannot be assumed to give a toll ratio of more than 20 pst. The State share of the project would subsequently amount to approximately 615 million. kr. In the proposal for a national transport plan for 2002-2011, the Directorate-General for Road Transport has proposed a distributed investment framework for the road sector for Møre and Romesdal for a total of DKK 1 billion. For the first four-year period, 2002-2005, a framework of 360 million has been proposed. kr. The government's proposal for a final framework for highways in More and Romesdal will be clarified in the context of the national transport plan. Realising the Eiksund link will take a significant part of the roadframe of Møre and Romsdal for the next ten years, and it is therefore a fundamental prerequisite that the county prioritises the project at the top of the national transport plan, which I have noticed that the Transport Committee has also joined. In order to achieve the Eiksund link in the period 2002-2005 — with an estimated toll ratio of up to 20 pst. and with the financial framework underpinned by the National Transport Plan Report, the Government has also had to require a relatively significant local contribution. I've noticed that the majority of people use a state funding base of 75 pst. and tolls and local contributions of 25 pst, respectively. In my view, however, it would not be unreasonable here to require a local contribution of 30 pst. including the share of tolls, as proposed by the Government, when it is known that the general rule of toll projects is that half of the costs are covered by tolls and/or local funding. Here the state assumes a much larger share than its 50 pst., which of course leads to an increased need for government funding for the project. With reduced toll percentage and local contribution from 30 to 25 pst. The Eiksund Association will take an even greater share of the district-divided framework for highways in Møre and Romesdal. It is not common to present a conditional proposition, nor is it common to provide the Storting with a financing plan that has not been finalised locally. I therefore take note of the comments made by the Committee on Transport and, of course, will follow this up. But I would like to remind you that there has been a strong commitment both locally and in Stortinget to get the matter up to Stortinget immediately. It has been taken into account by the Government through the presentation of this proposition – without further delay. After Stortinget has made its decision, I want to make sure that the necessary contacts are made to clarify the final financing plan and start-up time for the Eiksund connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e308	I think it's a big day on South Sunnmore today. Yes, I still think there's a big day in More and Rome's valley when the Stortinget now decides that the Eiksund connection can be realised from the premises in the setting. There has been a great deal of detail about the project locally on the South Sunnmare in the municipalities it is in, but also in the county context. I myself have a seat in the county council and treat the Eiksund connection in the 1980s. Finally, it seems that a political work is to be achieved, and we can have a continental relationship for 20,000 people. It's probably the largest concentration of people who don't have a continental connection, who can see light in the tunnel today, to say it that way. These four islands, which are now connected to the mainland, have built bridges before; they are connected to bridges. The people have gone together and funded a lot of this through tolls. I also thought it right to note that these bridges have actually been paid off before time, so that the trees have been removed up to several years before it was planned, as then one built the last bridge out to Round. It is clear that the cost-benefit in itself, in isolation, is low on this project. We're going to have to take note of that. But I thought maybe both the department and the directorate, and maybe even here in the Stortinget, should put some kind of question mark on the basic element of the dietary benefit factor. Maybe there's some criterion that's missing to get the real cost-benefit of such a project, as isolated, if one uses the cost-benefit key and the criteria that apply today, will get a low cost-benefit factor? Having said that, I would also argue that when a single labour market opens up to 40,000 people, it will not appear in a cost-benefit key with the criteria underlying it today. The regional benefits – which, at least as we live up there, know will have a big impact and have a lot to say – are not reflected in the cost-benefit key that we use today. The fact that a common labour market can be linked to a high-employee labour market, both within marine technology and within the Ørsta and Volda high-level areas, the possibility of having daily contact with large jobs that may fill each other here will not appear in such a cost-benefit key. But it's of great value to the business community in the district that we spend a few dollars and a few cents trying to get the relationship right. It's a disadvantage in Norway that distances are long. And then I thought it would make sense – when one sees the possibilities that lie there – to use some means to trigger a road project that is so valuable to as many people as this actually applies. What we should be aware of is that the local ownership of many activities is gradually decreasing, and the reasons for being in the district may no longer be present unless the communications allow it. Otherwise, I also feel that it is right to remind the centre party of the promises they made in the 1997 elections. I think it would be unnecessary for the Council of State to stand here and talk about low limits if one had kept the promise that one would spend 5 billion more dollars on road projects in this period – which has now been three years away – than the Workers' Party provided. So far, one has not even used the Labour Party's budget. Otherwise it's interesting to note the SV's hold when it comes to this project, and remember how the hold was to another failure project, namely FATIMA.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e327	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e330	The decision of the Stortingen to finance the Rv 653 Eiksund link is an important step for the Møre and Romsdal counties, and in particular for the development of Sunnmøre. Whether this is an important developmental step in communication, the cause also has a positive impact on business and housing, while the district is better connected. Furthermore, the labour market areas and public and private services will be expanded geographically. Good communications are decisive for the decentralized establishment and development of business in More and Romesdal. Good communications and safe roads are also a good means of preventing deportation and thus ensuring the safety of the bus in the county. From this point of view, I am aware that, in its 1998-2007 Road Plan priorities, Mr More and Mr Romsdal set up the Eiksund link as the first of five bombing projects, which are important regional links in order to prevent deportation and ensure rural settlement. In addition to regional links, priority has been given to national road links, racial protection, fixed coverage on national roads, dangerous bottlenecks and county road installations. However, with so many unsolved road sector tasks, many people today are very pleased that the Government has raised the issue of financing the Eiksund link for the Stortinget decision. With the option currently in place, the Government has had an impact on the financing model, with the exception of the proposal for a toll part/local financing of 30 pst. When the plural has chosen 25 pst. instead of 30 pst, it's about 37.5 million. kr more in consumption of the county investment framework for the planned period 2002-2005. It will, of course, prevent the implementation of other pressing tasks in the county, which was a decisive reason for the Government's 10 pst local co-financing proposal. When the majority in Stortinget supports the principle of local participation, but limits it to 5 p.p., the task of local authorities and businesses will now be to provide these funds locally, so that the project can be fully funded. Many and long work sessions are the basis for this case to come this far. They're all worth thanking, and I'm glad to have the decision Stortinget has to make later today. And with the support of all the positive forces behind this case, I believe that both local funding and the realisation of the project could be done according to the progress plan that the Stortinget is now using.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e341	The Eiksund connection has had many years to mature. And now the time has come to take decisions in this matter, which is to establish a continental connection for the islands on the south slope of More and Romesdal. This project requires large victims of the local population, a total of 30 pst. after the scheme from the Government. In spite of this, I am sure that a local will meet the challenges this will require. This county, which has now been the leading export community in our country, has strong traditions of coating even when required. The switch from sea-hosted to land-host transport in this island and fjord landscape has posed incredible geographical challenges. The landscape, which is one of the finest we have in this country, has been measured by some small hand-made adjustments in order to benefit from the means of communication we have here today. The fact that More and Romsdal state prioritise this facility on top is my hope. I am aware that this will be a painful process for many state politicians – but necessary. This was also the case when Krifast was seen on top and executed. At that time, the rest of the county had to wait for a longer period of time with its well-founded connection. On the site we see today that it will become a part of the available capacity. This may help the Eiksund connection and other relationships. Among other things, it seems that the timing can be beneficial on the cost side, so it is only to want the actors to close up with the process and implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e352	The representative Inge Myrvoll said in his statement about the Eiksund Association that the Progress Party has money for everything, and he therefore does not take the party seriously on road issues. I have to say that SV is not less noise when it comes to unprofitable routes where these are paid with the car drivers' money. The difference between the Progress Party and SV is that while the Progress Party will use the money that the drivers have already paid for road development, SV will tax the drivers once again. This is almost stealing from the drivers. What the Progress Party will use for road development has already been paid in, and there is even more to be done, for example. the railway. With regard to the Eiksund Association, we make an exception regarding funding, as the link will replace the ferry. There is local agreement on this matter. But I see the danger that other projects in More and Romesdal must then be put on ice. If, on the other hand, the money paid by the drivers to the state fund is allocated, it will be possible to improve the road network both in More and Romesdal and in the rest of Norway. Unfortunately, it seems that only the Progress Party has the political will to say no to double taxation through bombing routes where alternative reversions are not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e361	In order not to discharge my information responsibility, I would like to remind you of what can be read from the proposition, that the trade union did not recommend the project and the progress. It is thus a political matter from the Government, which will always be the promotion of a government proposition – a total assessment. The decisions taken today will also be political decisions in this House, which must be the natural decisions. When it comes to the progress of the project, I said in my first post that I would follow this up continuously after the decision in the hall has been made. I am pleased that the Government has agreed to the principle in its proposal. But there's been a question: how could you put 30 pst., and what was the reason for that compared to the 50 pst. requirement, which is the standard decision? Then there was a balance that had to be made in relation to the standard rule that Stortinget has previously adopted, namely 50 pst. A unanimous committee said in connection with the treatment of Rv 35 Lunner-Gardermoen, where we were also down to the 20s in the toll context: ‘The Committee assumes that such a low toll ratio will be the exception and not the rule for future toll projects’.» It has had to be read by the Council of State and the Government as the leader of the work ahead, and the balance between the leadership of the committee and the general requirement of the Storting for 50 pst. coverage of toll-funded projects, it is natural to discuss further in the context of the national transport plan, presented later in spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e373	I have often wondered what the carists are. We have a car in my family too, but we have never thought of ourselves as drivers. We've thought of ourselves as human beings. ‘Bilism’ is a concept, but ‘bilists’ are not a concept to me. I'm actually busy creating a society that works for people, not for the drivers, what kind of group it is now. But we have to take that debate on motorism and motorists in a different context. I noticed that the representative Lodve Solholm referred to our position in the ‘another failure project’ – that was a direct quote. I wonder if there is a danger that he might be told the truth, because that does mean that he believes that the Eiksund connection will also be a failure project, since he said "any other failure project". I believe that the Eiksund Association and FATIMA have some similarities, namely that they can have positive regional effects on the communities affected. I have not denied that when it comes to the Eiksund connection either. But it's on priorities. I think Finnmark is quite bitter that they were not allowed to do anything with their winter-covered roads – Nordkinnvegen or the road to Havøysund, they were not allowed to do anything with racial protection in the Stallogargo flights etc. – because for many years their entire paddock went down into the tunnel, and what was associated with that tunnel. I'm afraid the same thing is going to happen when it comes to the Eiksund connection, which is that in retrospect they say, "Oh, that's not how we thought it!" I think the representative of Kaland somehow affected it when she said it was necessary to do something about racial protection etc. Now, a majority in the Committee has said – and this includes the Workers' Party – that racial protection should be part of the ordinary framework in the future. That means that if you put the Eiksund connection at the top, then the racial protection projects come to the fore, and that's what you'll learn to live with. And then you get to say open to them that it's about: Sorry, we've put Eiksund on top, the other things are coming up. I've tried to challenge some other parties here to be so clear in their speech and say that's the consequence. I have been met by silence and take it as consent. I take it in agreement that the other parties in Stortinget agree with me that More and Romsdal are going to experience five-six years of drought on all other projects – on racial protection, on walking and cycling roads, etc. – when you start at the Eiksund Association, and thus the majority, through me, have expressed it, so that the county council in Møre and Romesdal are aware of it when they have their final reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e389	At the end of the debate I'm not going to sum up that much, but I have to say that there's a lot of commitment on road issues, also here in the hall. As the case rapporteur for all road issues in the committee, I could have wanted everyone to get in the way to get more money for the road sector – to give me a little heartache. Then we should have started many more projects, because the needs are many. The councils were in the 50-50 distribution, and that's right. The general rule is that there should be 50-50 distribution between state and toll. That, as far as I can see, continues to underlie Stortinget. At the same time, it is also open that there may be a higher toll ratio, and then the consequence of that is that we open up so that there may also be a lower toll ratio. But the main rule must be 50-50. If you don't add 50 pst. on both sides, there will be an unreasonable distribution around the country, I think, if you want to provide the most realistic predictions for toll revenue. The representative Jørgen Holte insisted that 25 p.m. That means 37 million more in heads of state. Yes, it does. But I want to say that what the majority has suggested provides a more realistic basis for the full funding of the project. The representative Myrvoll has on several occasions asked whether the majority has the courage to say what this means for More and Romesdal. I would like to start with the following consideration: In my own county, we have now used a lot of the riksvegram for a project that is connected to the mainland for Hitra and Fröya in two road planning periods. I believe that it is worth every penny, because it is a region that has flourished to the greatest extent since the mainland connection decision came. When the representative Myrvoll says that we add up to five-six years of drought, that is not correct. There will be no five-six years of drought for More and Romesdal at all, but More and Romsdal choose to spend the money in a part of the county over a period of time – but they will not dry in the case of narcotics for More and Romesdal. At the same time, the representative also questions the cost estimate. Then I have to say that I wonder where the representative Myrvoll has the figures from, for what has been submitted to Stortinget, shows that we have a cost estimate for this project of plus/minus 10 pst., which Stortinget will have when Stortinget takes up the project for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e403	Obviously, even representatives from the same country, with Norwegian as their main language, may have difficulty grasping the shades of tone and language, so let me make it clear: my main goal was to name another tunnel project. The representative of Solholm said in the debate when it was agreed in Stortinget, that it was going to be a failure project, that it was going to crack down to those degrees, and that it actually wouldn't have any good regional impact either – it was FATIMA. That's what went on, sir. Myrvoll into. He also talked about the cost estimate for this project, the Eiksund connection, which has come down to plus/minus 10 pst. - who is a leader. We think of the cost estimate for FATIMA. It has per cent. date spoken with 58 pst. in 1992-krona, a project that was said to cost 625 or 628 million. kr, but today it is approaching $1 billion in 1992. There was a project for which the representative Myrvoll went in, at least his party, knowing that it had to lead to a certain drought elsewhere. But it is clear that regardless of whether the Eiksund connection is built or not, there will be drought in More and Romesdal if SV's road millionaires are to be what matters to More and Romesdal. But if SV, and the representative Ola Røtweg, who had a heart attack on more money, joins the Advance Party, there will be more money going on across the country. After the usual principal calculation, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have multiples in this room, so that it can be done. And there's a big difference in cost estimates, here's a plus-minus now. We in More and Romesdal have actually prioritised the Eiksund connection. We've said we want to. And we're aware that if the Storting won't follow up with an extra frame, it might be a while until we can manage some other big projects. I also know that people in More and Romesdal put their trust in the Prime Minister from More and Romesdal and the Minister of Finance from More and Romesdal when they promised us $5 billion more for a road strike over the period 1997-2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e412	Now, like the representative Nistad, the representative Solholm has turned to the great heights above the proposals for road appropriations resulting from the budget of the Progress Party. But it is true that the Progress Party has participated in a budgetary settlement both for the 1998 financial year and for the 1999 financial year. And as far as I recall, there was not one ear's difference from the government's proposals to the road budget in dealing with them – there was no increase in the transport appropriations. On the contrary, the framework for trade was reduced, if I do not remember very incorrectly, during the total budgetary negotiations in the relevant years. Then I can also remind the representatives of Nistad and Solholm that the current year's budget has therefore been adopted with a clarification in the Financial Committee, where the framework for transport was actually increased. Perhaps it would have been more useful for the Progress Party to meet the Labour Party in the follow-up to budgetary settlements than the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e421	What the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen said is unclear and incorrect. We had to make budgetary settlements at the centre of both 1998 and 1999, that's right. But we actually managed with the Right to push the center to add another 150 million. kr, and the 150 million were spent on projects that were in progress, so that not a whole series of projects would stop. That's the actual ratio. If the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is very concerned that there will now suddenly be more money for the road sector, just as the representative Ola Røtvej has requested here, we shall gladly accept the extended hand of the Workers' Party and participate in ensuring that there is more money for the road sector. We're open, we're clear, it's just on the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e428	If the representative Nistad correctly recalls, he will remember that both in the 1998 budget agreement in the Financial Committee and in 1999 in the Financial Committee, the framework for trade was reduced, as far as I recall. This was not the case in the budget negotiations and in the budgetary conciliation for the year 2000. Then it is true that an attempt was made to cancel it by internal redistribution in dealing with the framework of the Committee on Transport. That's right. However, it remains to be seen that the representative Nistad and the Progress Party were behind the draft budget presented by the Government in the previous year, with a significant cut in total road investment, without the result being negotiated an increase in the framework for transport during the examination of the overall budgetary framework by the Financial Committee. Adjustments within them were made, as I said, at the hearing of the Committee on Transport, which is quite correct. I think you should be a little careful to get the ‘enormous’ bet on transportation when you don’t have better results to refer to than the Progress Party has had when they have had the opportunity to influence beyond entering their own numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e437	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1847]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e451	Document No The 8th proposal by the representative Steinar Bastesen to amend the law on protection so that unauthorised fishermen under the age of 18 can be included in the B issue of the fishing crew has been handled by the Judicial Committee. A group of Justice Departments has come to realize that there is no need for a change in the law of defence in order to achieve this right even if one is under 18 years of age. The Verjemmålsgesetz today gives us the opportunity to mention relief protection, and here I see the first paragraph of Section 16 of the Act. By being named an aid worker, all under 18 will be able to fish as self-employed, something that a collective Justiscomite sees as very positive. Appointed helpers get one by turning to the head office of the home municipality where a cage. As I said, the Judicial Committee does not find any reason to amend the Law on Civil Protection. I would like to stress that a group of Justice Departments is very positive that we have young people under 18 who are willing to engage in their own activities, in this kind of fishing, but – as I said – today's Verjemsmål is not an obstacle to this. Otherwise, I see the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e464	When there is a unanimous vote by the Committee, it is a bit difficult to have any influence on this. But I must say that I am disappointed with the proposal that you have made. What's taken up here is a problem that I know very well, and which I hope could have found a proper solution. It is paradoxical that people under the age of 18 but over 16 have the opportunity to be on page B – and they go many times for the purchase of fishing boats in the million class – but then they have to be registered in the business register in order to be able to fish at all, and they have no reason to do so. Well, that's got to be worth it. I can see from the committee opinion that the committee believes that the situation is well taken care of. It is so nice to talk about giving young people responsibility, etc., so that they can eventually become good citizens of society. The attitude is, in my opinion, a mistrust of the youth. I, who come from this environment, constantly meet young people who see this problem, headlong that others have not yet understood it. The Committee considers that the intentions of the proposal are important. If these intentions were so important, maybe you should have done something about it. As a heart attack: the proposal had deserved a better destiny, especially from the perspective of the new youth starters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e475	When I take the floor on this matter, it is because I want to stress that the Committee is fully aware that there are people in the situation as contained in Document No. The 8th proposal by Mr Bastesen refers to. At the same time, however, the Committee wishes to ensure that these young people are given the opportunity to pursue a profession in such a way that public law does not hinder active fishing participation. That is what is in the Committee's position, and it must be due to a misunderstanding when the representative Falch interprets this as a refusal and the young people shake their heads – at least it cannot be of what is being adopted today. The very wording of the proposal of the representative, Mr Bastesen, is probably due to an assessment of the law that needs to be amended. The Judicial Committee, through the replies of the Minister of Justice and through the answers given to the representative Mr Bastesen in this Chamber, has gained clarity – and is convinced – that it is not the law to which it is referred, which needs to be amended because it is not an obstacle. However, if there are other laws, other rules, which belong to other departments, which restrict the possibility, the Committee asks the Minister of Justice to contact the other departments for which this might be relevant, and to ensure that the obstacles that may exist are removed. There is a positive attitude to young people who want to do a lot of work, and the law should not prevent them from doing so. That's what the committee in a unanimous vote actually says.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e482	It's pointed out, but I can repeat it: there is no legal age limit to register in the Business Register. There is also, as pointed out by the committee, the possibility of getting help workers, so that I can see that the law has the means to find a practical solution. But I have of course recorded that the Committee believes that the Minister of Justice should consider whether there are practical obstacles that prevent these practical solutions. I'm going to follow that up, of course, so I'm going to confirm that from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e487	It was the representative of Falch who made it necessary to speak. When he uses that statement about the attitude that it is ‘a distrust of youth’, he has either not read what it says there, or he has come here with an opinion that conditions are quite different from the possibilities that exist in reality. Our starting point is that we will facilitate recruitment to the fishing profession, and the conclusion will facilitate the realisation of the intention of the representative Bastesen's proposal. Knowing that there is a great deal of legislation in the field of fisheries, another important point – which was also addressed by Finn Kristian Marthinsen – is that any obstacles that may lie there must be removed, and we want coordination between departments. So really it should not be necessary to say anything else here than what the case-rapporteur did initially, namely to sum up what the matter is about: we want a recruitment for the fishing profession, we want young people to go into the fishing profession, we also want young people to become owners of their own boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e494	I think it is right to state that you are not as reprehensible as the representative Falch said. Although the Committee does not recommend the proposal of the representative of Bastisen to amend the protection law so that fishermen of the age of 16 and on page B of the number of fishermen may be registered in the Business Register, the Progressive Party supports the intention of the proposer. In this context, we agree to ask the Ministry of Justice to contact the departments concerned to clarify that other laws, such as: the fisheries legislation and the rules governing the registration of undertakings, etc.; is not in the way of the content of Document No. 8:3 from Bastisen can be put to life. Fishermen under the age of 18 must have seniors, primarily parents. It's fixed. Since fishing legislation is such that a person cannot participate both in one-off quota fishing and in vessel quota fishing, problems may arise with parents who are vulnerable if they also own a boat. But in our view, the question raised is: Can this be regulated by a special legislation, if any? That is what the Committee states in its comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e499	It is Mr Falch's statement that the majority position implies a mistrust of the youth, which means that I have to make a few comments. Now that we have been confirmed through the debate that not only a unanimous committee but also the Council of State promises to ensure that there are no practical obstacles to the intention of the vote, this is an expression of the very opposite of the mistrust of the youth. This is an expression of a positive attitude towards youth. I would like to express my recognition to the Coastal Party that they have travelled and have this important matter clarified. Then you shouldn't be so eager in that context that the best is done for the good enemy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e506	The point in this case is that young people under the age of 18 and over 16 cannot be registered in the Business Register. That's the whole point. And when you try to fix this, the setting does not carry a bid for anything more. You're not here anymore. You're at the same level as you've been. You accept the state of things. You're comfortable with them. That's what the Justice Committee says. It should be clear that this is a profession which may not be comparable to other professions. They have much harder conditions, and they may feel it more on the body – many times with life as an effort. Nevertheless, they shall not be able to clean up their own house. They shall not be able to carry out this with the VAT. Then they must have a guardian. That's the whole point, and you'll try to change this. But we're not here anymore. I'm just recording it, and I'm sorry. I also take this as a mistrust of the youth – that you have not come any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e513	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1848]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e521	Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e529	During the debate, Mr Kofoed-Larsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote. The proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left reads: ‘2. b. The proportion of tolls and local funding contributions is 30 pst. of the total costs.’» The voting boards showed that 73 votes were cast against and 29 votes in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 11.40.14]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e545	A little misunderstanding. I voted in favour of voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e552	So the numbers are going to be 28 and 74.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e555	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e562	In the same direction? The correct figures then become 75 votes against and 27 votes in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left. Then the president hopes there are no more confessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e577	The Progressive Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-01.ana.ud1110e614	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
