ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e51	The matter we are dealing with now is an important matter. It is an acceptance that one can acquire knowledge in different ways, not only by the traditional way through school; one can also acquire knowledge and experience through work and life experience, real skills, knowledge and experience that will provide the basis for admission to universities and colleges. This is the broad political consensus on it. It is a follow-up to the reform of competences, where a majority in the United Kingdom was aware that real competences should also provide a basis for admission to universities and colleges. In addition, we have raised a topic related to this matter, which is what goes on in general study competence for those who are under 25 years of age. For those over 25 years of age, this amendment of the law will solve the problem. We have a system today that is such that to be admitted to universities and colleges, one has to have five chosen subjects and a certain depth in these subjects, what we call general study competence. We believe that linking study skills to these five subjects is gradually not unique. We therefore want a general opening for those who have completed high school, regardless of the degree level, to have study competence. Today's system adds up to, and in many cases leads to, those who start a vocational training course on a basic course, VK I, ending after two years and taking what we call a supplementary year in order to gain study competence. We believe that it is unfortunate that a person instead of completing a race one has started, until a letter of formal notice, drops off after two years and takes a build-up and acquires study competence in that way. We think it is more appropriate that a person completes the course, gets vocational training, and then, if a person wants to start a course after he has completed the course, he should be open to it because he has thus completed the secondary school. We think it's a better way, and it's also a natural consequence of the change that we've now made for those who get study competence through real-life competence. I'll take up our suggestion, which is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e60	Rolf Rikvam has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e63	I think it is right, for the sake of order, to clarify why we cannot vote in favour of the proposal that was just taken up. It is partly because, as the representative Rikvam himself pointed out, it has nothing to do with the matter, but it is a completely independent topic that is not in the case the Stortinget deals with, and secondly, that the reason given for the proposal, at my discretion, is very little logical. The rationale is that it is a natural follow-up to the reform of real competences to lower the list in terms of the definition of general study competence. There's no such logical context. If there is a context, it should move towards the opposite conclusion, namely that the reform could be a justification for strengthening the requirements of general study competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e68	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 45]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e82	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of response following the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and following contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e93	The financial committee's attitude to the new pension law is an important contribution to building the class distinction between those who have pension schemes in working conditions and those close to a million workers who currently have only the benefits of popular security to fall back on when they become pensioners. Many small and medium-sized enterprises that have previously found traditional animal performance schemes will now consider the deposit schemes to be more economically affordable and predictable. It is high time that deposit schemes were also introduced in Norway. These are pension schemes which have proved to work as well internationally for employees as for benefit schemes, while the deposit schemes have proved to be less economically risky for each individual enterprise. A contribution pension is characterised by the payment by the employer of a specific annual amount into a holding account. The old-age pension paid consists of contributions paid and their return. In today's labour market there is a strong need for greater flexibility and freedom of choice in the design of social insurance schemes. While all public sector workers have good and guaranteed occupational pension schemes, only every third employee in the private sector has occupational pension schemes in addition to social security. The decline in population protection in the last few decades, the additional pension burden, has created a need and a desire for new occupational pension schemes. This can be illustrated by the following calculation example: if you have made 300,000 kroner on average through your professional career, which is a few thousand dollars below the average labour income in Norway according to the national budget, you will receive a pension of 145000 kroner. If you earn 300,000 kroner, you get a people's pension of 145 000 kroner. If you have a public service pension that gives you a degree of compensation of 66 pst. and has earned NOK 300,000 throughout your career, and you will be left with an annual pension of approximately EUR 300,000. NOK 197,000. So the millions of employees who have no occupational pension will get a pension of 145000 kroner, and those who have a occupational pension will get an annual pension of nearly 200,000 kroner. This creates a class distinction between pensioners who have not been in focus enough, and we believe that there is a greater opportunity to rectify when you also have the deposit schemes established, because there are many companies that think that the traditional performance schemes are too expensive, and not least too unpredictable. You want to commit to an annual payment, but nothing more than that. This recognition has actually also entered the LO, which has now turned around in this case. The LO has been one of those who have supported the establishment of deposit schemes because it can offer many of those who do not have occupational retirement provision. A recent survey showed that 4000 enterprises that do not have pension schemes plan to set up deposit schemes, and that is a promising start, although it is well up to the million without a pension scheme in employment. I also think that when you compare, for example. the level of wages and salaries in the private sector with the public sector is understood to mean that in the public sector there are not only net pension schemes, there are gross pension schemes, and everyone has them. As I said, only a third in the private sector has it. In fact, the government estimates in the national budget that up to 40000 employees will receive occupational pension schemes until next year as a result of the establishment of defined contribution schemes. There has been considerable progress in improving the legislation on occupational pension schemes in Norway through the treatment of the law on occupational retirement provision in spring and now in the establishment of the deposit scheme. In dealing with both laws, the size has made changes to the draft law which, in my view, will increase the prevalence of occupational pensions in the private sector, give greater flexibility and freedom of contract, and raise people's awareness of pension saving. The Financial Committee, as I have mentioned, has been in favour of a number of amendments to the Government's legislative proposals. Among other things, parallel schemes are open, which allows for a contribution pension and a corporation pension in the same enterprise. The Government is assumed to review the rules of operation with a view to simplifying and modernising the framework conditions as soon as possible. This review will, hopefully, enable insurance companies to offer simpler and easier-to-understand pension products also in competition with foreign operators, and there will also be a more level playing field for life companies in competition with others who can deliver the type of savings products. The Financial Committee also expresses a positive attitude towards hybrid schemes, which allows for a defined contribution pension scheme at the top of an occupational pension scheme. In other words, many private sector enterprises do not have the same level of compensation as public sector enterprises. Several of the major companies have a compensation rate of 60 pst. You might give something in addition, but then you don't take the risk of a degree of compensation of 66 or 70 pst. -- you put a deposit scheme on top of it. I think one should have the opportunity to do that, and hope that the review that the government is asked to do at that point will also conclude in that way. The Committee has opted for a higher maximum deposit rate than that provided by the Government and for an embellishment of the rules on collective capital formation. The proposal for a mandatory annual zero-percent guarantee lapses. If the Government had proposed a mandatory annual zero-percent guarantee – contrary to the clear recommendation of the Banking Authority – it would have been very unfortunate. It would have dampened the opportunities to take risks and, in the next round, the potential for higher returns, which would have resulted in a more reasonable pension product, so that several companies had been able to deliver a product to the million without occupational pensions today. The majority of the Committee rejects the proposal on tax restraints on contribution funds and deposit funds, and I also hope that there will be a majority at the same time when the government budget is being dealt with. It was in the latter document that the Government proposed restrictions. On the one hand, the Government wants more people to receive occupational pensions, while at the same time increasing taxation as a result. Where's the logic? The possibility of closing existing performance schemes has also been opened up by the Committee in order to give those currently in a benefit scheme the right to remain in the scheme until retirement. Cohabitation definitions shall be coordinated with other legislation in the field of insurance, which is an essential requirement of the Committee. The Government's proposals in the context of the State budget on tax cuts have been rejected by the Committee, and hope, as I have mentioned earlier, that this will also be followed up now in the negotiations that will take place in the future in the Grand Duchy on the budget. Regulatory changes have also been made to sub-contractors so that product design can be more flexible. In fact, some changes have been made along the way by the Committee. A part is performed directly in the law now and will take effect when the law enters into force. At the same time, however, there are also some constitutionally binding decisions currently in force, with which the Government is asked to review and return to the Grand Duchy, for a proper review is required. I hope that the Government will do so as soon as possible, and hopefully in connection with the proposition announced in the autumn for a review of corporate pension and investment funds in those pension schemes. If you don't have time for that, I hope it won't wait too long, and that you'll give feedback on what the committee has now asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e127	Nearly one million workers in Norway currently have no pension beyond the level of social security for pensioners. For many, it becomes an unpleasant surprise. Because it's the way that only the very lowest wage earns today a pension from popular security that's pretty much in proportion to the salary you had as an active worker. But this can help the Storting to do something about today, when the deposit pension law is now passed and soon implemented. This is a new possibility for almost one million workers. It is very much appreciated by the Workers' Party. Retirement pensions will make it easier to obtain pension schemes in several enterprises, so that as many employees as possible can secure a better pension than the amount of social security that can be provided. When a defined contribution pension with tax exemptions is in place, we hope that several employers will set up a pension scheme for their employees. This law is therefore a victory for those workers who do not yet have an occupational pension. Only the future will show whether employers are willing to give employees who are currently without a pension scheme the opportunity to join the pension scheme. ‘Worker party got pension Christmas’, we could read in the Financial Newspaper on 13 October. No, that's not right. The working party is pleased that the law is now going through in Stortin-get. Those who received Christmas from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Centre Parties are the workers who, hopefully, will be part of the deposit pension scheme in the future, because, in relation to the proposal presented by the Government, the rules have been amended on a number of important points. This would weaken the ability of employees to obtain the best possible pension when retirement comes. However, it is clear here that employers’ concerns are much more important than the consideration of employees and those who will receive pensions in the future. With regard to many of the provisions in which the majority has a different view from the Workers' Party, they have asked the Government to come back with new proposals. Given that this is a law that is very complicated, and that the proposals have to be feasible not only on paper, but also in practice, the possibilities are that we might get a new extra round. The Labour Party would like to re-examine these important areas. The pension scheme is weakened in significant areas. The possibility of having parallel arrangements, as regards the closure of the scheme, is given to the zero guarantee in schemes where the entity holds the investment fund and to flexibility in the deposit plan. In the Government's proposal, it is not possible to have parallel arrangements in the same company. Nevertheless, the majority is in favour of its being allowed. The Labour Party believes that it will be very difficult to ensure equal treatment if the employees are not members of the same scheme. Parallel schemes will be based on different principles. We do not want to allow those who have worked in the company for a while, and new employees to be offered different pension schemes. We don't believe that it creates a good working environment in the company. We also do not want any of the employees, e.g. the high-wages shall be capable of being offered a better scheme than other employees in the same enterprise. Experience from the defined benefit schemes is that enterprises make great use of the potential to provide high pensions for high pay. There is therefore good reason to believe that opportunities for combined and parallel schemes will be systematically and deliberately exploited to provide high-wage conditions better than the low-wages. The working party considers it difficult to draw up accurate guidelines to ensure equality between a defined contribution scheme and a defined benefit scheme, because there are different factors determining the pension in a defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme, and there is uncertainty about both. It is therefore not certain at all that it is possible to ensure equal treatment of employees by means of guidelines, as proposed by the majority. The working party would like to see difficulties to be overcome at the same time as a performance-based scheme. We also believe that the defined benefit pension scheme should be able to continue for employees less than 10 years to retirement. The majority want more flexible closing access and ask the Government to come back with proposals for rules. The majority believe that enterprises can best assess for themselves who loses and wins a transition from a defined benefit scheme to a defined contribution scheme, and take it into account when making decisions. The working party believes that if a pension scheme can be closed for new employees, it can become an A-layer and a B-layer among employees. We therefore believe that it would be easier to liquidate a defined benefit plan if those who are already members could continue in the plan while future employees would have no possibility to reserve themselves against it. The government has proposed that for schemes in which the enterprise decides how to manage the pension assets, the enterprise should have part of the returns and assume responsibility for losses. The return may be shared between employers and employees by agreement. The government will produce a regulation that limits the amount of revenue that can be shared. Liability for losses, the so-called zero guarantee, means that if the market value of the investments decreases in a year, enterprises must cover this reduction. The majority go against the zero guarantee, but they don't say anything about the distribution of the return. We believe that the zero guarantee is absolutely central to the law publishing company and in principle very important. That provision lays down a principle that decision-making powers and responsibilities should be coordinated. Therefore, the entity should not manage the members’ pension capital without also having a financial responsibility for the management. In the Government’s proposal, in return for responsibility for not reducing pension capital, undertakings will receive part of the return. The entity's share of the return increases with increasing returns. That means that entities that choose to take high risks that may lead to losses also have opportunities for a large gain. The combination of liability for loss and the possibility of gain shall jointly motivate the undertakings for well-founded investment funds. On the other hand, a scheme in which undertakings receive part of the return, but do not have the same responsibility for loss, will only motivate undertakings to take high risks, because a high return will largely belong to the entity, while the members of the pension scheme, i.e. the employees, will bear the loss. Such a distribution of losses and gains is totally unreasonable and will lead to very uncertain occupational retirement provision for employees. Here there is only one party, the employer, who will have all the benefits. The maximum deposit limits shall regulate that no tax deduction is granted for an unreasonable pension. The majority believe that the maximum rates in the proposal are too low. The working party does not think that there is any reason to set the maximum rates so that they allow for compensation levels that come up against or above 100 pst. of previous wages and salaries. It would be unreasonable to add to a tax favour that can significantly improve pensions than is customary in the law on occupational retirement provision. We believe that estimates that base the expected compensation rates of about 66 pst are a reasonable starting point. The proposal suggests that early retirement workers cannot continue in the pension scheme, with the exception of workers receiving a contractual pension. These shall be able to continue in the pension scheme. The majority, all except the Advance Party and the Right, support this. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure a good old-age pension for AFP pensioners. A contractual pension is a right negotiated by the parties through collective bargaining arrangements. If those who have negotiated this right to retire before the age of 67 would not be able to continue in the pension scheme, it would be a breach of a previously negotiated agreement between the social partners. The Storting shouldn't do that. So a little bit in the end about gender-neutral premiums. A majority is in favour of this issue being examined further. There is a need for a better system in this area. The Workers' Party is committed to implementing the Act from 1 January next year. If we were to wait until we had determined gender-neutral premiums, we would get in the situation that the law would not be implemented on 1 January 2001. That's why we're choosing to adopt the law now, and then we're going to try to do something about gender-neutral premiums afterwards. Finally, I would like to address the proposal on which the Workers' Party is associated with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e177	Signe Eye has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e182	I registered that Signe Eye from the Workers' Party was very concerned about claiming that only the Workers' Party was engaged in securing employees' rights through pension schemes. But it is with respect to report wrong. What some of us have been concerned about in the design of this law and the law on occupational retirement provision is precisely a flexible regulation that facilitates the possibility for more workers to have pension schemes. But despite all the good intentions, you can see, as also pointed out by Signe Eye, that one million workers are without arrangements. Of course, it is primarily due to the fact that existing schemes have been very expensive especially for small and medium-sized enterprises to implement in their enterprises. One of the circumstances, which has been pointed out by a great many — I am thinking in particular of business organisations representing just the small and medium-sized enterprises, service industries, the commercial sector, etc. – it is necessary to ensure parallel arrangements precisely in order to increase the flexibility of the system. In addition, we have a more mobile labour market now than we have ever had, people change jobs more often and more often, and I wonder how the Workers' Party believes this system should really be that solves the problem of workers changing jobs. You will find yourself in situations where an employee goes from a job with a defined benefit scheme to a job where the company has established a defined contribution scheme. Then you have to close one pension scheme and set up a new one, because the Workers' Party does not want to have parallel schemes. Now you get it right, but I would really like to hear the Workers' Party's explanation of why this is so terribly dangerous.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e189	No, it is not the case that the Workers' Party does not want the contribution pension to come into effect and benefit parts of the million non-pension workers today. We are very concerned that this should be so good that employers also see that this is an opportunity to get more people into a pension scheme, and we should not overlook that this would be very attractive for some companies to ensure more competent employees. So here it's probably distributive on both sides. But I also believe that such a scheme, although the employer can decide and has the full responsibility, will gradually enter into the tariffs. That's why we can count on it to be part of it, and so the employees are also involved and contribute to this system. That's why it's so important that the money that's being put into retirement is also guaranteed for the future, that it's not played with them on a high level, so you lose your rights. When it comes to closing down schemes, it is that a defined benefit scheme can only be closed down, and you get your points as long as you live, until you take out a pension. It's not that it's impossible, but we think that the more parallel schemes we have, the more difficult the pension system will be to keep track of, and it's even more difficult for them to know what you have in retirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e198	In my post I said the following: ‘... a new post-employment pension law is an important contribution to reconstructing the class distinction between those who have employment plans and those nearly one million workers who currently only have benefits from social security.’ There is now a key element in the launch of defined contribution pension schemes. The problem with the government's proposal was that they submitted a deposit pension law that would not be attractive enough for those who do not have an offer today to have one. And then you would have been equidistant. It is clear that one could have designed the deposit pension law according to the wishes expressed by Signe Eye, but then almost no one would have made an offer. Credit supervision wrote, inter alia: in its comment on the deposit pension law that the zero return guarantee proposed by the Government for collective deposit schemes would have led us to have a scheme that was not attractive at all. Because with a zero return guarantee, such a guarantee had also to be taken into account in the composition of the investment portfolio, and the scheme would not have been significantly different from the requirements of an entity-based plan in relation to the composition of the investment portfolio. That systematic deterioration has been made is a claim that, in my opinion, is uncovered. The most systematic deterioration stands for the representative eye by sticking to the Government proposal, which would have made the deposit pension a totally useless product, so that the million without defined contribution plans, without occupational pension schemes, would still be without an offer today. So I ask the representative Eye to document point by point which systematic deterioration she believes is in the committee majority's proposal for law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e212	It is not true that the Workers' Party is not concerned with securing employees a pension scheme that is much better than the one that is today, as there are no things. However, we believe that it is also necessary to require employers who are in favour of such a scheme to ensure that employees are guaranteed that there will be some return and, therefore, some improvement in their pensions when retirement is due. So it is said that the government had made such costly arrangements that small and medium-sized enterprises had no opportunity to participate, that they would thus not have any good arrangements. But we have experience from some other countries that don't show it. They show that a deposit pension is a scheme that companies are engaged in, which they start out on, and therefore it is strange that in Norway there should not be the same opportunities as in other countries that we can compare with. They show that this is attractive not only for employees but also for employers. Both access to parallel pension schemes, the closure of pension schemes and the zero guarantee that should not now be there, we believe that we are in favour of weakening the scheme for employees. Because of that, it won't be as attractive to them. But I agree that this is in any case a better system than no system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e221	Several have not asked for the word for a line. – It has Siv Jensen, who is also on the list of speakers after this rowing. The President would appreciate registering for replication as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e226	I have tried to register to this extent – but it is okay. I did not get an answer from Signe Eye on my first question. What I asked was why the Workers' Party believes it is not right to allow the use of parallel arrangements. The closest answer I got was that it was so terribly difficult to keep track of it. Then it is strange that all those who have been at hearings related to this matter, and who are actually the ones who are going to administer the schemes, have themselves pointed out the need to have parallel arrangements. It is hardly such that this will be a burden for the government and the ministry. To the extent that it becomes a burden, it is for those who are to administer the scheme. They believe, on the contrary, that it is appropriate. So that's the question of employees and their rights. At a time when more and more employers are negotiating additional goods and rights related to wages and other working conditions, pension schemes are a key instrument. So if you, as an employee, move from one job to another and want to bring a benefit-based scheme into a new enterprise because the employee himself believes that it is a better scheme, then the Workers' Party believes that it should be impossible, because this other company does not have this scheme but another. I think that is a rigid and rigid system, and I do not understand why the Workers' Party does not think it is necessary to allow that kind of flexibility, precisely in order for the employees themselves to have a stronger weapon in negotiations with their employers. Then Signe saw Eye in his reply to Børge Burning across borders and showed to other countries it was natural to compare with. But the point is that in those countries there is no zero return guarantee. This is precisely why the arrangements have worked well. I would like to ask Signe Eye to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e240	For the Workers' Party, it is very important that all employees in the same enterprise are treated equally. If we add that there may be parallel arrangements, we think it is difficult to ensure such non-discrimination, if the employees are not members of the same scheme. These include: not desirable to allow for a period of time for those who have worked in the enterprise and for new employees to be offered different pension schemes. It is also not desirable that any of the employees, e.g. the high-wages shall be offered better arrangements than other employees. I also said in my post that we have experience in this area, among other things. by making a significant use of the possibilities they have for providing high-wage pensions higher than the low-wage schemes. There is good reason to believe, if combined or parallel schemes are now provided, that there will be systematic use to give high pay better conditions than other workers, and that the Workers' Party is strongly opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e247	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e250	I just want to start by saying to Signe Eye that she is really discussing the pope's beard. For both defined contribution schemes and defined benefit schemes, collective schemes are those companies must offer to all their employees. In that case, something quite fundamental has been misunderstood, namely whether the company should be able to offer two collective arrangements to its employees. To the extent that you have to move into the country of discussion in which Signe Eye was, it's about arrangements that are outside the tax law, and so you can do that freely in any business if you think it's appropriate. There is reason to point out that one of the purposes of regulating the tax treatment of pension schemes in working conditions is to facilitate the provision of such schemes by the maximum number of employers and thus the maximum number of employees can benefit from the schemes. In order to achieve this, the Progress Party believes that it is necessary to facilitate flexibility and volunteering rather than quadrilateralism and stencil arrangements that will dissipate large groups of employers and workers from fiscally favourable treatment. So we have to try to give a law that allows deposit-based and defined benefit schemes to flourish around each other, for the benefit of as many employees as possible. I am afraid that the deposit-based scheme that is to be adopted is not going to be flexible enough, just as the law on occupational retirement provision did not, and that has not exactly led to any race of new pension schemes around the country either. With regard to the individual moments in the proposition that have aroused some controversy, I need to get into someone. Paragraph 2-1 of the bill does not open up parallel or combined arrangements, despite the fact that a number of consultation bodies have agreed to it. It could be highly relevant for the individual entity and its employees with a combination of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes. Employers’ and employees’ organisations and the financial industry have not expressed similar concerns to those of the Ministry regarding administrative costs related to the practice of two parallel sets of rules in the same field, as a result of two different schemes living side by side. On the contrary, as I also said in my reply, several of the hearing bodies are positive to parallel and combined arrangements. Practical prudential considerations cannot be decisive in such a case. The Progress Party is committed to opening up access to parallel defined contribution schemes in the same enterprise. Nor is it reasonable for the law to distinguish between workers and workers who are actually also owners of the undertaking. There is little reason for a sole proprietorship to be exempted from the law. Many small enterprises can switch between being sole proprietorships and multi-employers depending on the economic cycle. It is not easy for one and the same company to have to jump out and out of the deposit-based pension law. Several hearing bodies have indicated that the collective investment choice model will not be attractive. The credit supervision considers that a provision on financial liability for undertakings in the event of a loss is not appropriate and that there must be a relatively low risk profile associated with the management of capital in such schemes. The Progress Party has noted that, in its opinion, the Credit Authority points out that the risk of having to provide unforeseen and unforeseeable grants would be high and that this would have a significant impact on the establishment of collective investment schemes. The credit supervision points out that the proposal that institutions should have subsidiary responsibilities after the entity to cover value reductions for a single year could also pose a significant risk to the institutions. The Progress Party will therefore argue that saving to retirement in working conditions is long-term saving. Consequently, there is a return over the whole savings period and not a return in each year that is most relevant to the level of the employee’s old age pension. The low risk profile of long-term pension saving will normally result in expected low returns in the long term, thus reducing the age pension of employees. A requirement for an annual zero-percent guarantee constitutes an unfortunate focus on any short-term reduction in the employee’s pension capital. The Party for Progress is therefore in favour of the withdrawal of this annual requirement. There may be several good reasons to leave it on a voluntary basis — and thus a contractual issue between the employer and the individual employee — whether employees should have membership of the pension scheme from the first day. It may be appropriate to include employees in the pension scheme, for example: at the time of the entry into force of permanent employment. This issue also has a cost-effective administrative side for the employer and the pension scheme. It should also be allowed to include employees in the pension scheme before the age of 20, in the same way as it should be left to negotiations between the employer and the employee if the employee is to be included in the pension scheme at a later date than the age of 20. In addition to the above-mentioned cost aspects, there is healthy competition between employers in the provision of the best pension schemes. The Progress Party therefore opposes the Government's proposal for § 4-2 first and second paragraphs, but will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal for § 4-2 first paragraph of the Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party and Left. The Progress Party agrees in principle that the early retirement employee should not be a member of the pension scheme, but there are no relevant arguments for discriminating between AFP pensioners and other early retirement workers with regard to membership of the pension scheme in working conditions. This discrimination can only be eliminated by including AFP pensioners under the general rule of law. Finally, the Progress Party considers that life insurance companies would face a competitively difficult situation in the deposit pension market vis-à-vis non-residents if the Government had obtained a majority for its proposal on life insurance business rules. We're happy to be part of the majority that's turned this around. I also refer you to the rapporteur's posts, to which I can very much agree, and I take up the minority proposal that the Progress Party has put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e284	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e289	The Progress Party believes that it should be voluntary for employees to participate in an occupational pension scheme and that they write in the cancellation: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party point out that it gives older workers a competitive advantage to be excluded from the pension scheme also in the case of a defined contribution pension scheme. These members see no good reason to oblige employees to be members of pension schemes if they do not want to.’ Fortunately, it does the majority, and the good reason is that it is not going to be particularly voluntary to waive the right to an occupational pension. The Progress Party does not see that there may be pressure on workers who have problems getting a job, for example. Some of the older workers we already know have problems entering the labour market? Let's say they take the job then, but they say of course they are not interested in being a member of any occupational pension scheme. These are workers who may have had no occupational pension from before, and who would now have an opportunity to get a little supplement to the population's privacy. We in the Workers' Party note that no longer did the members of the Advancement Party care for the elderly. Does the Progress Party not see that this could lead to pressure on older workers to dissociate themselves from the possibility they now have of entering into a defined contribution pension scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e299	I don't understand the problem at all, because the whole main point is that we want systems that are flexible and based on volunteering. At the same time, I must remind you that these arrangements are collective arrangements, which in practice means that all employees of an enterprise should have the same opportunities in the same enterprise. This means that there will be little during the couple bringing elderly care into a debate on retirement benefits in enterprises. As Signe Eye is probably very aware, the Progress Party is very concerned with care for the elderly. I think it might be something sought to bring that term into here, because this is about, what rights and opportunities each employee should have in their flexible design of pension schemes. It was also one of the conditions I tried to ask the Workers' Party about. If you are so concerned about flexibility and so concerned that employees should have rights and opportunities to move around the pension systems, why will not the Workers' Party then facilitate the flexibility in all other areas that are obviously of importance to the employee, how more and more workers show that this is the best negotiating card they have when they change jobs? They negotiate good pension schemes alongside pay because it has gradually become a competitive aspect also as part of the pay structure. The Labour Party will not be in it. But that is what we want, because we have recognised that we are moving away from the society in which the Workers' Party is still in, looking at employers as examples of horror, and we had to protect workers from all kinds of abuses, now we're in a time when the workers have the power, and then it's also important to design the legislation so that they get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e304	The representative Jensen has now said twice during this change of words that she does not understand the position of the Workers' Party, for example. to what was now the topic here, that is why we are concerned that all employees of an enterprise should have the same scheme. Because that's what this is about. On the part of the Labour Party, we believe that it is a point that people working in the same company should have the same pension scheme, either a benefit-based – as we see it as the best thing for the employees – or a contribution-based, which we are dealing with here now, and which is better for the employees than nothing, what is the option today. But we think it's a point that employees in the same company have the same pension scheme. And can it be so hard to understand? Is it not that people are treated equally, with the same rules and the same benefits in the pension scheme, a contribution to the proper functioning of business? That's the one. The second is the representative Jensen's hoax about saying that we should be able to sign up for a scheme while one is out as an AFP pensioner. The reason why we believe that the AFP pension has a slightly different position than any other pension is that the AFP is a result of wage negotiations. Thus, there is a relationship between the employer and the employee, where it has been prioritised within a sound remuneration framework that some may be allowed to leave earlier when they need it. Does the representative Jensen not see that there is more to intervene in contractual relations between the parties than that one should be entitled to be registered if one is out of any other pension scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e316	To the last one, I haven't hesitated over AFP pensioners. I pointed out in my article the basic need I felt for all early pensioners to be treated in the same way in the legislation. So there was no attempt to harass some groups of early retirementists. It was an attempt to point out regulatory bias that actually favors some groups of early retirements in front of others. And that's what I and the Progress Party are saying. We want everyone to have the same opportunities within the law, but it obviously doesn't want the Workers' Party. So to the first question that the Workers' Party wants all employees to have the same arrangement. Yes, I've realized that you want it in the Workers' Party. I've just wondered why. Because this is a collective arrangement, it basically means that all employees of the same enterprise have the same arrangement. The question is to design the system in such a flexible way as to take account of the changes actually taking place in the labour market. And they're pretty big. We see that moving from work to work, i.e. a mobile labour market, is more prominent now than ever. Let me speak to Mr Andersen. He expressed his view that the defined benefit scheme was better than the defined benefit scheme. Let's say that Andersen's representative had not been a staging representative, but an employee in the business community, and had a performance-based scheme at his place of work. So he wanted to change his job. But in his new job he was not offered to continue with a performance-based scheme, because the law there had instructed the company to make a choice. And they had chosen a deposit-based scheme. This means that, as an employee, you are automatically prevented from taking along the system that you think is the best. That flexibility will therefore not integrate the Workers' Party into the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e325	First of all, I would like to point out that when I'm out in the private business and not here at Stortinget, I'm subordinate to something called forest retirement. I don't think I should ask the representative about it. It is otherwise discontinued. But I want to drill a little bit into what happens if I as an employee have a defined benefit pension, change jobs and start in a company that has a defined contribution pension. First of all, it's saying that the company that would then have had a contribution pension, with a very high probability, would be one of the companies that today has no pension scheme. So we agree that it's a step forward that it's going to be possible to have deposit-based arrangements. But the problem is – as the representative Jensen says – that many today change jobs. And if we're going to follow up the system that the representative Jensen is now arguing about, we can get a system where very many people who work in the same companies have different systems based on which employer they came from. I don't think this is possible to reach an agreement. Here, there's simply a difference in vision. We believe that in collective agreements employees should be treated equally according to the employer they are with today. I guess you can just say that that similarity isn't the Progress Party's particular concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e332	I think we're approaching a clear consensus that we're very disagreeable. That is quite right. I agree that the introduction of a deposit pension is a step forward. We agree on that. We all agree that this is an important supplement precisely to help many of the employees who are currently outside and have no arrangements can have the opportunity to get it. However, precisely in order to create incentives for companies to set up schemes, it is essential that the law is designed in such a way that it actually does, because today it is not a requirement for companies to set up collective schemes for their employees. That's an opportunity. And of course, the fact that it's not mandatory means that the more complicated the legislation we adopt in this room related to the arrangements, the less likely it is that the arrangements will break down to an extent, because they are hard to manage and hard to manage. I believe that, to the extent that the main purpose of making these types of schemes is to ensure that the rules are flexible, practical and applicable to both employees and employers. I think that sometimes the argument about employee rights gets a little stuck in it without any real value, because the whole social structure changes, and the workers increasingly put their demands in a negotiating position with the employer than before. I think it must be a fundamental condition that this freedom of action is just as appropriate for the employees as for the employers, but there we disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e339	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e343	In the Christian People's Party, we are very pleased that today's draft law on penance can be dealt with by Odelstinget. It should be known that the background to introducing occupational pensions is the modernisation of the service pension legislation, while the aim is to provide more people with a pension scheme related to their employment. There are still nearly one million private sector workers in Norway who do not have a service pension scheme in addition to social security, while the vast majority in the public sector have a service pension. Introductory occupational retirement provision is considered an option for enterprises that are unable to create performance-based schemes in accordance with current legislation. So the law on in-law pension comes in addition to the law on in-law pension. The purpose of providing such schemes, with tax advantages, is for several wage earners to be able to have pensions from employment in addition to social security, in other words, to allow a reasonable level of income even in the period after the end of normal wage earners' income. In the Christian People's Party, we were not content with everything that came from the Government in this matter. So, through the committee work, we have been helping to make some changes that I think will make the bill better suited to the purpose. I want to comment on some of these changes in the following comments. In a couple of points, we didn't get along with our visions. I also want to get into these at the end of my article. When it concerns the improvements in relation to the Government's proposal, I will first mention that it is now being put up to so-called parallel arrangements. This means that it is up to the companies themselves to determine the supply to be provided. This opens up greater flexibility based on the ability, possibilities and needs of the different companies. Here, the majority have placed greater emphasis on flexibility and less emphasis on the Ministry’s argument that it is difficult to incorporate into the law. In addition, we are in favour of ensuring that there is a possibility of so-called closure, which has been the subject of earlier debate. In practice, this means that the transitional rules become more flexible than the department entered. The majority are in favour of closing existing schemes for new members so that those currently in a performance scheme may have the right to remain in the scheme until retirement. The so-called company rules in life insurance are relatively strict. The main starting point is to secure the pension recipient’s funds, but existing company rules are designed in such a way that if they remain unchanged, several Norwegian companies will be cut off from producing good and flexible products according to the laws we are now in the process of adopting. The majority therefore request that the Government follow up as soon as possible the Competition Interface Selection recommendation attached to the company rules in life insurance. The majority stress that it is absolutely necessary that the changes be implemented before the entry into force of the Intangible Pensions Act, so that Norwegian companies are fully competitive from day one and do not risk having to wait for the starting line, while foreign companies are given a flight start. So a little bit about what we're not satisfied with. When we read the odelstingsproposition, it seems that the department is trying to instill the effect of gender discriminating premium fixing. Attempts are made briefly to defend that the premium for women should be higher than the premium for men. This is not holding. In short, we cannot accept that gender and age are the only criteria that should form the basis for a differentiated premium. We are very surprised that the Labour Party in the Committee was brought to an end on this point of discrimination against women, especially after registering it at times strongly tempered the internal debate in the Labour Party this summer just on this issue. For our part, we go, along with the other centers and SV, towards the point in the bill that opens up for differentiation of the premium from the sex. We will therefore vote against Section 5-3. [[2]] The Christian People's Party is also a member of the same minority who are opposed to limiting the benefits to payments over a ten-year period. We think it's the same thing that we meant in spring when the law on corporate pension was addressed: the purpose of a pension scheme is to compensate for loss of income, and since loss of income is life-long, the pension should also be life-long. Lifetime increases. This means that more and more people get a long retirement. A lifelong payment will, of course, give the pensioner completely different possibilities than a time-limited payment. Time-limited payments can easily lead to two groups of pensioners, an A-group and a B-group. I'll once again make it clear that here, too, it's the women who come out the wrong way, given the simple fact that the average age is higher for women than for men. I have to admit, I'm somewhat surprised at the Working Party on these two points. But I remind you that the decision has not yet been made. It is still possible to vote in such a way that the gender equality profile of the bill is better than that currently available. Then I will finally address the proposal to which the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e371	Ingrigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e374	The representative of Sørfonn has explained the areas where the centre is both involved in the formation of a majority and is involved in changes to the legislative proposal submitted by the Government. As all the central parties stand together, I am not going to re-examine it, but I am very brief to say that I am also pleased that today we have a pension scheme that leads to improvements in relation to today's situation. Any new pension scheme that allows many of the more than 900000 employees who do not currently have a pension scheme to do so will be an improvement in relation to the current situation. For the Centre Party, it has been important to provide these employees with an offer and an opportunity to obtain retirement benefits in addition to the benefits of the people’s benefit. As has been the case with the development of social security, all with average industrial workers' wages will have a decline in living standards as pensioners if they have not been members of a pension scheme or have saved otherwise. This law makes it easier to secure a better pension. What surprises me, however, is the grip the Labour Party has chosen to do, where it is now more expensive for business to hire women. The consequences of the law that Odelstinget treats today are that, with the support of the Advance Party and the Right, the Labour Party makes female labour more expensive than male. When it opens up that you can take higher premiums from women than men, this is a violation of what the Workers' Party has done in the past. Even weaker is the justification for what you do when the Workers' Party at the same time will limit the payment to 10 years. The centre party wants equal treatment between women and men. The fact that the Workers' Party will only reach out for gender-neutral contributions on a broad basis is a meager consolation when the Stortinget actually has the chance today to establish the principle of equal treatment between men and women when making payments in these pension schemes. I also lack a reason to limit pension payments to 10 years. Thus, when 900000 employees in the private sector are finally able to receive an offer of supplementary pensions in addition to the benefits of social security, it must be limited by a 10-year pay-out period, which also deviates from other pension schemes, which means that pensioners after the age of 77 will receive less benefit than they would otherwise have. It is strange that you choose that grip, despite the fact that you have asked for an investigation in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e387	SV is not satisfied with the setting that exists. At several important points, the setting goes in the opposite direction as requested by the SV. The proposals have a poor distribution profile and also a poor female profile. For SV, there have been four questions that have been particularly important. One has been to counteract more expensive pensions for women, the other that the pension will apply throughout life, not only for ten years. The third is that the financial risk should lie with the employer, not as it is now, that the employee is at high risk. The last is that the employee's influence over pension schemes and administration needs to be strengthened. We are disappointed that the Centre and the Workers' Party have, alternately, obtained a majority with the Right and the Advance Party for many of these proposals, in particular in view of the fact that the Workers' Party and the SV were united in the consideration of the welfare message to lay down clear, distributional, social and insurance solidarity requirements to underpin the tax favouring regime for pension schemes. Previous draft legislation has been characterised by attempts to improve quality and solidarity. This aspect has been seriously weakened in the proposed proposal, including in the decisions to be taken later today. Norwegian Municipal Councils have studied a report from the European Commission, the so-called Colcon report, which reviews pension schemes in all EU countries plus Norway. The Municipal Association concludes that no other country has arrangements comparable to the one that will now be adopted. We've got the most liberal pension scheme in Europe. A key issue of pension schemes is who will bear the financial risk of the plan. SV is of the clear opinion that the majority’s proposal for risk sharing related to pension capital is a major change in principle from today’s system. In the new scheme, the employer no longer has the responsibility to guarantee a safe pension of a certain percentage of employee income, such as: is in today's occupational pension. The full responsibility is placed on the employee, as he himself has to pay any loss in the pension fund. This means that the basic idea of joint and several pension security falls away. Of course, SV cannot support this proposal. Unfortunately, we are alone in the proposal to take this point out, even though a number of workers' party representatives have been out both in the summer and in the autumn and told us that they were against this. The second point that is important for SV is women's rights. It has two proposals that will in particular affect the pension rights of women. The majority provide for a higher contribution for women, because they have a higher average life expectancy than men. That is, it will generally be more expensive to hire women than men. Equality policy is very alarming and SV, together with the centre parties, promotes the need for this discrimination to be eliminated. In a consultation opinion, the LO has agreed to this, as they state that there should be no opening of schemes which in practice discriminate against women. It's possible in the United States to legislate for gender-neutral premiums. This should also be possible in Norway. The second proposal, which will particularly affect women, is the opening of the bill to end the benefit after 10 years. The objective of a pension agreement is to compensate for the loss of income. Since the loss of income is life-long, the pension should also be. Stepping away from life-long retirement benefits is a welfare policy step backwards, and it is to go away from obvious requirements that should be imposed on tax-deducted pension schemes. SV does not find any factual basis that the Workers' Party has found no reason to support these publishers. In particular, in view of the Workers' Party's position in the treatment of the welfare notification, when they were together with the SV to clarify the requirement for lifelong benefits and the requirement for gender-neutral pension contributions, it is incomprehensible. SV is also very dissatisfied with the fact that the majority are in favour of parallel deposit and benefit schemes in the same enterprise. The SV would point out that there was a central point in the bill that all employees should be members of the same pension scheme, taking into account that everyone should be treated equally. The combination of occupational pension and contribution pension will result in greater inequalities in the pension paid out and will be contrary to the intention of pension equalisation from the social security. SV is committed to the involvement of employees in the pension scheme and the management of funds. In the Entrepreneurship Act, SV, together with the Workers' Party, promoted a proposal that a steering group should be set up also in enterprises with less than 15 employees. The added persons have strong financial interests in the pension schemes of the institutions and should therefore be included in advice on the design and management of the scheme. Whatever the size of the entity, the plan is an important part of the conditions for salary and addition. Once again, we are amazed that the Workers' Party is not involved in what they were in at the latest in our company pension law, and that this is not now included in the deposit pension law. The sum of the proposals available here is that the deposit pension scheme will become unsolvable and a worse scheme than it would otherwise have had to be for the almost one million employees we want to have new pension schemes. There may now be new pension agreements, but it is based on a contract that takes more account of the financial industries and enterprises than of the employees, which should be the starting point. President, I don't think we have any suggestions alone in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e415	SV has a proposal together with the representative Bastesen, proposal No. 4 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e418	It's a shame it's just the Bastisen who's supporting it! But then I have to take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e423	Thus Øystein Djupedal has taken up the proposal to which it was referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e428	Firstly, the intervention of the representative, Mr Djupedal, was to some extent a combination of disagreement with regard to the proposal and that for which it had become a majority in the Committee. The last example was the majority of so-called parallelism. We agree that there is no good solution, that the government's proposal was better. And that's why, as our main speaker said, the proposal in some areas has been weakened in relation to the government's proposal. But then the representative Djupedal was also involved in some parts of the proposal that he thought went in the wrong direction. It must be due to a serious misunderstanding when the representative Djupedal formulates it so that it is now open to different payments for female and male employees in pension schemes. These are insurance policies, which are currently such that they actually take into account the average life expectancy calculated. What is new in the Government's proposal, which is underlined in the remarks, is, in fact, as paragraph 1, that a work has been started by the Government to find solutions to what I fully agree with the representative, Mr Djupedal, is a problem, and as paragraph 2, that there are already opportunities to agree that one should have so-called average rates, that is, solidarity solutions, as we know it from the KLP system today. So when the representative Djupedal presents it as being kind of open to discrimination, it's like no, on the contrary, it's taking some steps away from it. On the matter of ten years of contract, we have agreed that the period should not be shorter than ten years, based on the desire to open up the possibility for more people to receive a pension. That is what is meant to be – and I wonder whether the representative Djupedal does not agree: with the weaknesses that the proposal may have had, there are a large number of employees who are now given the opportunity to have pension schemes, who have not had it in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e439	We have been positive about extending the tax-favoritation pension scheme. We believe that the fear of the people in itself over time will not be enough. That's why we've also been committed to both a corporation pension and now a contribution pension. But these are tax-advanced schemes, which make it necessary for the Storting to make absolute demands on how such schemes should be designed. In many important fields, this setting goes in the wrong direction. Part of it is in the proposition, as Mr. Andersen correctly points out, some have gone in an even more wrong direction through the examination in the committee. And it surprises me that the Workers' Party at that point Andersen is now addressing women's rights in the defined contribution pension scheme, is not helping to improve it. So it's obvious, especially in two important areas, that it's going in the wrong direction. In the United States, you have a law that regulates the payment of premiums, which means that you cannot discriminate on the grounds that the Workers' Party has agreed here, that you can have different contributions for women and men. The background is that women on average have higher life expectancy — and this is so far the right thing to do. But it is clear that it is fully possible if you want equality, to remove the type of discriminatory provision. The second is the ten-year rule. Since women statistically live longer than men, it will in turn mean that women are hit harder than men. These are two perfectly clear equality policy perspectives that the Workers' Party has forgotten or lost on the road. And I'm very surprised that Andersen even allows himself to take a line, as if in some way we shouldn't agree. In the context of the welfare notification, we agreed on the principles of solidarity in the design of the tax-favoring pension scheme. But I regret to note that the Workers' Party has gone in the opposite direction. In these two fields, it would have been possible for the Workers' Party to create a majority with the Centre and SV if you wanted to, but they have unfortunately allied themselves with the Right and the Advance Party. And that makes us get a lower deposit pension than we could otherwise have got for many of the country's women who might come under the scheme if the companies sign that kind of scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e450	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e453	Based on the interest in this debate, a belief this was not a big thing, but it is. When Odelstinget is adopted later today, we pass an important milestone in the Norwegian pension system, because it provides better opportunities for all in the private sector to have a pension agreement through the employer. Today, as mentioned in the debate, 850,000 employees have no occupational pension schemes. 2/3 of all employees in the private sector. Through the introduction of a defined contribution pension, they will be able to receive a good pension offer. Deposit-based pensions could provide more predictable and flexible pension arrangements, which would be better adapted to the individual employee's pension needs. The Left and the Committee have listened to the wishes of the labour market in their work, and this will give us a flexible system. It has become less bureaucratic and detailed than the original proposal. The majority of the Committee has accepted some changes to the Government's proposal and asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for amendments. For example, the majority: to open up the possibility of combined and parallel arrangements. This has been wanted by many of the hearing bodies and provides, among other things, the ability to combine defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes. The majority would also like to assess whether a defined benefit pension can be placed on the top of a defined benefit pension. Furthermore, the majority would like to make more flexible arrangements in the area of investment funds. Return over time should be the central, not annual guarantee. It should be possible to choose investment portfolios with a lower risk profile at the end of working life so that the risk of approaching retirement age does not become too high. Flexibility should also be provided to allow deposits to vary according to the economy of the enterprise. Furthermore, there must be fiscal non-discrimination between post-employment pension and defined benefit pension. There should be a greater possibility of transitional arrangements than that of the Ministry. In particular, some older workers could come out of a system of inflexibility. The majority therefore advocate access to the closure of schemes for new employees so that those currently in a defined benefit scheme can remain in the scheme until retirement. The central parties and SV agree that the scheme should not discriminate between women and men. This is an important issue of equality, as the representative, Mr. Djupedal, just mentioned. It is also unfortunate if female labour becomes more expensive than male labour. The Centre and SV are therefore in favour of equal premiums for women and men. The Centre and SV also agree on lifelong payments. The loss of income is life-long and therefore the pension should also be life-long. In addition, there is also an important gender perspective here, as women usually live longer than men.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e480	The purpose of the Government’s draft law on occupational retirement provision is to provide such an offer to several of the nearly 1 million employees in the private sector who are not currently a member of an occupational pension scheme. In particular, it has been an objective to facilitate the acceptance by several small and medium-sized undertakings of the obligations arising from the existence of an occupational pension scheme. The legislative proposal is therefore designed as a flexible framework to allow enterprises to adapt their pension plans to the resources they have and to the needs of the pension scheme at work. I would like to remind you that it is stipulated that the Post-Insurance Pension Act is to be treated in the same way as the Entrepreneurship Act, which means that such schemes are to a significant extent partly financed through tax subsidies. The use of public funds implies certain requirements for the design and distribution of such schemes. In the bill, it is among other things: emphasised that, in areas where the law on pension contributions and the law on occupational retirement provision is not based on different principles, the same legislation should, as far as possible, be the same. This applies, for example: membership criteria, payment period requirements, merger or winding-up rules, etc. I note that in the vote the Financial Committee has largely adhered to this principle. In particular, it is important that individuals or groups of workers should not be able to remain unsolicited, while other parts of the workforce are covered by a deposit or benefit-based scheme. There is significant capital tied up in private pension schemes. Adequate competition in this market is important in order to ensure a reasonable return on funds. Deposit pension schemes, which are to be set up as savings contracts, provide for the possibility of including mutual funds banks and management companies in the pension market. This is in contrast to post-employment pension schemes, which are reserved for insurance corporations and pension funds. It is also intended to be able to design the arrangements to ensure that, in practice, one achieves the most equivalent competition between the institutions. In some areas, it is sufficient that the majority of the Financial Committee in its mandate will allow for certain restrictions to be imposed on the design of the mechanisms that may have the effect of reducing competition. In schemes with life-long payments, it is necessary under current legislation to pay more for women than for men. The reason is that women have higher life expectancy than men. I note that a majority of the financial committee supports the assumption that a somewhat higher contribution can be paid for women than for men in order to compensate for this. I also note that there is a majority behind the proposal to set up a sample to investigate the issue of gender-neutral contributions on a broad basis. The Ministry is preparing for the appointment of such a sample. I have noticed that the spokespersons of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left have criticized that there are not already gender-neutral premiums. What in the world is this? They say that the bill opens up different premiums, as if that's not the case today. But that has always been the basis of the insurance business law. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have administered this legislation in the government. I have never heard that the government of Bondevik notified changes to it. Furthermore, the Bondevik Government promoted the law on occupational retirement provision. It is based on the exact same principle that the premium takes into account life expectancy. The representatives who are now surprised by this principle have actively worked for a law based on gender premiums. Therefore, different premiums for men and women are nothing new. What's new is that the workers' party government has gripped this and started a process of a possible change. I must therefore say that I am somewhat surprised at the argument at this point, which obviously does not relate to the practice that you yourself have lived after until the last week. The principle of equal treatment of employees in tax-favored occupational pension schemes has long been an important principle. I have noticed that in the position of the Financial Committee, there is a broad consensus on the principle of proportionality, which means that employees should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner in relation to the entity's pension scheme. In this respect, it is necessary to ask questions by the majority of the parties that the entity should be able to have a deposit scheme in which some employees are members and a benefit scheme in which the others are members. In this context, the majority asks the Government to consider developing guidelines that allow comparison of defined contribution schemes. Of course, we'll follow this up. However, I would already like to say that we should not have too much hope of what kind of solutions we can come up with. The reason is that defined contribution schemes are based on very different principles, which make it very difficult to create systems for comparison with satisfactory information value for members. In the bill, the Government has opened up investment fund schemes. This may result in both higher and lower returns than those achieved in schemes where the capital is managed as part of the general management of the institution. I believe that the responsibility for the investment power and the risk associated with the return should be linked. In schemes where the entity has the investment power, it is important, in my view, that the entity and its members have similar interests related to the management of the arrangement. I therefore consider it very central that the combination of liability for losses and the potential for gain together should motivate the undertakings for well-founded investment funds. In the proposal, the Ministry proposed that members be ensured against the reduction of the value of pension capital in such schemes, as a result of losses in the capital management caused by the investment funds of the undertaking. Unfortunately, the majority of the Committee has opposed this. The Ministry will now begin a review of the issues in which the majority wants solutions other than those in the bill. We will therefore later have the opportunity to discuss concrete solutions on these points. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that the adoption of a new post-employment pension law will constitute a significant element of the work of modernising supplementary pensions in employment that started with the adoption of a new law on occupational retirement provision. I am pleased that there has been a broad consensus in the main that there is a need for such a clean-up and renewal in order to ensure effective and timely regulation in this area, and I have, of course, noticed the areas where the majority of the Storting has a different view from that of the Government, and will, of course, base it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e509	In Ot.prp. No 71 test the department, and thus the government, to instill the effect of gender discriminatory premium fixing. The government is trying to defend that it is natural and right that the premium for women should be higher than the premium for men. Gender and age are raised as the only elements that can give rise to a differentiated premium. It should be known that there are different risk profiles in different professions which in turn give different ages, different lifestyles give statistically different lives. Personally, I don't think these are elements that are to be taken into account when determining premiums, but I'm somewhat surprised that the department, and therefore the government, only raises the age and gender as the only relevant variable sizes that will affect the estimate. The time-limited performance instead of life-long performance stretches further under the same fact. We think very well of the strong public debate in the Labour Party this summer on this point. It was then said very strongly that it would be cleaned up in the female-friendly grips. We don't see any results, and I'm wondering a little bit about what happened. Has the government rolled down the trend of opposition that was in the government party, and got an impact on its view in collaboration with the Progress Party and the Right? And then the Council of State made a little visit to the centre and pointed out what happened to our government when we introduced the law on corporate pension. Yeah, it's right that it wasn't good. But what the government party did, unlike what is happening today, was that we said this is not good enough. And then we had another point of view. We fixed this up when it came to Stortinget. We dare stand on it. And that is our position today – contrary to what we register here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e516	I believe that it is clearly desirable to consider getting a system where you can build on gender-neutral premiums, and that is what I, the Council of State, have started a work to implement. It didn't start under the previous government. The previous government has taken into account the provisions of the Insurance Business Act which assume that the premiums are to reflect, inter alia, the following: Life expectancy. This means that it is assumed that there is a different life expectancy for men and women. It is also the basis of the law on occupational retirement provision, and as far as I can register, the representative Sørfonn was a member of the financial committee when the law on occupational retirement provision was dealt with. And when dealing with the law on occupational retirement provision, it's based on the principle, as far as I have an overview of, both from the Government and from the Stortinget. That's also what underpins today's corporate pension law, and it became known to be promoted by the government of Bondevik. What's the difference between the two plans is that the law on occupational retirement provision provides for an expected payment and assumes that the payments are adjusted against it. But there it is that individual enterprises subject to the law on occupational retirement provision are currently paying a higher premium for women than for men based on the bill of the government of Bondevik. That is why I think it is somewhat surprising when representatives such as at the time were the strongest lawyers for the proposal of the then government, today believe that there is so much disparity in regard to the fact that the current law is based on the same principle. I am not talking about the length of payment, but about the principle of payment, which forms the basis of the entire insurance business legislation. So it has happened that this government has actually grasped this. We want to appoint a sample to go through the question of gender neutrality in relation to pensions. But this is nothing new. This is the basis of the law that the former government has administered, and that is now the grip of the new government. That's why I'm very surprised at the argument that's being made on the part of the centre parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e523	The next replicator is Børge Burnde.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e526	I think it's a misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e533	Mr Sørfonn has signed up for a new line, so, for the sake of the length of the debate, the President will intensify the implementation of the legislation adopted at the beginning of this meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e536	First, I would like to say that I think it was very positive that the Minister of Finance had promoted the law on pension contributions in working conditions before the summer. The Committee has now also delivered, by giving up the position before we really start working on the budget. That's how it makes progress in this. It's positive. And it was positive that the Minister of Finance got the matter off so quickly, even if there has been a government change. There are just a few things in the debate that amaze me a little bit: You can get the impression that if you've proposed changes to what the government has come up with, it goes beyond someone, there's someone who gets their system weakened. But it's not like that. For those defined contribution schemes there has been so far no existence. So there's more of a discussion about the level at which deposit schemes are to be set up so that it's realistic that the companies that can't afford it today are going to set them up. Of course, there may be a discussion about it, but everyone agrees to get settled at the Rolls Royce level, so no one gets an offer about them, you have a nice law, but no one gets covered by it. So that's what this discussion is about. So a little comment on what has been said about the upshot effect. There are some who suggest that there should be a new principle, but also in what was the TPES scheme, there was an opportunity to provide a 10-year pension. The best thing is to have a lifelong performance. But the question is, Will many then get a performance at all? Or is performance better for ten years? To that end, most people would say that it would be better to have an occupational pension scheme for ten years. My question to the Minister of Finance is linked to this with a zero return guarantee within the collective arrangements. The main scheme within the deposit-based is the collective one, and that scheme I don't think is good as the Government proposes. It does not seem to be the credit supervision either. In its opinion, the credit supervision writes that the risk of having to provide unforeseen and unforeseeable grants would be high with a zero return guarantee and that this would significantly limit the establishment of the collective investment power scheme. And those who have been in the committee have said that this will not be a system that will be used if you have to look at the returns annually. It has to be looked at over a longer period of time. It is clear that the best thing would have been that this had happened annually. But doesn't the Minister of Finance think it's better for people to get a deal than you don't get a deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e547	I am pleased that Mr Brende's representative is pleased that the legislative proposal was presented so that the Committee could deal with it at such an early stage of the session. But let me also say that I assume that we aim to implement the law from 1 January. We will hardly have completed all the investigations associated with the aberrant views expressed by the majority, but I guess that will not prevent the law from implementing as a whole. So we'd better get back to some of the things, probably in the spring. We might be able to clarify something even before New Year's. But most of the elements will be available in different ways, even if the law is applied from 1 January. The representative indicates that the zero guarantee could have a limiting effect. I do not have any problems understanding that without a zero guarantee, the scheme would seem more attractive to the employers. It's quite obvious. But here the issue becomes the attractiveness of the employer in relation to the security that employees should have in respect of pension capital. At that time, the Government’s assessment has been that the emphasis should be on employee security for pension capital, and also that there must be a link between the responsibilities it assumes for a possible loss in relation to the possibilities of return. This balance sheet believes we would be best protected by having a zero guarantee. Otherwise, in the case of the zero guarantee, there are many of the same issues as in the case of combined solutions. The question then arises as to what views are expressed in the hearing. Is it the employer's side and the insurance companies that express their views, or is it the employees who want security for their money? I find it difficult to believe that the main weight of the employees has stated that they do not want a zero guarantee, and that they want combined solutions. On the contrary, I believe that it is from the employer’s side that the point of view is expressed, and I would like to refer to it as, among other things, The representative Øye said that we in the Workers' Party and the Government believe that it is important to ensure equal treatment and maximum security for the pension capital of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e556	I understand very well that the Minister of Finance would like to talk about something other than what I asked for in my previous reply. Let me first say that the center party in our argument for the same thing that they argue for today. There has not been any change in our position. But what I didn't get answers to was the question of what happened, and I then referred to the internal debate in which public opinion was made part of this summer, which made it clear that in the law of penance there are clear anti-female elements that one will clear out. We heard nothing more about this, it has disappeared altogether, and we see that it is forming a plurality of what was the original view of the Government, in collaboration with the Right Party and the Advance Party. It's okay, one is free to do what one wants, but we're a little surprised, because I don't quite understand that there's going to be a need for new distributions to clarify this, it can be made as simple as a vote against the proposal on the second paragraph of Section 5-3, which opens up this gender differentiation in the premium. I don't understand that there will be a need for further information about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e563	As regards the views of the Workers' Party, it is natural to raise that question to the Workers' Group. I note that the Storing Group is behind the Government's proposal. My question is equally full: have the central parties, through the Bondevik government, promoted the law on occupational retirement provision? Yes, they have. Is occupational retirement provision based on gender-based contributions? Yes, it does. Has the government administered the insurance business law? Yes, it does. Is the insurance business law based on gender-based premiums? Yes, it does. Has the Bondevik government reduced any selection or made any proposal to change the system of gender premiums? No, it never has. Then my point is that what this proposition is based on is exactly the same principle that Norwegian insurance law is based on. The difference is that this government has announced that we want a review of gender premiums, and my goal is to assess whether it is possible to make changes in relation to it. And then the representative Sørfonn says that you open up a principle here, and you can only vote against it and that paragraph. No, it's not like that. The overall Norwegian insurance law is based on the basic principle that premiums should reflect, inter alia: Life expectancy. So what the representative Sørfonn is really after is a change of the basic principle. And once again, the problem is: by voting against this paragraph of this law, you wouldn't change the law that the representative Sørfonn has voted for, namely the law on occupational retirement, which is based on gender premiums today, where you pay more for women than for men. And then there's going to be a little bit of skin manoeuvre what the center parts here are doing, given that the government has actually started a job of making this change. But there's something more to do than vote against this one paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e575	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e580	It was the Minister of Finance's answer to my reply that made me ask for the floor, it is about understanding the law on occupational retirement provision and pension contributions. The Minister of Finance believes that if necessary, it must be the employer to cover losses related to the investment funds made under the Deposit-Based Schemes Act, if the investments yield less than zero returns. But the whole point is that in the law on occupational retirement provision, which unfortunately only one of the three in the private sector is covered, the employer must provide a very comprehensive guarantee. It must then be guaranteed that the employee, for example: must have 70 pst. of previous pay when you become a retired person. Two out of three private enterprises in Norway appear to be at excessive risk and therefore do not have such schemes. Now we're going to create a system where the employer knows that the risk is only related to the deposit, you know that you have an annual deposit, and that's going to give the employee a right. The problem with the zero return guarantee is, as the Credit Authority also writes, that ‘a provision on financial liability for the entity in the event of a loss is not appropriate and that there must be a relatively low risk profile related to the capital management of such schemes’ — it is in order to establish them. The point is that the zero return guarantee violates the entire deposit pension principle; then the risk is no longer linked only to the deposit; then one has to go, for example. the low level of investment made must be set by the employer. And then there's the law on corporate pension that's the solution. I understand that it is a better system for employees to have such a solution – absolutely – but it must be better for the two-thirds of the private sector to have an occupational pension scheme than not to have an occupational pension scheme. That is why I am a little surprised when the Council of State makes it a question of the employer and the employee. Then you can also return it to the Workers' Party, such as. In the law on occupational retirement provision and in the law on pension contributions, it has been accepted that there may be a consequential effect, i.e. that you can have an occupational pension in, for example: 10 years. The best thing would have been for the center, a lifelong benefit, because it's a better right for the employee, but the Workers' Party says that it's the right way, but it's not realistic for private business to come up with such a scheme – at least not for everyone, then you're afraid that there's fewer who get offered, and then the best is the enemy of the good. It's actually the same angle of incidence right over here. You have a different approach, that's okay, but the point is that you make different assessments of the different schemes. I stand by the fact that this is not a question of the employer's or employee's point of view, there are questions about getting into a system that is so attractive that more people get an offer. The credit supervision has also entered very badly here and said that these are the solutions chosen in the other countries that have deposit pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e585	Now this was quite an article and not a line, but I still think it might be appropriate to comment on it. I respect what the representative Burnde says about the importance of having a system that allows it to be used – that’s a reason in itself for proposing the law on deposit pensions. But at the same time, I have to remember that there is no requirement to choose an investment fund scheme where the entity makes an investment decision. So it's one of the alternatives that exists. There is a risk associated with it, but there is also a potential gain associated with it. And of course, it can result in both higher and lower returns than what is achieved in schemes where capital is managed as part of institutional governments. However, my point is that responsibility for the investment power and the risk associated with the return should be linked. I would like to express a concern that the tape has been resolved in the position that the representative, Mr Brende, is arguing for. In schemes where companies have the investment power, it is important, in my view, that the company and its members have similar interests related to the management of the scheme – as the representative Eye described very well in his statement – and not that one has a situation where the employer has an advantage in relation to possible returns, linked to taking a higher risk, while the employee bears the real risk in case of loss. Therefore, I believe that it is a better arrangement the Government has established, with a zero return guarantee. It would have given greater security to the workers. I'm recording that the committee has a different view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e596	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[Footage, see page 45]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e610	The Financial Committee is in line with much of the Government’s proposal for a new stock exchange law – and I will therefore leave those things in order. However, it is important to stress that the Committee, like the Government, considers it important to introduce a new regulatory framework for the stock exchange that is more adapted to today’s needs – a regulatory framework that not least contributes to the promotion of an efficient and well-functioning stock and bond market. Following today's stock exchange law, there is no concession obligation related to stock exchange activities. However, this obligation occurs if an undertaking engaged in stock exchange operations uses the term exchange by citing its activities. The Committee agrees that stock exchange activities are made compulsory. On the other hand, for authorised market places, the Legislative Committee has proposed a regulation of the concession obligation, so that it is voluntary for an undertaking active to apply for a concession. The Ministry, on its own, has proposed that such activities be subject to a concession obligation. In Norway today there are three markets for shares. There are listed shares, shares registered on the list of unlisted shares of the Norwegian Fundbrokerbund, and there are other unlisted shares. The latter two are generally referred to under the common name ‘grey market’. Today, listed shares have the most extensive regulation through securities trading laws and stock exchange laws. The turnover is largely through authorised brokerage companies. The trading of unlisted shares is largely through the use of authorised brokerage companies as intermediaries. Mediator undertakings are subject to regulation in the Securities Trading Act. Therefore, for brokerage companies, the same legislation applies whether they market unlisted or listed shares. All turnover of non-listed shares registered with the Norwegian Fundbrokers’ Association shall be recorded in their information system, with continuous updates every fifteen minutes. This means that those who buy and sell shares in this market can verify that they are trading at market conditions. Daily it is traded for approx. 50 million. kr in unlisted shares on this list. This means that this market is important for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular because it stimulates access to risk capital for enterprises. A majority of the Committee considers that the proposals of the Department could create significant problems for the companies on this list. Many of these businesses are new, they are small, and they are usually located in the districts. Many of them are not associated with any business organisation either. For these companies, this market is important, in particular in preparation for any future listing. This list draws more attention to companies and provides more liquidity in turnover. The majority therefore believe that the Government's proposals are being too complicated and unclear. The majority are concerned that the proposal could result in increased administrative burdens, with document and reporting obligations that may make it more difficult to apply for admission, which may, in turn, weaken companies’ access to risk capital. But the majority will end there too. The Progress Party, the Right and the Steinar Bastisen take the consequences of this and go against the Government's proposals. We propose that the legislative committee's proposal be followed to further develop the positive trend seen in this market and not push more businesses into an even blacker grey market where the flow of information is considerably smaller. The central parties, on the other hand, propose some strange alternative model to the Government's original proposal, while the Workers' Party is on the Government's proposal. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, subscribe to the proposal to convert Oslo Børs into a public limited-liability company and considers this to be important in order to further streamline the stock exchange as a market place. The government has proposed setting an owner limit of 10 pst. for the individual shareholder in the new exchange. The Committee agrees that no individual should be given an over-dominant ownership position and that this should be balanced against the need to acquire active and long-term owners. However, the Party of Progress and the Right has proposed that the limit be set at 20 pst. This is because in countries it is natural to compare with, not common with a limit below 20 pst. While the purpose of the limitation of ownership is, of course, to ensure the spread of ownership and to prevent concentration of power, it is also important that the stock exchange appears to be of high integrity. Ownership rules may also lead to the administration of an undertaking. The minority therefore agrees with the majority of the legislative committee, which considers it reasonable to assume that the major shareholders in an exchange would be strategic investors characterised by the fact that they actually meet at the general meeting to exercise voting rights, so that the possibility of having a dominant influence with a smaller shareholding would not be as current as in other businesses. In recent times, we have had revelations about bad performances in the grey market and cameradericulture in parts of Norwegian business. This has taken the financial committee seriously and has commented on insider dealing and price manipulation in connection with the Stock Exchange Act. The Government has proposed a number of amendments to the Securities Trading Act which tighten the regulatory framework for financial instruments admitted to trading and trading on an authorised market place. However, the Committee is concerned that the law on insider dealing should be strict and should be clearly and objectively designed regardless of whether the share is listed or unlisted. This is not the case today. The current legislation is obviously not sufficient either when it appears that illegal primary insider dealing is difficult to prove. Ecocrims are becoming increasingly difficult to identify in this type of case. This is why the Committee considers it necessary to have legislation that appears preventative but at the same time makes it easier to respond to offences. The Committee believes that this will help to increase confidence in stock trading and reduce the potential for price manipulation in business. The Committee has therefore asked the Government, in its further work on the internal rules, to submit proposals which contribute to the imposition of a uniform and, not least, strict legislation on insider dealing on all shares which are the subject of so-called general turnover. The Committee also points out that not only employees who are involved in the administration on a daily basis but also employees who are given a periodical insight into the administration must be subject to the rules. We also point out that the Government should consider whether other non-employees, who nevertheless receive periodic insight, should also be subject to such rules. In addition, the majority of the Committee calls on the Ministry to assess the appropriateness of the establishment of stock supervision. Here the Committee does not have strong opinions as to whether it will be appropriate or not, but we will at least ask for an assessment of such stock supervision to see whether it can also help to improve the credibility and confidence of such an important market, which, after all, channel significant capital into our business every single day. In the extension of the transformation into a public limited-liability company, the Government has proposed that the proceeds from such a transformation should fall to the treasury. Here, too, the Committee is divided into its views. The Party of Progress and the Right is of the opinion that the proceeds are to be set aside for a separate foundation, the purpose of which is to contribute to economic and industrial research, to education, to marketing and to information activities related to the purpose. Securities trading is an area in which Norway is far away; we do not have our own professorates; not much is happening on the research side; and in addition, the flow of information to the population is very low despite the increasing number of individuals placing savings in shares. Therefore, it is important to facilitate such information work. In that case, it would be appropriate, in our opinion, to use the proceeds when converting to a limited liability company for such a purpose, in line with what has been proposed both by the statutory committee and by other bodies that have been at the hearing in the case. Nevertheless, the Government and the Workers' Party in Stortinget have proposed that the entire proceeds should fall to the Treasury. I'm wondering if I've registered it. We asked the Government to assess how this was in relation to the Constitution. And when you get a letter back from the department where it's pointed out that the law department, which has looked at this relationship, assumes – I repeat – that it's not unwarranted to confiscate these funds to the state treasury, it's a relatively thin basis to collect money, especially because these funds haven't at any time been the state's. It's the actors at Oslo Børs who have been behind this, not the state. Nevertheless, the State considers itself entitled to this relatively modest amount of money without actually having the right to the funds. But the third minority solution from the committee seems almost more strange because it's completely unprincipled, and it's the center party's landing. For the center, we haven't been able to take a clear settlement in relation to the Constitution at this point, but chose to say that we put a little bit into the treasury, and then we put a little bit into a fund, but we're not quite sure what this fund is going to do yet, so we have to ask the government to figure that out. Unfortunately, it is necessary for the Progress Party to give subsidiary support to this proposal despite the fact that it is completely unprincipled, because it actually brings us closer to the main objective, namely to establish a body that is actively working to disseminate information and knowledge on securities trading. But I would like to stress that it is important for the Government to look closely at how this should be designed, so that a system that actually works in line with the intentions of the Committee, although I understand that it may be difficult because it is relatively little clear what the proposals of the Centre parties actually carry out. In contrast to the Government, the majority of the Committee has already found it necessary to introduce rules of set-off or so-called netting for power derivatives, in particular because the period of treatment initially set by the Ministry is too long. The entire committee, if I don't remember faults, believes it might weaken the Norwegian market place for financial electricity. The liberalisation of the electricity market in Europe leads to an increase in the number of competitors of Norwegian operators. Electricity exchanges are growing in an increasing number of countries, and it is important that we do not remain in possession of a strange regulatory framework which, in itself, hinders the growth and development of an already well established market place in Norway. In conclusion, I refer to the position of the Committee on Budgets and I address the minority proposals to which the Committee on Budgets is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e656	Siv Jensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Before moving on to the list of speakers, the President will propose that there should be no change of line in this matter. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e661	In the introduction I would like to point out that this setting shows that the Government gets multiple numbers at all important points in the new stock exchange law. The main objective of this law is to facilitate effective, orderly and trusting markets for axes and other financial instruments. We have recently seen examples of how financial acrobats have protected themselves from small investors. The new concession requirement for all financial instrument marketplaces and the Government's warning of tightening the internal rules will hopefully create some problems for the financial acrobats and provide them with the more needy ones. Stock exchanges and other market places for financial instruments face major international challenges, including: because of economic integration and the technological developments we see. The laws that we are now to adopt are designed to ensure that Norwegian marketplaces are able to participate effectively in the structural changes that are now taking place. The concession requirement for all financial instrument market places is one of the main points of the Government's legislative proposal. I am pleased that the Workers' Party is securing multiples in layers with the center part and SV at this important point. The concession requirement must be seen in conjunction with the technological and international challenges we face in this area, and not least the importance of organising market conditions. The authorised market places will be subject to public supervision by the credit supervision. The credit supervision is currently overseeing the brokers, regardless of whether the brokers are listed or unlisted papers. The fact that market places are also subject to supervision may help to improve the overall supervision of this market. The concession requirement will also give users greater certainty that trade and listing are subject to certain minimum requirements. This could improve the access to capital of the companies listed in the authorised markets. In Denmark, they have the same system. If there could not be a concession obligation for the authorised market place, such as the Progress Party and the Right, it would be enough to have an investment firm concession to operate a market place for financial instruments. Our intention is to prevent. It is easy to imagine the conflicts of interest that may arise if the same company is to broker axes between buyers and sellers – and will also receive large commissions – while at the same time operating the marketplace itself with the requirements of non-discrimination, equal information, etc. as it is natural to place itself at a market place that wants to gain confidence. The requirement to impose a concession obligation on all financial instrument market places has also made some concerns that this could have a detrimental and complicating effect both on the market place itself and on the companies that are admitted to trading. In my opinion, it is important to point out that the Government's legislative proposal imposes more limited requirements on the authorised market places and the companies that are traded there, compared to the requirements imposed on the stock exchanges and the companies that are traded there. For example, for an authorised market place, no control committee or owner restriction rules are required. The authorised market places will be free to set recording conditions as long as these are in line with the principle of neutrality, non-discrimination, etc. In addition, the laws provide that the disclosure and reporting obligations of the companies to authorised marketplaces are less extensive than those of the stock exchange. As a whole, there should therefore be no reason to be concerned that the requirement of a concession obligation for all financial instrument market places would have a detrimental and complicating effect, either on the market places themselves or on the companies that are admitted to trading. I think there's reason to point to the starting point of the concession requirement, that we want efficient and reliable markets for such financial instruments. There is also a consensus in the Committee on the need for owner restraints. Also at this important point, the plural stands behind the government's proposal. That means no one can own more than 10 pst. of the axes in a stock exchange. The rainy and multiple times the reason for setting a limit of 10 pst. is simple. We don't want the dominant influence of single-parents who are also actors on the stock exchange. This could weaken the trust of the users. 10 pst. is also the general rule for the limitation of ownership of financial institutions. The Progress Party and the Right propose a 20 pst owner restriction, and I think this could be unfortunate. A 20 pst limit could weaken market confidence in the stock exchange. Strong and one-sided ownership concentration increases the risk of individual groups or actors being particularly favoured. I assume no one wants this. Besides, a limit of 10 pst. In my view, giving adequate opportunities to create such a monthly ownership that we have to expect these shareholders to follow up with the governing bodies. There should be no reason to weaken the ownership restriction in order to keep these considerations to themselves. However, the 10 pst. rule could be a monthly obstacle, for example. Oslo Børs would enter into a strategic cooperation with another exchange. Therefore, the government’s proposal opens for a Norwegian or foreign exchange to have up to 25 pst. ownership as part of a long-term strategic cooperation agreement. This will give the stock exchanges greater flexibility and room for action in relation to the increasing internationalisation that we see taking place in this area. The bill implies that the Oslo Stock Exchange Foundation is converted into a public limited-liability company. A broad majority, the Labour Party and most of the Centre, not the Center Party, support the Government's proposal. The sale of axles in the new company believes a will give a monthly amount. While in the Labour Party we can imagine using these revenues for important welfare efforts in the next year's government budget, the Progress Party and the Right want to spend money on a financial industry that is not just lacking in salt in food, if we're going to judge by what we see in the media image today. If the Progress Party and the Right vote subsidiaryly for the Centre Party's proposal at this point, that means that this is something that one must come back to in revised spring. Even if the Centre Party has proposed the creation of a fund for various purposes for the financial industry, including: research, does not result from the impact of next year's government budget, I believe that such promises as these are set up must go through the usual channels, the usual assessments, such as: in the Research Council. In addition, I have strong doubts as to whether this part of Norwegian business is to be prioritised in research. However, I am pleased to note that the revenue from the sale of the axe in Oslo Børs will be transferred to the treasury and used to increase the investment in welfare in the 2001 budget. So we'd better come back to the second act on this question in the spring. In connection with the processing of this proposition, a discussion has appeared about the intrusion of the internal rules. This is a discussion that we in the Working Party would like to welcome. I would just like to make a brief reference here to the fact that the Minister of Finance has written to the Committee and said that new proposals for tightening up the internal rules will be put forward so that they may be dealt with by the Stortinge in the spring session. But what's important in this context is that this is about a goal, and, as it also signifies in the new stock exchange law, it's about reinforcements that we fully support. And we believe that this will increase confidence in the financial market and provide more efficient and well-organised markets for financial instruments. And ethics and morality, what is right and what is wrong, can unfortunately not be regulated, because it turns out to be a personal question. In this context, I would like to refer to the rapporteur's statement and also to the Committee's emphasis on this issue in the Committee's position. The Government proposes that the new exchange law should apply its rules at market places for derivatives, but that the regulation of trade in derivatives in its entirety should be dealt with in its own proposal at a later date. The other parties – except the Workers' Party and SV – want to deal with the issue of product derivative netting already. The product-derivative selection, which was proposed in September 1999, proposes rules for such netting. This scheme could have a particular amount to say for Norwegian power exchanges about their competitive situation in relation to foreign power exchanges that have such a system today. We are probably not in disagreement with the other parties in fact, but in the Labour Party we support the Government's view that all the questions relating to the regulation of trade in derivatives are dealt with in a separate proposition that we are now familiar with can be presented as early as spring. This means that the Workers' Party is voting against the proposal of Section 10-1 of the Securities Trading Act, as stated in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e718	It is a central and important law for business Odelstinget to decide today. Laws must be the basis for and help us to have an efficient, orderly and reliable market for the translation of financial instruments. This has a great deal to say in a socio-economic context, in terms of capital build-up and the channelling of capital where it gives up more. The stock exchange's important tasks include: to facilitate the market place itself, the trading venue and the role of an inspector of compliance with certain requirements for the exchange to be traded and listed, and for those to act on the exchange. It is also important to stress that the legislative proposal has a design that will enable the stock exchange and any other market places to be involved in the structural changes it envisages and that the laws are designed to meet technological developments in this area. In the management of the Committee, it is widely associated with most of the paragraphs and with the areas included in the legislative proposal. The recommendation from the Committee is therefore so clarifying that I find no reason to go into areas other than those of the Christian People's Party's side that we have been particularly concerned about. The first thing I want to talk about is about the ‘exchange’ and ‘authorised market place’. The Christian People's Party believes that these coverts should only be used for concessional companies. Nor can we see that it would be so burdensome for an authorised market place to apply for a concession that it would prevent the development of alternative marketplaces. At the same time, it is important for me to add that there should and should be a difference between the requirements imposed on the stock exchange where there are relatively large companies, compared to the requirements to be imposed on authorised markets where a large number of small and newly started companies have. Therefore, it is reasonable that the reporting and recording requirements are somewhat different and less extensive than those imposed on the stock exchange. There is a comprehensive committee that has been engaged in the conduct of stock exchange and market markets and the transfer of securities in a manner that enhances confidence. In this context, one in the Committee has also raised the question of whether it would be reasonable to set up a stock monitor. Following the answer from the Minister of Finance to this question in a letter dated 3 October, the Committee has agreed that it would like to have this assessed by the Department and that it will then be presented to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. When it comes to the form of organization, the Christian People's Party believes that public limited-liability companies are the best form for Oslo Stock Exchange. Deregulation, internationalisation and the emergence of new technologies mean that national stock exchanges are ahead of a whole new competitive situation that will also lead to changes in the form of different ways of cooperation. And then the form of public limited-liability companies will be the most appropriate way to organise the stock exchange. In line with the desire to spread ownership, that a single person should not be given a dominant position in the stock exchange, we end up with the Government's proposal to set a limit of 10 pst. for the individual shareholder, but that at the same time we open up the possibility of granting a derogation for up to 25 pst. in the context of strategic cooperation agreements. The last point I want to raise concerns the values of Oslo Stock Exchange as they are today, and how they should be disposed of when the stock exchange becomes a corporation. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, we believe that it would be right to use part of the income a person receives at the sale of the stock exchange to a fund that promotes knowledge of capital, saving, raising awareness of and insight into business ethics and researching these areas. It is natural that some of the values created by Oslo Stock Exchange's operations over the years of its existence should be able to defend its use in such a context. That is why we want the Government, in connection with the revised budget for 2001, when one sees the size of the capital at the sale, to return to the Stortinget with the suggestion that a fund should be created for this purpose. The size of this fund must be such that the return on it yields revenues that one can obtain funds for research at a high level, information and knowledge of capital, raise awareness and understanding of business ethics, national ownership, innovation and so on. This means I am an important signal about what we think should be put forward as a premise for such a fund, and there is also a response to the representative Siv Jensen asked for in his post. I would otherwise like to express my gratitude to the Progress Party for the signal of subsidiary support for our proposal. I'm taking this up from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e744	The representative Lars Gunnar Lie has taken up the suggestion he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e747	When you read through the proposition promoted by the Government, it is amazing to think that the former parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Einar Førde, said some years ago that there was no point in wearing oats to a dead horse – and then that was the stock exchange he was thinking of – because in the proposition that the Minister of Finance and others have put his name under, it says that today the stock exchange plays an important role in contributing. «to the building-up of capital in society and to the channelling of capital to the point where it throws itself the most. An efficient securities market contributes to increased efficiency in the allocation of societal resources». The horse was not as dead as one thought! It is obvious that the stock exchange is the important instrument we have in Norway for companies that need more capital to develop and to implement projects to be provided with equity. It's a straightforward recognition to have at the bottom. In addition to the stock exchange, we also have a so-called market for unlisted companies, the grey market. It is traded daily for 50 million. kr in unlisted shares listed on the fund brokerage association’s list. In fact, the Committee writes in its opinion that it agrees on the following: «This market is important for small and medium-sized enterprises, inter alia, because it stimulates access to risk capital for enterprises.» The government is proposing some changes in this area, and it is that the authorised marketplaces that we have today are to be subject to concession, as it is also to be made to the stock exchange. Here, the majority of the Committee is critical of the fact that there must be the same concession requirements for stock exchange and authorised markets, and also writes in the preamble that it: ‘which could create significant problems for the companies on the list of unlisted shares. Many of these enterprises are new and smaller enterprises located in the districts and many are not associated with any business organisation.’ It is in this case that the Right Party and the Advance Party propose that the authorised market places should not be subject to concession treatment, while the Centre is part of the concession requirement, but makes it quite clear that the same information requirements should not be imposed on the small companies made for the large listed companies. I think it could be okay if the Minister of Finance elaborated in his speech if he included that majority comment in the further work. This is a balance. But we don't have to pretend that the concession requirement helps to ensure that there are annual reports and requirements for these companies in line with the large listed companies, such as Hydro and Others. It's essential for us. It was mentioned by the Workers' Party that in Denmark the authorised market places were also subject to concession treatment. That's right, but then you don't have a gray market that works in Denmark either. In Sweden, there is a grey market that works, and there is no concessional treatment. We're used to hearing that if you don't get what you get in Sweden, you move over the keel. But then you have to be aware in the further treatment that it must not be designed so that it happens. There I think there is a considerable responsibility. But at the same time, we know that the grey market is not exactly what it should be. In the balance between confiscating the authorised market places and tightening up the internal rules, I would have chosen the last one – tested with it – because the internal rules applicable to other trading activities do not apply to the grey market, and they should. The letter from the Minister of Finance was therefore reassuring in this way. We first want to try it and meet a proposition from the Government that the inside rules also apply to the grey market. There is a need, because it must also be trusted that it is not only those who have inside information that can make money in the grey market, because it will also weaken the opportunities of small and medium-sized enterprises. Changes in the international competitive situation make the traditional exchanges subject to strong competitive pressure and need to increase the efficiency of their activities, on the one hand by concluding alliances to survive in the new competitive situation on the other. In this sense, it makes sense to give the stock exchange an opportunity to convert to AS. That's absolutely right, and I also think it might be right to let long-term owners own more than 10 pst. I think it can actually create greater stability in ownership conditions, cf. part of our financial institutions, than with a 10 pst. rule. So we choose to go in for a 20 pst. option. So the question of sales proceeds. First, it has a legal side. The Ministry and the Government propose that the entire sales proceeds should be entered directly into the treasury. This has been taken into account by the Department of Law, and the Department of Law has written to the Department that «you assume» that this will not be contrary to the Basic Law § 105. I don't think it's a very strong legal basis to take these funds, and the committee has also been sent a comment from pros. Dr.jur. Geir Woxholth, who has concluded that taking these funds from the stock exchange – it is money from those who have actually used the stock exchange – is contrary to the Basic Law § 105 and pure confiscation. I wonder if the Council of State could comment on the observation that has come from Woxholth, and say something about how sure he feels that he has a safe legal basis to take these funds. But rejecting these funds in full has not been given a majority in the committee, it is only the representative of Bastisen, the Progress Party and the Right who is behind it. But luckily, the centre has been halfway in favour of what was proposed by the Committee on Stock Exchange Law, linked to the promotion of a functioning Norwegian market for financial instruments. It may be a useful contribution to economic and industrial research, training, marketing and information activities related to the purpose of using part of these funds for a fund, a foundation. So, like the representative Jensen, who is obviously hoping that the Right too will subsidize the Centre's proposal, I would like to welcome the representative Lie and inform him that proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, we will join subsidiaryly if our proposal falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e778	I refer you to the article by Lars Gunnar Lie, who has explained the areas where the center is located. I also refer to the setting, where the central party's position on the various questions is shown. I should therefore be careful to comment on a couple of issues. The discussion on insider dealing, lack of trust and weak control of the stock exchange's operations periodically emerges. Investors – including large investors – complain about lack of control, including with insider dealing. And the stock exchange, on its side, complains to the Banking Authority, that too few of the cases submitted end in reactions. Trust in the stock exchange is crucial for the activities to be carried out by the stock exchange. Neither the stock exchange, business, investors or society is served by a capital market that is characterized by attitudes such as that we are so few in this country, which has been a repeat in some circles lately. If enforcement of the legislation is not perceived as effective by the market, and if the risk of being detected if irregularities occur is not sufficiently high, it may easily move towards a trend in which confidence in the stock exchange is becoming more and more impaired. None of us have served this purpose, and it is therefore necessary to have strict control and supervision of the securities market business and of Oslo Stock Exchange. I am therefore pleased that the internal rules are being reviewed, and that there is also support for our wish to have an assessment of the establishment of a share supervision. I think, unfortunately, that's a very necessary way to go. And when I'm sorry, it's because in a number of areas we have different oversight, but in this area we've seen a recent development that, in my opinion, justifies the creation of such stock supervision to the greatest extent possible. The central party and SV agree on a proposal to maintain the stock exchange as a self-owned foundation. In my opinion, it is important to have a national stock exchange. A transformation into a public limited-liability company would, in my view, easily lead to the stock exchange being no longer a national stock exchange in some years, but a part of it, for example. a Nordic stock exchange. It's a development we want to counteract. There is not likely to be any gain on transforming into a limited liability company that we have found is burdensome enough argument to make such an approach. The centre party therefore wants to continue the stock exchange as a self-owned foundation, and on that basis I would like to address the proposal where we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e793	The representative Odd Roger Enoxen has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e796	Let me briefly comment on a couple of aspects in the setting where SV has a different view – also on a few important points. The background to today's draft law is therefore the position of the Committee on Stock Exchange Law, and as regards the organisation of Oslo Børs, the Committee on Stock Exchange Law did not make any clear recommendations. On the contrary, the sample said that both a self-owned foundation that the stock exchange is today and a public limited-liability company could have its advantages. I am therefore surprised that the government is submitting a proposal on a public limited-liability company without further reflections. It will in fact mean an AS with negotiable shares, and for an exchange it will lead to many significant problems, to which I will come back a little bit. The SV's starting point is that we want the stock exchange to continue as a self-owned foundation, primarily because the stock exchange is an important market place for the trading of securities and should not conflict with its owners – a situation in which one can quickly enter. It is important to have a national stock exchange. It is important that Oslo Børs does not become a branch, as Norway is unfortunately becoming a pure branch country, where foreign companies own important Norwegian business. It can happen in this case as well. This means that a small country such as Norway will not be able to ensure that securities are traded of importance on its own national stock exchange. I believe that a self-owned foundation in this way would have been far more favourable for the trading of securities in Norway. I also find it difficult to imagine – or at least it should have been more problematic – that it is the same actors who are at Oslo Børs, who are going to own Oslo Børs. We know this system from many other countries, so it is possible to imagine that it will work, but at the same time Norway is a very small nation with very low turnover on the stock exchange and very few significant companies. This becomes particularly problematic when you see that the Right Party and the Advance Party want a 20 pst limitation. After all, 10 pst is better. as the majority, including SV, is now in favour, but at the same time it is problematic that Storebrand, Hydro, Statoil – perhaps not Statoil, it has not yet become a limited company – or who I know, should own the same stock exchange that they are themselves an operator of. In view of all the conflicts – ethical conflicts of viability – we see in Norwegian business, I think we should avoid Norwegian business being able to get into that kind of trouble. This is SV's starting point because we believe that the stock exchange should be organised as a self-ownership foundation. As a conclusion, I would say that if Norway joins or is bought by foreign companies, it might be possible for development to take place in such a way that Norway will have a small and marginalised stock exchange. There is no guarantee here that Oslo Børs will not simply become a pure branch. Let me also comment on the money that Oslo Børs wants to get from a sale. We are not against research, nor are we against spending part of this money on research on everything that goes on the trading of securities, but we believe that it must be seen in the context of all other research in this country, and that this money does not necessarily have to be earmarked for this type of research. This means that it is important to take this money into the state fund, and then the state fund goes further on how to prioritise Norwegian research, through the Norwegian Research Council. Unfortunately, SV, along with the Central Party, is in minority here on the most important question. I'm recording that the center has exploded, I see that in the Central Newspaper there is considerable unrest because of the Central Party's road choices, linked to the Center Option, so it could be a careful attempt from the Center Party to break free from an alliance that has not gained so much political benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e818	The aim of the Stock Exchange Act is to facilitate efficient, orderly and reliable markets for securities and other financial instruments. Stock exchanges and other market places for financial instruments face important international challenges due, inter alia, to: increased economic integration and technological development. The legislative proposal is designed taking into account the appropriate participation of Norwegian market places in the expected structural changes. The legislative proposal includes, inter alia: with a view to reducing the links between stock exchanges and public administration tasks. After examining alternative models for the organisation of exchange activities, the proposal proposes that the exchange be organised as a public limited-liability company. In practice, this means that Oslo Børs has to be transformed, something Oslo Børs himself has wanted. It is added to regulate so-called authorised market places. Stock exchanges and authorised market places are subject to supervision by the credit supervision. The proposal also contains a general update of the Stock Exchange Act. Furthermore, some amendments to the Securities Trading Act, the Credit Supervision Act and the Financial Activities Act have been proposed. I note that in the vote the Committee has followed up most of the Government's proposals. However, I would like to add some comments to the committee's comments in four areas. In the case of authorised market places, I have noticed that a majority support the proposal for the concession obligation for authorised market places. I have also noticed that another majority emphasises that there should be a difference both in the requirements for market venues compared to exchange and in the requirements for issuers listed on market venues compared to issuers listed on exchange. The legislative proposal just opens up for this. There are some simpler requirements for authorised marketplaces than for stock exchanges. Market places may, following the legislative proposal, decide for themselves the requirements to be imposed on issuers in important areas. The purpose of proposing legal rules for authorised market places is precisely to provide for market places which may impose slightly less requirements on issuers than the stock exchange does. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the draft law we have gone a little further than the sample proposed to provide that more of the inside rules than the sample proposed should apply to trading of instruments listed on authorised markets. With regard to sales revenue in the conversion of Oslo Stock Exchange, it is shown in both the proposition and in subsequent letters to the Committee that there is no legal impediment to the Storting determining that sales revenue is to be transferred to the State. We also have an internal language in Stortinget, and the term "antar" is probably a somewhat stronger legal expression than it is in the popular expression. I have noticed that there is a majority in the committee that the law states that the assets arising from the sale of the shares should be transferred to the state. I've noticed that a group committee «considers there is a need to ensure a high level of academic research and education». I assume that this view is general and not only relates to random income the state had to get at different times. The sales revenue from the conversion of Oslo Stock Exchanges must be expected to be large and the purposes to be met, if any, are so wide that it would not be reasonable to designate the use of these sales revenues. On the contrary, it is important that the funds to support academic research, higher education and information are seen in the context of other appropriations for the purpose and the general priority between efforts within the overall expenditure of the State budget. I have, however, taken note of the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, which has been notified of subsidiary support from the Advance Party and the Right, and will, of course, relate to it. With regard to netting rules for power derivatives, I have noticed that the Committee has joined the proposal for a regulatory body that will allow the granting of a market concession to markets for derivatives. I have also noticed that a majority would like to have the right now to design regulations whereby the rules of the Securities Trading Act, Sections 10-2 and 10-3, that written netting agreement and collateral against clearing houses can be maintained in bankruptcy, could also include agreements on negotiable forward and option contracts relating to goods and services. A sample has assessed the need for regulation of trade in product derivatives and has made proposals for legislation to that effect. The committee discusses the regulation of market places, intermediaries and trade as well as supervisory issues. There are a wide range of issues that need to be resolved in addition to the issues raised by the Committee in this setting. A difficult question is, for example: whether the insider trading prohibition in the Securities Trading Act shall also apply to trade in derivatives of goods. I have decided to deal with these questions as comprehensively as possible in the light of the suspension of the product derivative range. In the case of inside rules, I have noticed that: «The Committee is concerned that the law on insider dealing should be strict and not least clearly and objectively designed, regardless of whether the share is admitted to trading or unlisted.» The Committee also states: ‘The legislation in force is obviously not sufficient when it appears that illegal primary insider dealing is difficult to prove.’ In this respect, I would like to mention that in Ot.prp. No 72 for 1990-91 proposed a rule on the reversal of the burden of proof for primary insiders who acted while it was actually confidential, price-sensitive information about the issuer. However, the Committee did not agree to it at that time. As mentioned above, the current legislative proposal proposes that the prohibition of insider dealing should also apply to financial instruments that are listed or applied for on authorised market places. As I have also said, in the financial language and by letter to the Committee, I would like to make a proposal to clarify, streamline and strengthen the rules on illegal insider dealing for spring. The need for such enhancement has been further determined by recent exercises in the financial environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e874	I will be brief, but I would very much like to ask the Minister of Finance to elaborate a little bit on the Government's views on the proceeds of the transformation. It is registered that the Minister of Finance stated that because it is not legally, according to the Government's assessment, something is in the way of confiscating the money, yes, you do. Does the government think that because there's nothing legal about it, it's okay? Or does the Government consider it to be entitled to funds which, to the extent that they are not the property of the State? I recorded that the Minister of Finance did not answer that question. A significant part of the objection that the minority has is that it is not obvious that the state fund is entitled to this money. So some legal argument has been found to somehow defend the confiscation. I would very much like to see that deepened, especially because very good proposals have been made and reasons for using the proceeds in a different and appropriate way. I note that the Minister of Finance has some concern that this is such a great deal of money. Does it mean, then, that because this is so much money, the Treasury is better fit or better suited to manage this money than an exchange foundation to use it for research, education and information work? I would very much like the Council of State to elaborate on this a little bit further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e883	Let me first reserve myself against the use of the word confiscation, which I do not recognize in relation to the theme we are discussing here. There are two issues that are essential here. One is the legal basis. We believe that this has been clarified, and that there is no obstacle to the procedure proposed by the Government. The second is the question of whether it is appropriate or appropriate to do so. So the overall assessment of the government is that the funds should be allocated to the state fund most correctly and included in the overall priority taken into account. I note that a majority of the Stortinget also uses it as a starting point, but that it is an assessment that some of the funds should be available for specified purposes. To the extent that it is adopted today, of course, I take note of that. With regard to the amount of the amount, this is an amount entered on Random Income in the 2001 draft budget, so that the disposal of some of the funds also has the effect of reducing the allocation of the item Random Income accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e892	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 59]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e905	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e911	During the debate, Mr Reikvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left, put forward the following proposal: ‘The Government requests that proposals be submitted by the Government that the requirement for general study competence be completed at secondary school.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1016	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1025	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1031	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposal No. 3, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 4, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1156	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 2-1 An entity may set up a pension scheme in accordance with the rules of the law here in order to ensure that the employees of the enterprise receive an old-age pension in addition to the benefits paid at any time under the law on social security. [[(1): (1)]] This does not apply to undertakings which have occupational retirement provision schemes.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1173	Is there something that's unclear? Now the Odelsting needs to tighten up and follow me a little bit! The president thinks he's good at directing, but then he wants to take the vote again. An alternative between the setting of § 2-1 and the proposal is first votered, then over the setting of and [[1]] [[2]] [[3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1221	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 3, from the Progress Party and the representative of Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 2 to 3 of the Pensions Pension Act are replaced by the following: The Pension Scheme shall include at least one person in the enterprise who has a working time and salary in the enterprise representing 75 pst. [[1]] [[1]] or more of a full-time job.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1252	The party of progress and the Right has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1290	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Bastisen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 2 to 6 of the Employment Pensions Act are replaced by the following: Entities which have pension insurance shall set up a management group of at least two persons for the pension scheme. [[1]] [[1]] At least one of the persons shall be chosen by and from among the members.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1361	For b there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Furthermore, the Socialist Left Party has announced that they are against the b. The proposal of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party reads: «Section 3-1(b)(b) as a collective investment fund for the undertaking in accordance with the rules of Sections 3 to 3 or point (b) of the establishment shall become point (c).»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1390	I voted incorrectly on the proposal from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1397	It's registered. It has nothing to say for the outcome of the vote, but the President thanks for coming along.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1416	The President will then vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to new § 3-3. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 3 to 3:§ 3 to 3 Investment choices in collective schemes If it is agreed that the pension capital linked to the pension scheme shall constitute a separate investment portfolio subject to collective management, the undertaking shall have access to change the composition of the investment portfolio. [[1]] Before doing so, the management board shall be given the opportunity to comment. The provisions of the second paragraph of Section 3-2 apply mutatis mutandis. [[2]] [[3]] If the market value of the investment portfolio is reduced during a financial year, the reduction shall be covered immediately by the transfer from the deposit fund and otherwise by grants from the undertaking. The institution corresponds to the fact that uncovered impairment is otherwise covered.§§3-3, 3-4 and 3-5 become §§3-4, 3-5 and 3-6.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1440	The President is not quite sure if everyone has complied with the voting obligation here, but will let it pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1454	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1526	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 4-2, first paragraph: the pension scheme shall cover all employees of the undertaking who have reached the age of 20, unless otherwise provided for by the law here and the corresponding regulations. [[1]] Lower age may be laid down in the legislation.’» In addition, the party notifying them that they support the first paragraph of the suspension subsidiaryly. – It is confirmed. Furthermore, the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against the second, third and fourth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1538	We support the second term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1545	After this briefing, there will be separate voting over the second paragraph and the third and fourth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1597	Here the Progress Party and the Right have notified that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1645	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 5 to 2 For the application of the provisions of the first subparagraph, account shall be taken of the fact that women generally have longer lives than men.» [[(2): (2)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1689	The Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced that they are moving towards the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1830	Because this is a varying majority, the president will explain the voting term to the term term, and we'll start with the first term. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they are moving towards the first sentence, and it is therefore only voted above this sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1843	For the second sentence there is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The President will draw attention to a correction in relation to this proposal, which is included on page 70 of the vote. The proposal under the second sentence of Section 7-1 of the first paragraph shall apply to the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 7-3. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 7-1, second sentence:In the payment order, the pension capital certificate shall be converted into pension insurance of the life insurance company or pension fund as referred to in Sections 2 to 2. [[1]] Pension funds converting pension capital as defined herein shall comply with the requirements of the Act on Occupational Pensions Section 2-2, second paragraph.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1859	For the second and third subparagraphs, an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Articles 7 to 3 The old-age pension shall be provided from the time the member is entitled to a pension under Section 7 to 2 and shall run as long as the member lives. [[(2): (2)]] It cannot be stipulated in the legislation that the old-age pension should cease or that the pension benefit should be reduced after a certain number of years.§ 7-3 If the institution does not guarantee the old-age pension, a single year shall not exceed that year's expected remaining period of payment on the basis of the calculation of the insurance.» [[(3): (3)]] An alternative vote is taken between the vote and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1881	So it goes over the fourth and fifth terms. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the SV and the Left have announced that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e1894	So it goes over the sixth term. Here, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e2179	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to the new § 14-2. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 14-2:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e2226	We are voting on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to the new § 15-2: ‘Section 15-2:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e2452	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e2460	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e2492	B, C, D, E and F shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late, but according to the decision of the Stortinget earlier today, the Odelstingen meeting continues until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e2500	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 2, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing proposal No. 3, by Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and Left Proposal No. 4, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, says: «The Government is asked by the Government in the context of the Revised National Budget 2001 to submit proposals for the creation and extent of a fund in order to promote increased knowledge of capital formation, raise awareness and understanding of business ethics and also research in these areas.» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e2564	Section 1-3, first paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and the representative of Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «Article 1-3, first paragraph:Authorised market place means an entity that organises or operates a market for financial instruments that facilitates trading in regular and public quotes of financial instruments and which is authorised by law here.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e2616	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 2-1, first paragraph:The stock exchange may be operated only by undertakings authorised to do so by the Ministry. The Ministry may, on application, authorise undertakings active in the authorised market place.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e2708	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «§3-1, first paragraph:Situation shall be organised as a self-proprietary institution. The Ministry may provide detailed rules on the stock exchange organised as a self-owned institution.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e2810	For the first sentence of the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «None may own shares representing more than 20 pst. by the share capital or voting rights of an exchange.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e3028	The President will take note of a correction here. Authorised market places shall be Part III, not Part IV as set out in the option. There is an aberrant proposal, No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 6-1:Authorised market place shall be organised as a self-owned institution.The Ministry may provide detailed rules on authorised market place organised as a self-owned institution.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e3265	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and the representative of Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e3322	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the third sentence of the second paragraph and to the fourth paragraph. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e3757	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e3803	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-19-lower.ana.ud538e3811	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
