ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e79	The representative Per Sandberg, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of Akershu County, André Kukkestad, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e99	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3160]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e113	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e124	In the last year, we have really focused on education policy and seen the truth of a forward-looking knowledge and education strategy. Not only through the tough election campaign, but also in the future, we have had major discussions about important areas such as youth challenges, teacher recruitment and the need for a strong boost in research. Now that we've got a new Minister of Education who points out the direction with a fresh commitment to the whole education sector, I hope this will be a priority area for a broad majority in Stortinget. The aim of this initiative is to enable everyone to participate in the new knowledge society. Education policy is also a policy of sharing: knowledge and education give everyone a chance to realise their skills, and by continuing to focus on education, we will strengthen and further develop the welfare state. The sphere should not be an institution that exists and lives its own life on the side of society. The sphere is an important part of society and affects society, as much as the school is also influenced by the outside world. In a Norway where developments each day are moving in the direction of greater differences, I believe that we need the school more and more as a common meeting place for children with different backgrounds. So I'm completely in agreement with the Council of State's vision of the common sphere. Having a common school is more important than ever, because tolerance and understanding are best bred when children from different cultures and religions spend time together and do not live in separate ways even if they live in the same place. The right side will certainly attack us in the Labour Party here today and say that we want to destroy the private spheres. But my main point is not that I'm against private schools. I'm primarily for an extra bet on the public school. I respect the parents' right to choose school for their children. Norway will follow the international agreements that we have concluded, we will not in any way prohibit the private spheres. What I'm asking questions about is that while the public schools have to fight for the money every year on the same lines as any other good purpose like that. measures for the elderly, the sick and the elderly, private schools may claim their statutory right to support independently of the budgetary situation. In one case we've also seen the creation of a private school tear the foundation away from the public school in the city or weaken the quality to a great extent, because the municipality gets reduced permissions. The Labour Party emphasises that young people who choose public solutions must also have the right to a good school. The best way to dampen the growth in private schools is to have a public school that is as good as possible. To a certain extent, this is about resources, that is, money for the schools and municipalities, but it is equally important that the schools are able to use the space for action in the new curriculums when it comes to developing a good school – or a fresh school, which uses local forces, plays on its abilities and uses new forms of learning. Today it is not catheter education that is at the center, but experience learning, group work and project work. The representative Odd Einar Dørum has previously asked for the old teacher. I'm afraid that teacher probably belongs to an elusive race. When living in working life, today's elephants must have learned to explore the jungle of knowledge, must be able to impart their knowledge to others, and must be able to cooperate. But to learn this, it's not enough with a good curriculum. Many of our schools are built for traditional forms of teaching, and many of our teachers feel that they are not able to acquire enough skills in these areas. This is something we have to take seriously. Quality must be a tab page for the public school. Not long ago, Stortinget managed the action plan for recruiting the teacher profession. I think that everyone here in the hall was some of that without good teachers it helps little to talk about increasing quality in the school. I've visited several schools lately, and I've got the impression that very much depends on the initiative and the willingness of the individual teacher. We need to help create a school environment where everyone is encouraged to develop good learning methods, even though we sometimes have scarce frames. But we also need to be willing to give priority to the school, both centrally and locally. The recruitment message provided many good suggestions for improvements, with which the Council of State must continue to work. It's important that everyone gets the right to a good school. Such a school will work for the Workers' Party, and we'll have to call him the 'common ball'.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e153	I record that when he presents the Labour Party's future school policy, he wants flexibility, justice, intensity, creativity and quality in school. That sounds really nice, and that's something we can all agree with. It's just that the school that the Workers' Party stands for, and that this party has built up through its power position in Norwegian society, is not characterized by flexibility, special justice, especially intensity, creativity, or especially good quality. Compared with other countries, it turns out that the quality is very low. When almost everyone is forced into the Equality School of the Workers Party, which is characterized by lack of freedom, lack of healthy competition, and which is without proper quality control, it almost has to be that way. I would like to remind you here that the Labour Party has voted against all the constructive proposals of the Progress Party on getting school evaluations, on getting an independent inspectorate's system or on a monitoring system that can carry out quality control at school. In terms of creativity and flexibility, we actually have a very bureaucratic and rule-driven school where most people are forced into a public unit school, whether they like it or not. In many places, the school choice is governed by circuit boundaries and coercion. Even high school students, in most cases, cannot choose where they want to take their education. It's hot talking about justice. Is this fair? Is it fair that we don't treat private and public schools financially? Is it fair for those who feel that a public school does not have the necessary quality, creativity and flexibility they want and who therefore want to establish their own school to have strong restrictions on this? The response of the Party of Presidents to this is a clear no! I would like to hear the representative's reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e168	I think I've heard this post from the Progress Party before, it's written and repeated in the same way every year. It will not be corrected for that reason. We have a good school, but we have to talk more and do more when it comes to quality, that's what we're busy about. We can compare with other countries. Reports that we have received — and several of them are coming this week — show that we can compare ourselves in all ways with different countries when it comes to school bets. Then I heard that the representative Knudsen in his post criticized the public school. What's most important to me is that we bet on the public school, that we get a good offer, that the school gets good quality. And it's not true that the Workers' Party is not concerned with the shortage in the school, that everyone should be allowed to take their leaders and abilities. It's important, we've done that, and we're still going to do that. It's important that we have a private supplement, but we must not forget that most of the young people go to public school, and that's in the public school we have to bet on better quality. That's the most important thing, and there probably won't be the Labour Party and the Progress Party any more. But at least I'm completely convinced that what the Labour Party stands for is the best thing for the students in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e175	The school shall be a common meeting place for all children," said Ranveig Frøiland. I agree that the school is a meeting place. But giving an equivalent offer is not the same thing as giving an equal offer. Initiative, commitment and motivation are not something that can be adopted, it must be created, and the distance from the writing desk in the ministry to the classroom is great. Public schools consist of single schools living in the field of tension between diversity and uniform frameworks. The initiative must come from below, as it has been encouraged in recent years by the central government turning a heavy school-political pyramid. The fact that the Workers' Party is now taking a settlement with the single school is good, but when the common school is defined according to the status, religion and intelligence, as it is done in the presentation, it is completely wrong. Anyway, you never get all the students into the same school, with the same teachers, with the same trips, etc., because we live in different places. Students in private schools also have such a different complex background. And I'm going to ask, is there a difference in principle between schools that are justified in alternative pedagogics and schools that are justified in life's vision? We have a Prime Minister who has chosen a Steiner School, and I have chosen to attend Christian High School – is there any difference in principle? Why are they 1.55 pst. by the students who go to private school, a threat? The best means – I agree – is to bet on good quality in public schools. But what is the Labour Party's view of parental rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e186	The Christian People's Party and the other centre parties and the Workers' Party have very much in common in school policy, in education policy – a policy that we have had together in the time we had a central government, and which I hope we will be together for years to come. When it concerns parental rights, I said in my post that I don't only have a great deal of respect for it – I actually respect it, it should just be lacking, and we have arranged for that to be done. But the parents' right to choose school is one thing, what the state should participate in and fund by it, is another discussion. And that's when I want to point out that as the situation is in relation to the budgetary discussions here in the Stortinget, there's a cut when it comes to school, there's a cut when it comes to education -- and then we have a private school law that makes the private spheres, regardless of the budgetary situation, cover a certain percentage. I think it's important to point that out. I'm not basically against the private ball, but it's important for me to get a good public school. Nor is it the case that the Workers' Party's school policy is that everyone should have a equal offer. It hasn't been, and it still shouldn't be. But we're going to have an equal supply to everyone, regardless of where they live, what resources they have, and what abilities they have to make out of school. We've always stood for that, and if we call it a single school or a common school, it's kind of the same thing. It's not a given with anything, but the common sphere is actually something that people feel they're included in. Therefore, it is important to use the correct words. So ask the representative if there's a fundamental difference in schools with alternative pedagogics and life-views. The Labour Party, once we have dealt with this, has said that the percentage of private debt should continue to apply to schools with alternative pedagogics. But when it comes to life-vision schools, which are often not a threat, so something that comes instead of public school, they should get a smaller percentage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e197	I shall comment little on the self-criticism on behalf of the Labour Party – and the strong element of the AUF rhetoric that lies in the State Council’s posts, but what strikes me is the difference between the Labour Party in the opposition and the Labour Party in the government position. While the Labour Party in opposition went with the Right to increase the means of conversion to higher education, they are now going into practice to reduce them. What's changed? Does the Labour Party still not see the need for change in higher education? In opposition, the Workers' Party and the Right agreed to a 2 million prize. kr to Urbygningen at the University of Oslo – a small amount, but a very important thing. Now the Labour Party proposes to cut this amount in the position. Doesn't the Labour Party see that this is both embarrassing and small? So the Council of State says that the training must be flexible so that all the elephants have a supply of their abilities and abilities. Yes, this is as if Right would have said it – but what about practice? This means that students who are very good at some area, for example. in the youth sphere, whether theoretical or practical, shall be given the possibility of greater freedom of choice, as proposed by the Right; Can the Workers' Party support Right's ideas in this area? The Council of State also says, commendably enough, that he wants greater creativity and diversity. When it comes to the base ball, Norway, as everyone in this room knows, has one of the most centralized education systems in the world. The Workers' Party will now give teachers greater freedom, for example: for the use of resources in the individual school? Will the Labour Party also dissolve in the regulatory celebration of the educational part of the 1997 curriculum?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e208	There was no self-confidence in my article, it was a description of the situation and the policy we want to pursue. Can we sometimes take time to enjoy the school we have today, which is actually very good, and which tolerates comparison with the other countries in Europe? Actually, that's what it's all about. It's not always necessary, I thought, that in the big picture we're going to measure how black it is, how negative it is. There is a lot of good in school, and we have a lot of good teachers who do a very good job – I have seen that because I have been able to be around some schools in the short time I have been in the committee. And these we should pink sometimes. When it's up to the Council of State, we'll get back to it. It's not held. This is what the state council will do later. In the case of university and high-spherical means of conversion, conversion is necessary. That's how we see it, and we were together with the Right to increase the funds for conversion. And so it's in a revised budget that when we in the Labour Party have an agreement with the middle parties that we should stick to a sum and spend the money after that – and now there are excesses both when it comes to payments to the people's rights, to the KFOR forces, and to various other things – we have seen the commitment of this agreement to reduce other items. I'm not happy with the $10 million cut. kr to conversion funds, but they are not taken from the funds they have received. They don't listen to cut, they get less for conversion. And then we're going to get back to how to get to the transition that's absolutely necessary. It is an important work to do from universities and universities. I wasn't surprised that I got a question about the $2 million. kr for the Outbuilding. It is important to do something about it. Now you know both the representative Løvik and I at 2 million. kr is not all that is going on. It's the beginning. Then one has to come back to the sanity. I think it's absolutely necessary. The revised budget is not yet processed. We'll see what happens. The budget for the autumn is also important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e221	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e225	The media performance of state councils on organisation, quality and not least the school for all created expectations for the presentation. After hearing what was really in the bag, I ask questions as to whether the state school in the period from 1945 to 2000 has been a classy, segregated school. When I hear the promises and thoughts of the Council of State for the future, the next question will be: What in the world did the actual Council of State Hernes with more from the Workers' Party with our school – especially when the Council of State Gieske expresses itself as if the Norwegian school has been flying a false flag for many, many years? It seems that the establishment of private schools has been required to an even greater extent than today, according to the picture the Council of State draws from the State School. The Children’s Act states that parents are responsible for the education and training of their children. It is therefore a concern when new government councils seek to water down the rights and obligations of parents to choose the education they experience as best for their children. Time and again, looking up in the media that shows that the state school does not meet the demands of children on a safe and transparent day-to-day school, I find it chaotic and close to dishonest when access to school outside the state school is cut or completely eliminated by systematic undermining and reduction of the offer. Work is further sought legitimately by sighting and argumentation without professional substance. I'll show you what I'm aiming for. Professor Terje Ogden, in theory and practice as early as 1987, said the following about school integration measures: ‘These measures are isolated and likely to have been experienced as a helping hand by many pupils and their supervisors, but they may also lead to discharge and the lack of competence development in the ordinary school.’ Is this what the Council of State is aiming for? Furthermore, a 1998 NOVA report by Sørlie and Nordahl showed how the school tends to diagnose pathologically, i.e. that there is something wrong with the student. It is then avoided that clear questions are asked about the school's independent contribution when the problems overwhelm us all. It seems that once again we've got something new to deal with when it's claimed that we're on our way into the knowledge society, and then that knowledge is increasingly constant. This is correct, but it surprises me that this seems to be fresh for the Council of State and the Workers' Party. Already in St.meld. No 54 for 1989-90 it is stated that behavioural problems in terms of behavioural or social or emotional difficulties appear to be a major and increasing problem in both primary and secondary education. The Progress Party has taken these relationships inwards long ago, and therefore we repeat and promote proposals based on the need for a knowledge-based society, when knowledge is constantly changing, to be based on the quality of the basic material on which changeable knowledge is based. Without a well-considered quality assessment of the training, which everyone gets, we can lose our feet completely and not just be out and out as now. I would argue that if we don't fight in time, the knowledgeable glare will still be smoother. What does a fair education policy in a fair society mean? This is not a constant, as can be seen in the statement, but to the most extent a variable or simply an unknown factor in an uncreated equation. Flexibility in a desired ‘fresh’ school depends on more than words. Justice must be based on more than one ideology. The ease of use of a widely charged concept such as uniformity is more than special. First he rams up different faiths, and suddenly he sneaks into social status; one school for poor children and one school for rich children. It is a concern if a government council seeks to conceal the dimensions of shortcoming in the state school by turning it into poor or rich issues, thereby excluding a highly required debate on the professional content and competence of the state school. I will then address the proposals No. 5 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e260	The representative, Evje, has taken up the proposals No. 5 and 8, as she prepared for. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e265	The party of progress represents a preserving school – everything that is, must be preserved and preserved. There are very few new ideas in the Evjes post. It applies to catheter education, gaping sticks, characters and folk. There are recurrences in the Prom Party's school bats in the last few years. This is not the way to develop quality and flexibility, and not least the provision of education for those who have not received such a good balance in growth. The progress game uses a lot of words in the field of private schools. The working party is not against private schools, but we think that the common ball, which is now being launched, is important. It takes care of abilities and facilities, it shows respect for the different values that individuals take with them into the school community, and it is a school that is adapted to the individual student. In fact, for the last 30 years, we've had a multicultural society in this country, and we also have to take care of it in education. My question to the representative Evje is: What policy does the Progress Party have in these areas that I have now mentioned? When the Labour Party assesses the establishment of private schools, it is the moment we must weigh. These include: the importance of the public school, the promotion of gender equality and the fulfilment by Norway of its obligations through the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. What criterion does the Progress Party put at the bottom to allow them to approve private schools? Is it that it's just clear forward? Is it the choice of parents that should always be the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e276	When the representative Oppebøen Hansen angles his line to me like this, it seems right for me to say that it is with great amazement that I read that the Ministry of Church, Education and Research has withdrawn the approval of the Oasen Children's School in the municipality of Songdalen in West Agder. This school was approved barely two months ago. Does not the Council of State and the Workers' Party know what the words stability and predictability mean for parents and children in terms of school choice? When it comes to what we use as a basis for choosing school, that's of course the law we passed, based on ratified conventions, the human rights law, a little over a year ago. In fact, it says – and I've said it before from this pulpit – that it should be a sunshine right for parents to be able to choose anything other than the public alternative. It goes on to say, just as clearly, that there should be a right that this should be free of charge. And so the whole argument for snuffing in, that it should not be paid in public, falls away. We have adopted this. It says in Article 13, and I am amazed that it takes so long to make this sink into this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e283	The progress party is also concerned with private schools, as the Christian People's Party is, and that's good. But I would like to challenge the Progress Party on this matter with the content of public schools, to which of course we also have to deal, as it is today, and then first of all I would like to ask about the student vision of the Advance Party. The Progress Party continues to focus on this with discipline and order when they outline their solution to today’s challenges. But can this not be enough? There is no complete solution just from this, and I want the Progress Party to deepen its view of the student. What does it mean that we must also have initiative and motivation in school, which not only can be adopted but must be created? How can you do this? With regard to today's educational and professional challenges, we also need to develop the school in today's society. Then yesterday's solutions don't hold. What is the view of the Progress Party on the student?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e292	If I'm going to take this question literally, I have to answer as if 550 000 students in primary school were one student. They're not, of course. They're 550 000 original and different individuals, and therefore you can't have one view of the students in the Norwegian school. With regard to public school content, the Progress Party has repeatedly announced that the content must be based on constant values that we can relate to and that we can control, secure and evaluate. As far as discipline, order and order are concerned, the external framework measures that need to be put in place to ensure a good learning environment. In the midst of a war, there is no positive learning, and to many today the school appears to be a war zone. The Oslo School is a good example, and the representative Dørum will probably be happy to tell you about it. When it comes to creating the initiative and motivation of students, this is part of the action space between school and parents as equivalent partners in providing education to children. But then the school has to get out of that school for a scary number of years -- pedagogues think they're omnipotent and don't feel there's a need to look at parents as equivalent partners in this interaction. And I think they have to go inward. I have made proposals many times, proposals on conflict management solutions, etc. Everything has been downgraded. You might ask me -- I like to teach, but it has little effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e303	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e306	We are within the knowledge society. The new way to organise work in our century will be based on knowledge, learning and innovation. This focuses on education policy, and the presentation points to several challenges and contexts. I have particularly noted the desire to make educational cooperation with poor countries more central. This is fully in line with the Christian People's Party's priorities in aid policy. Technology is often produced as the engine of rapid changes in society, but technology alone does not create change. It's man's response to technology that creates change. In our century, technology will promote a shift in culture and behavior because we communicate more with more. The knowledge society also imposes new requirements on management. The last Yearbook of the BI points out that ethics and consideration for personal actions are fundamental success factors for the management of the knowledge economy. A stronger recognition and justification that learning must also focus on ethics and value sharing can hardly be gained. Therefore, the school must emphasize human dignity and human rights and show care for the students under responsibility of itself and the community. It is a flare of the value base when participation is abolished as the main norm. The content of the school's circulation and practical compliance must be at the centre. True learning begins with the influence of true care. In its presentation, the Council of State wanted to emerge with a fresh policy. Having seen the concrete follow-up to postponing important trials of new school resource allocation and a committed attack on the possibilities of fresh schools, this healthy rhetoric has become highly faded. For the Christian People's Party it is incomprehensible that about 1.8 pst. Of the students in Norway, the biggest threat to Norwegian public school is becoming the most important for getting a fair school. After all, it must be more important to focus on the conditions of the other 98 pst. Oh, my God! The Council of State has followed up this week refusing the approval of a comprehensive school in West Agder by placing a decisive emphasis on the municipality's justification for the drop in the number of students and the risk of school closures. This is an exercise of discretion in the private school law that the majority of Stortinget rejected before Christmas. One consequence of the discretion of the Council of State must be that parental rights can only apply in cities and populous areas. Thus, a democratic right is restricted by geography and residence in Norway. Such a vision of democracy does not share the Christian People's Party. The state council's judgement here undermines the purpose of the private school law and the possibility for parents in District Norway to invoke the parental right. We strongly disagree, and find the exercise of discretion doubtful according to the intention of the law. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to further develop Norwegian school for a better school. Based on the needs we see, it is necessary to focus on the professional teacher, the active student and the exploitation of the local classrooms in school. I see the presentation as a support for such a focussing. I do, however, lack a stronger priority, for example. for the benefit of youth. The need for important flexibility adapted training for individual students and the use of different learning environments share the Christian People's Party with the Council of State. However, we will add that flexibility also requires greater freedom for schools and teachers. A bet on quality is also right. This is why the recruitment policy of teachers with pay and training is becoming so important. Here it remains to be seen what the Government wills. But we also need a debate on what is quality. In the Christian People's Party we want process-oriented quality work in school because time and place, i.e. the situation, are an important element of the quality concept. There may be a risk of school unification by implementing national indicators of quality, thus speeding up flexibility. Therefore, I am waiting and asking what this state council announced here, will mean for School-Norway and the individual teacher. The Mjøs Committee has presented its proposals for changes in higher education. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with the proposals, and attend the debate. The Christian People's Party will give universities and colleges greater freedom, and we want the degree system to conform to international standards. However, we would like to study more closely the market orientation of the proposal for a financing system, inter alia. what it will mean for the district colleges. After the presentation, I note that the new Council of State will continue much of what the central government stood for. But at the same time, I see changes in ideological focus. While a Christian democrat would have stressed the balance between the individual and the community, I experience a Social Democratic Council of State being concerned with the collective values of school policy. Therefore, the focus disappears from the individual student and parents’ rights. It's a retreat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e328	The Christian People's Party has until recently had the Council of State in the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, and I was excited about the approach that the representative Lyngstad wanted to take to the presentation of the new Council of State. I wasn't surprised by the concerns of the Health Schools, but I honestly think that the Council of State, Giske, has set the threshold fairly low in not provoking too much in relation to the cooperation of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. I had at least expected that the representative Lyngstad had had a more positive view of what the Council of State put much emphasis on, namely a fair education, which, for the most part, regardless of the political party, is an area of concern. And that's what lies as a basic thread in the Council of State's presentation. But it could be interesting if the representative Lyngstad could make something more visible what he disagrees with in the lines that the presentation draws up, not least in relation to the very concept of primary school and the basis for fair education for all, and also an adapted training, which is quite fundamental in the presentation. Then I don't have to get a new round about the significance of the freshness school, but will just get something more visible that he doesn't agree with in the principal features of the Council of State Giske's statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e335	The representative of Kristiansen said that the new council tried to avoid provoking too much in the presentation. I think that's a good sign and would wish it had been so well. But when one of the most involved in the Council's presentation just went on the attack at the boarding schools, there's a very clear signal of a line break, and it's a line break that provokes us. Furthermore, I also noticed that the focus on youth was very weak. I think that a stronger focus on and prioritisation of youth would be an invitation to cooperate with the Christian People's Party, and I would believe many others in this Chamber as well. It is clear that fair education is also important for the Christian People's Party. Equal rights to education are a central objective and a central value also for us. A stronger emphasis on adapted training is also desirable. But then it becomes important for me to find that adapted training means focusing on the individual student and not necessarily a way of changing rhetoric from one school to another, as I feel this is being used by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e345	There were not so many concrete programme declarations that the Education Council Trond Giske came with when he joined as State Council. The only thing that we clearly saw in the media was that the council wanted to make it harder for private schools. As I understand it, the Christian People's Party is concerned about this. In Norwegian Skoleblad nr. 11 for 2000 it says: ‘Minister of Education Trond Giste warns that he will practise the private school law more stringently than his predecessor Jon Lilletun [[Ap]] [[KrF]] According to the School Bulletin, the Council of State will have a different view of private schools than the Christian People's Party Councils had. ‘The approval of private schools is about the exercise of discretion’, writes Norsk Skoleblad, quoting what the Council of State Giske should have said to the newspaper Aftenposten. He should have said that he is going to manage the discretion far more restrictively than his predecessor. Now it is true that the State Council of Lilletun had a clear majority in its back in its practice in relation to private schools. Both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Parties wanted liberal judgement in this area. Some of us had even wanted Lilletun to go much further than he did, but we could leave it in this context. Now the majority in this Chamber has not changed since Gish joined as Minister of Education. Then I think it is important for us to maintain the positive line that was in relation to the private schools, and my party colleague Ursula Evje has presented in today's meeting two proposals that will meet this. My question to the representative Lyngstad is: Has the Christian People's Party changed politics and is now opposed to its own policy as it was a few weeks ago, or will they support these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e363	I have also registered that the Council of State wishes to practice a stricter judgement in the field of high school. I have also registered that he has already done so – a judgement in a matter that I disagree with, which I explained in my article. The Christian People's Party has not changed the line in these matters with regard to colleges. We've always said that we focus on good law management according to its intentions. It's a line that we'll still fight for and stand on, and that also means that we have to be clear on which principles to base the recognition of schools. Only reference to a liberal practice can be seen as a signal of full opening for all schools without emphasising quality requirements, but it is still necessary to maintain quality requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e370	Just to have made it quite clear: Even the Right of course believes that there is a lot of good in today's Norwegian school. We also mean that it's the public school that's going to use the largest resources, and that's going to have the main focus, but that doesn't mean that everything is good, and that the public school alone can solve the challenges we're facing. The representative of Lyngstad stated that the freshness of the government council was already falsifying. And when one connects the chosen one to announce about its school policy, which came a year ago that the center of its school policy is a pale deflector of the Workers' Party's school policy, there will not be much color left on that particular policy. Then my question is, couldn't it be an idea to turn your head around and look to the Right and look at all the good things that are in our policy? Lyngstad feared the Workers' Party's flexibility as a flake, and it is not the representative Lyngstad and the Christian People's Party alone. The representative Lyngstad was also inside private schools, which we and the Christian People's Party have seen as a useful supplement and not just as a supplement for those who have plenty of money and resources; we think we need to have extra arrangements that make the refreshers an alternative for everyone. At the same time, the representative Lyngstad – probably quite rightly – was concerned about the complexity of the quality used by the Council of State in its introduction. Then my question is: couldn't it be when it concerns these three areas and in many other areas, maybe an idea, as I said, to look a little bit the other way to see if we couldn't get a little turn in the direction where both the Christian People's Party and the Right belong, to the right of the school policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e381	It is true that last year we were told that the school policy of the Centre was a pale deflector of the Labour Party's policy. At that time, I replied – and I still believe so – that the Christian People's Party and Center were pursuing a school policy that we have always stood for. We want a bet at public school. That's why it's so important to focus on the situation of the 98 pst. by students at school – not the 2 pst. That's why it's also important that we get an improved municipal economy, which allows you to get resources to the municipalities around, so that they also have something to do with. Here we have a big challenge, and we look with excitement to the municipal economic proposition that the Government will present tomorrow. For the Christian People's Party, it has always been the content of politics that has been crucial to whom we cooperate. We're still on it. And when you look at it, you'll see that we've worked with parties in different ways. I can give an example that I think will please the Right, and that is the proposal that the Workers' Party has also agreed to, namely to suspend the approval system for textbooks. It is an example that we also cooperate with other sides, while in concrete matters it is also natural to cooperate with the Workers' Party when we have common views. The Christian People's Party has always been concerned with conducting its own school policy and gaining its attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e388	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e391	It is always exciting to listen to the first statement from a new Council of State and especially exciting this time, because I believe that for the first time in human memory we have got a new Minister of Church, Education and Research who has used at least the first month of his Council of State to be Minister of Church and to be relatively invisible in the other two fields for which the Department is responsible. The more important it becomes when the debut he has in Stortinget is when he is going to present his educational policy views. It is very good to say about the education policy presentation of the Council of State Giske. It has a highly developed rhetoric, and I mean that as a compliment – provided that it also turns out to be content behind the words in the next round. It has a high level of ambition. Governments want to see Norway’s educational policy challenges in a global perspective, not just in a national perspective. It's also affordable. The Council of State attaches great importance to quality and says that the major challenge we face is to raise the quality of all levels of the Norwegian school and education system. For the ten years that lie behind us, we have been very concerned about expanding capacity, not least in the higher education and university systems. Now it's time for us to be interested in the content and quality of education. All of this is excellent! Let me also add that I listened with great interest to the Council of State's commitment to flexibility and diversity. Almost everything he said about this topic, words for another could have been drawn from the Higher Education Policy over the past 20 years. What remains in all these areas, which I think there is a large majority in the Great Britain who can stand behind, is, of course, the operationalisation. There I have to say that the Council of State's presentation disappoints to some extent. It is true, however, that education policy and other statements by state councils are necessarily moving at a high level of generalisation, but I think that the Council of State Giske's investigation in this way was even more significant than what we are used to, and that there were even fewer concrete details of how the Council of State intends to deal with the quality challenge, how the Council of State wants to ensure that we get more diversity, that we get more adapted education, adapted to the individual student. That must be the continuation. If the sections that I have now commented on in a positive way are to have some value, the continuation must be in the concrete, and that concreteization I hope the Council of State will come to the Stortinget with soon. One of the sections of the State Council statement to which I listened with particular interest was the introduction of ‘We want a education where quality is a general objective’. There, the Council of State even asks five rhetorical questions, which reads as follows: We spend $15 billion on higher education. We have to ask, are we going to get enough for all the money we spend? We have 21,000 employees in the sector. We have to ask, do we get the maximum out of all the knowledge they have? Is the research good enough? Are we recruiting the best teachers?’ And then the very best question: Are students and students encouraged to do their very best, to extend their achievements to the utmost, to break their own boundaries?" All of these questions are entirely preferential rhetorical questions, and I am tempted to ask the Council of State what he thinks is the answer to them. My personal work hypothesis is that the answer is no to all five questions, and if the council had not agreed with me, he might not have found it worth asking the questions. But once again, if it's true that the answer to all these questions is no, it becomes really interesting and crucial: what does the Council of State intend to do about it, especially with regard to the last two questions? Are we recruiting the best teachers? Given that the answer is no: how are we going to reverse that trend? If students and students today are not encouraged to do their very best, to extend their achievements to the extreme, yes, then again the question: What concrete measures does the Council of State see separately for us to do so? We're 100 pst. agree on the objectives, but I suspect that we can disagree on the instruments, and then it is important that we have that disagreement clarified. At one point I have to say that the Council of State statement is directly disappointing, and that is the section in which he directs his cannons towards the colleges of this country. On this point, there is a striking absence of everything that resembles global perspectives, of comparison with the education systems of other countries – this is home-grown Norwegian, and it is home-lined according to a very old dogmatic model. When the Council of State claims that opening up to fresh schools creates ‘uniformity correction’, it is quite thoughtful that he is the Council of State in a government where, for the first time in the history of Norway, a prime minister has spent the entire elementary school in a private school. It is possible that for that reason he is more uniform than the average in the population, or that he would be less uniform if he had gone to public school, but the claim itself is completely meaningless at my discretion. If it were right for private schools to create uniformity, the Danes would have had to be eight times more uniform than the Nordics are, because there are eight times as many primary school students going to fresh schools in Denmark. I have not registered that there is such a difference between Danes and Norwegians. Nor does there exist a single democracy in this world, to my knowledge, that shares this belief that the condition for developing an open, tolerant society is that everyone goes to the same school for at least ten years, maybe even thirteen years. In my opinion, the working party has a fundamental ambiguity with private schools. We are accused of talking a lot about them, but no one is talking more about them than the Workers' Party itself, but always in negative order and always to limit the possibilities of schools as much as it can be done. When the committee leader today says that parental rights are correctly accepted, but it does not need any economic implications on the part of society, and even suggests that there is a social difference between parents who want an alternative for life's sake, and the parents who want it for educational reasons – the last one has to be fully supported, the others are not to be supported – I should like to hear the reason why. Is it suggested that parents who want a life-view option in school are richer, have a better economy, are socially better off? The answer to that is, to my knowledge of Norwegian society, a no. If you want to show social discrimination against people, you have to do just as the committee leader recommended – you create an unfair school in this country. Finally, flexibility – a concrete point: on the right, I would like to make a proposal that I would like to mention, on the subject of the processing of the position of the Berg Committee. It is part of the flexibility of the Norwegian school offer that we lack a customised offer between higher education and university and higher education. In the State Council's statement, you can read it so that he intends to wait with the follow-up of the Berg Committee's position until you can deal with it with the Mjøs Committee and the Aamodt Committee. We don't want to. We want to get that case as quickly as possible to Stortinget, and I hope that it will be a majority for that. In the case of flexibility throughout the Norwegian school system, the Council of State is facing a dilemma at this point. In order to give far greater freedom to the individual school, to the individual teacher, to each class, it is necessary to ensure that the qualitative national offer is equivalent to all. And my question then is: does the new emphasis of the Council of State on flexibility mean that he will also take the necessary steps and follow up the request of the Right to an independent school supervision that can continuously evaluate the quality of school?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e445	The Representative for Wage has made the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e450	In the State Council's presentation and studies we've been given in the last few days, we see that the Norwegian school is very good in many ways and tolerates comparison with all other school systems. But what we have to discuss is how we're going to move on to make it even better, and to get even closer to the school we all want. Then I think with respect to report that what you see from both Inge Wage now and previous speakers from the opposition is that they're hanging out in the discussion around the private schools. We're being criticized for having a very hard relationship with private schools, that it's just 2 pst. Which goes there, and it can't be that important. But then it's a little disappointing that the Inge Wage hangs in, is exactly the 2 pst. What he spends his time on is just the 2 pst. and the difference in policy there. I really wish we could spend the time discussing what to do to get the public school – the common school – as well as possible. We may disagree on many things there, but I think there's a lot of grip that we could have taken together if we had chosen to have a more creative attitude to it. But I have to be allowed to ask a question about private schools, since Inge Wohnung spent so much time doing it. I must be allowed to ask concretely: does he think that it is better for diversity and integration that Christian children, Muslim children and humane children go to the same school, in the same class and meet each day, or does he think that it is better for integration and diversity that they go to different schools, in different classes and never meet? In my view, that's the answer. It is obvious that it is a great advantage for children from different walks of life, from different backgrounds, from different cultures and from different religions to meet often and thus learn to know each other, and to learn about each other and from each other. It's the opposite that's uniformity, separating the individual groups, letting them keep to themselves, so that only when they get into adult society will they meet people who are different. It's not helping to strengthen integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e461	The question of what comes out of different ways of organizing school is an empirical question. It can be the subject of research, and there are a lot of research on it, among other things. in our neighbouring country Denmark and Sweden, where children have had their own Muslim and Jewish schools for many years. The research reports that I have read all point to one conclusion, namely that integration is better in that way when you get up to your childhood. And the reason it's not hard to understand, it's because parents feel more secure when their choices are respected and not overcome by a political decision-making system. It creates greater security for both parents and children. When I spent some time in my post on this, it is because, in my opinion, the Council of State went even higher than the Workers' Party has done in many years, precisely in declaring a basically justified war on the principle of free school in Norway. It's ideologically an unusually important debate. And for the majority in the United Kingdom, it was so late that in December last year the Workers' Party's desire to restrict access to make use of the parental right was not accepted. I have to say, with reference to a specific matter which has been dealt with earlier in today's debate, that I fully agree with the representative Lyngstad that the Department's reformation of the approval of the private school in Songdalen is directly on the collision course with the decision of the majority of the population of 14 December last year. And I am amazed that the Secretary of State said in an interview on 16 May on the fatherland friend that this decision was a relatively simple decision. It amazes me that it is easy to ignore the bulk of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e470	I choose to look back at my introduction in the line of the representative's salary. I refer to what he said last year in the debate on the presentation that the then State Council Lilletun held in May. He said that he could unreservedly join the four following points: strengthening quality in and between all stages of the education system to promote innovation and development, skills and flexibility to shift more focus from the central level of governance to local action spaces to strengthen and concreteise the value perspective of the training’;» So that's how far we agree, right and center. But when we come to budgetary priorities, we see that there are differences – as mentioned earlier. And although the school leisure system is not a piece of the regular training system, it is an important part of the total leisure activity and learning environment of children. And it surprises me that the Right, which is very concerned with education and training, does not see that removing so much money from the school leisure system in particular will go beyond the parents who have a little less advice, because the local economy is so tight. I want to get Right's more principled view of this with general learning. We know that the leisure activity of children is very crucial for learning, and therefore I have allowed myself to ask this question, even if it was not affected by pay today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e493	The reason why this was not affected by me today is that it was also not affected by the Minister of Education in his educational policy statement, and that is the reason for the debate. But of course, the question of education policy is interesting, so I would like to respond to the challenge of the representative of Tingelstad. When the Right has proposed budget proposals in the way we have done in recent years, it is not because we see something wrong with the SFO, or that we want the offer to be stepped down. It is simply because, in view of the need to prioritise — and the need is becoming increasingly urgent in education policy too — we are doing the fundamental things first, it has come to the conclusion that it is irresponsible to spend so much money centrally on maintaining a leisure offer at the expense of children’s schooling, to put it a little at the head. We are of the opinion that school and education policy is, after all, about the primary task of the school, which is to provide the best possible learning provision for children and young people. And the social needs of children, and not least the social needs of their parents – because that is as much the motivation for the SFO as the children’s needs – must give way to the primary objectives. That's a priority right there is going to hold on. And this development of quality in school is, of course, also when it comes to the problem, a matter of prioritization of resources, and of what one considers to be most important, and what has to be done first. In our view, it is reasonable that a greater proportion of the leisure provision is covered financially by municipalities, partly by parental payments – not by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e500	No more lines have been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e503	Knowledge is the basis for all developments. But if knowledge is not used wisely, it has no meaning. This must be the bearer of all learning and knowledge dissemination. The Minister of Education wants a fresh school, and the presentation was fresh in form. I hope now that Giske is able to get fresh money for the education sector. When Giske attaches such importance to the efforts of the Workers' Party for the school reforms, he must at the same time have registered the criticism of the strong central orientation that marked reform 94 and L97. It was just this center government with Lilletun in the head took hold and did something with it. We stressed that the dialogue with the teachers and the local action room had to be put into effect much more than the previous working party regimes had to. Some actually use the term ‘paradigm shift’ about the Lilletun period in the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. Can we hope that Giske will follow this path when he also calls for better use of the space for action and will give more freedom to the schools? The school needs to become more flexible, says State Council Giske. I fully support that view. ‘In particular in secondary school it is necessary to think differently’, the Council of State continues. And that's all he said about youth! To my surprise, I see that the government in the revised national budget is worth 14 million. kr as granted by the Stortinget for the purpose of testing alternative splits at the level of youth. What kind of signal does it give? I actually expected concrete proposals from the new Council of State. I refer you to the proposal for the Roman Numeral Decision, V, the Inner East. S. No 120, where the Labour Party as the only party during the treatment voted against the fact that each school should have greater freedom to organise the work and to dispose of working time for, among other things. giving more space to the creativity of the individual teacher. I am therefore not so sure of the real will of the Workers' Party to make the changes that the Council of State is calling for in its presentation. The evaluation of reform 94 showed that structural changes had come into place, but that changes in the learning processes themselves had been achieved in the near future. This is why there is a great deal of commitment to continuing training for teachers. The central government presented several proposals for greater freedom of action and more flexible courses of education for higher education, followed by the Stortinget. There is still a lot to be done before school-business interaction can be said to be satisfactory. In particular, training contracts for young people with partial competence must be carried out in a few stages. I also remind you that the Stortinget has requested that efforts be made to share the counselling service in professional advice and more PP advice. It is positive that quality is strongly emphasised by the Council of State. The centre party is in favour of school-based assessment as a foundation for quality development. Assessment shall be a natural part of the learning process itself. Tempo-differentiated training adapted to individual pupils and self-assessment must be central. Students, teachers and supervisors have a joint responsibility for the evaluation in both the professional and social fields. The centre party is pleased that the strategy laid down in the quality notification, St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99, was endorsed by a majority, and I expect the Council of State to follow up on this. In particular, the new development centre will have an important role to play in this area. State councils also paid great attention to quality assurance in higher education. In the program of the Centre Party, we have formulated it as follows: ‘Norway must have a high quality and dynamic offer in higher education.’ The Committee has focused on the quality of higher education in several positions. The Council of State therefore has strong support in this area. The centre party wants a strong public school, and we want it to be an integral part of each community. But we're concerned that the tight local economy could threaten this goal by putting schools down. The Prime Minister promised more money to the municipalities, as former municipal minister Odd Roger Enoksen did. Therefore, the Centre Party has high expectations of the Community economicproposition. Guess you'll have an intensive and effective school. In isolation, I agree. But I'm not sure what that really means. Ask a teacher, they answer that school day is very stressful. I want to challenge the Council of State and ask him if he is willing to look into what can be done with this. Is it certain that the goal-management principle, over which the new curricula are built, is the best? We know that this requires a great deal of back-to-back reporting and filling out the form. The centre party therefore wants to free up more time for teachers to be with the students in the learning process. Does the new Council of State want to be involved and evaluate it more carefully?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e533	The representative Tingelstad addressed several specific issues that we need to work on further. I perceived her as very constructive in her post. The leaders of the Centre Party have also pointed out in recent years that the best policy solution for achieving a fairer distribution lies at the intersection of the Centre and the Workers' Party. I agree that the Workers' Party and Centre have a lot in common, and we have also agreed on many educational reforms. But in the time when the central parties have been in government, there has been a development in the center that has worried me. I experience that the central parties when they were united in government, have increasingly come across criticism of the Workers' Party together with the Right. They've criticized our common school. In that period of time, they have, as many people have been involved, among other things. a much more liberal policy vis-à-vis private schools. While appropriations for public schools must be kept up against other efforts both in the state budget and in the municipal sector, such as care for the elderly, hospitalization, transportation and culture, we have a private school law that allows private schools to automatically receive government funding. We are now spending over $1 billion on private schools in Norway. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Tingelstad: does the representative of Tingelstad see this as a problematic development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e540	I was at Stortinget in the period 1993-97 – it was not Synnøve Konglevoll. If she had been, she would probably have noticed that although the Centre Party and the Workers' Party were united in many school policy issues, we were also critical of a part of the policy that the Workers' Party was implementing, among other things. with the help of the Right. We did not want to introduce, among other things. 6-year-old reform. So it's not like we've been very much in agreement with the Workers' Party all along before, and now all of a sudden we agree with other parties. It's not like that. We follow our policies, which we have defined in our party programme. We have had a commitment in a tripartite cooperation through the Waksenå Declaration, and we have done so. It says we support the Private School Act. There has been no proposal for changes to the one we have found to support. The representative Konglevoll says there is a more liberal policy in the private school sector. If that's the case, I'll be observant. It is the Ministry which is to practise the Private School Act, and it is the Ministry's mandate to do so. We have already heard in the debate that there has been somewhat different use of discretion from the previous to the current Council of State, and at least it is not my and Stortingen's mandate to go in and do something about it – in case the Private School Act is changed. But I agree with the Workers' Party that if we have a strong tendency for private schools to be hindered by public schools – if they really are – then we need to take a closer look at this. But I've gone out and I've said to the media and I think about it, that then we have to look at financial compensation for the municipalities that might lose subsidies in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e547	Now it was not possible for me to get a clear answer from the representative Arne Lyngstad on how the Christian People's Party came to deal with the two proposals of the Progress Party today. These proposals are quite obviously intended to reintroduce the policy of the central government in relation to private schools. Since the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left have announced that they still have close cooperation, it is natural to ask the question of the second largest party in this constellation. My question to the representative of Tingelstad is therefore: does the Central Party want a reintroduction of the political line that the central government led with regard to private schools, or has the tail been strung between legs and changed policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e552	We have a division of labour between big business and government. I respect that. Not all parties have equal respect for that. I remember the big business of the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, among others. forefected and carried out in the case of IT Fornebu. It does not want the Central Party to follow up, we want the various bodies to follow the mandates they have received. That is why I think the proposals that are now before me are very ‘regent’, so to speak. I've looked at them a little bit, but I'm going to study them carefully. It is not natural for us to go in and vote for such proposals that really require detailed knowledge, especially one, in a procedure that I do not have any prerequisites for entering into today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e557	I have a great deal of understanding of the view of the role-sharing between bulking and government that the representative Tingelstad outlined in his recent answers. However, there is a kinky problem in this discussion about a change of practice without changing legislation. The Council of State has repeatedly announced a change of practice, while he has said that he does not want to make proposals for legislative changes. In the response given by the Ministry to the local government of Songdalen on 15 May of this year, it is stated that the Ministry ‘considers that the administration has the opportunity to change past practices from a given time’. It must be read that the administration in this case means the political leadership if there is a political leadership that gives signals other than that earlier. As a general point of view, it may be sustainable, but in this case, the Workers' Party has promoted a Document No as late as last autumn. 8-proposals in this room where you just wanted to ask the Grandfather to join another form of discretionary exercise. This was rejected by the majority of the population, but then you're just adding that discretionary exercise to basically. It seems to me to be quite out of the question of the distribution of roles between government and magnification. My question to the representative Tingelstad goes on with what the majority said in the committee position last autumn, and on which the centre party was also: ‘The majority highlight parental rights as a current principle irrespective of the size of the municipality and do not want large parts of the country to be cut off from State aid under the private school law. The majority still want an approval practice that does not discriminate between cities and countries. There must be very serious arguments to derogate from this general principle.» Is this still the opinion of the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e571	This is not a simple matter – I tried to say that instead as well. We know from similar things that e.g. The local authority has expressed its opinion and is of the opinion of one and the other. But it is difficult to go into this specific matter and answer whether we mean something or not, at least from my point of view. I agree with the decision I made before Christmas, of course I do. Now, however, I have, later on, looked at what one of the documents had before the odelsting decision, in connection with the preparation of the law, and it was said that there was room for understanding. I have recorded that the Stortinget, the committee in its time, later tightened it up somewhat. That's the reason I've been using when I've said that I think you can exercise something more beautiful than it's been done before. I'm asking for understanding that I need to put myself better into this on the principle level, but I think the most correct thing is that one goes in and looks at the law if one is to start changing this. Of course, we are on the parental right, as we have said in the Adultås Declaration that we do. We also stated in our programme that we believe that private schools have their merits as a complement to public schools. But I repeat, we're a little bit on guard if there's a strong growth that could threaten public school. My hope is that we get the public school so good that it won't be so interesting to start private schools. Nevertheless, the right of parent is at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e586	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e589	School is more difficult to reform than the Catholic Church. It was a German Catholic priest who said this some time ago. I assume that the starting point was experience from Germany. And I'm not going to say that I have an in-depth knowledge of the Catholic Church, but as the universal and worldwide church it is, it's in the nature of the matter that it's reasonably conservative and probably difficult to change as well. On the other hand, what I know a lot about is the Norwegian school. Over the past 10 years, primary and secondary schools have undergone extensive structural and organisational changes. Despite this, today's school is a result of the industrial community. The hierarchical way in which it is organised is based on the way in which working life was organised in the industrial community. The way in which vocational training is organised in higher education is a result of the way in which the industrial community defines different disciplines. The school has been educated — and continues to train — for a lifelong job, provided that relatively small changes have been made in working methods and technology. The division of the theoretical disciplines was based on the academic tradition of the university, with clear and well-defined distinctions between the different disciplines. And still, most of the training is organized in work sessions in 45 minutes. During a working day, students can work on six different subjects. However, let me stress that there is a development and a lot of excitement in school, both primary and secondary, but still the main picture is clear: traditional training is still being conducted. Young people who are currently being trained in school must enter a working life characterised by: Firstly, the traditional hierarchical structure will no longer dominate the labour market. The work will be more project-based, where a main requirement for employees becomes flexibility and is able to work across traditional disciplines. The labour market will be democratised with greater responsibility for the individual. Secondly, the subject matter will change content at a higher rate than before. Technological developments will reverse past occupations and work processes. Thirdly, one has to change jobs more often than before, both because each individual wants to do so, and also because jobs will come and go at a higher pace than in the traditional industrial community. Fourthly, education/training needs to be seen more fully in a lifelong perspective. Adults will demand competence throughout their careers and probably also as pensioners. These are some of the challenges for the school and education sectors, and one has to give some answers to them. If the school is to meet the needs of adults, we can't have a school where everyone starts at the same time. We cannot expect that all adults who need training are ready to start at the same time, i.e. on 20 August, for it was not on 20 August the adult needed a course, for training, but on 20 February, because it was the date on which the workplace was closed. This means that you have to organise the training so that you take in students throughout the year. And this must have consequences for both the organisation of the school day and the various subjects. Work must be divided into themes in a completely different way. The façade must be divided into modules which are not interdependent in the same way as today. In one of our proposals, we therefore want a test scheme for children to start school on the day they reach the age of six. And what's the point of that? Well, one of the purposes of that is to break down some of the structures and the traditional way of thinking about it. If you do that, the school has to reorganize, it has to change its business, because you have to take into account when the different students get into school. This would be a first attempt and an important experience that we hope will have consequences for the whole school, including high school, where one has to put about their arrangements, their way of organizing education, their way of organizing a profession, their way of providing training. I'm promoting our four proposals. The first concerns organisational changes. We're also asking for a big message where we're getting collective experience, so we can get a thorough discussion about the trials going on in school, and the development experiences we have from school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e617	The representative Rikvam has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e622	I do not know how to comment on the proposal of the representative, without being charged with inappropriate behaviour in this room, but I will try. Some time ago, I was also in conversation with groups of different vocational educators. They were all concerned with distinguishing between proposing more and more organisational measures and coming up with qualitative measures in the area of action that is well known between teacher and student. One of the present explained a bit of laughter that there seems to be a trend among people with less knowledge of school to think that you can organize yourself away from decay and negative trends. I see the representative of the Council of State as a spring bouquet of little concrete desires for the future, and have a concrete question: is it possible to make the work of the Council of State any easier by being precise in the formulation of proposals for changes, so that we avoid years of delays based on vagueness and unspecified manufacturing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e631	SV has tried to make four reasonable concrete proposals, which I also expected the Progress Party to get hold of. The first proposal concerns some organisational changes, reasonably concrete. One indent goes on an age mix; we also want an age mix in fully divided schools. That means that different class steps are going to go together, just because they're going to be able to learn from each other. We have good experience with that. It's a fairly concrete attempt to develop the school further. The third indent goes on what I mentioned with the six-year-olds, that they should not start school at the same time. It's not natural that everyone starts work the same day anyway. It's not like this in the world of work. Those who work in a group don't start at exactly the same time and work and end at the same time, but people come into groups at different times, learn to adapt and evolve. So should school be, and that's what we're suggesting for the six-year-olds, that a six-year-old starts school at the moment he's six years old. Now we weren't so happy about the 6-year reform, so actually it would be seven years if we had got what we wanted. But it's a little uninteresting now, the point is that a starting school on the day of one's birthday. It will have some consequences for the educational system in school, and that's what we're working on. There must be some consequences for the way in which training is organised. It's pretty concrete and it's okay. Our next proposal is that we want a big message about the experiences we have with the trials that are going on in school today, and the changes that are taking place, so that there is information about what is going on, and so that we can have an overall debate on this and discuss whether these are good attempts. The third proposal is earmarked for stimulating attempts, and the fourth is simply about getting a proposal for a separate law. I thank you for giving me the opportunity to go through this, that the representative gave me that opportunity, but it should be reasonably easy to understand also for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e644	The representative Reikvam opened up saying that the school is difficult to reform, and I think he has an important point in that there is some inertia in the system. I'm glad that school development was the focus of his articles. This is a debate that is both important and forward-looking. I think we all agree that we need more attempts to reorganize and work at school. There's a lot of good happening in Norwegian school, and a lot of schools are already in good shape. The Christian People's Party's approach to school development has been that this development must come from below. This is why it is so important to give teachers and school managers confidence and space to try out new approaches in school everyday life. It is therefore important to stimulate these groups into active school development. That was also the reason why the Christian People's Party took the initiative for a general experimental paragraph in the Training Act. And a lot of what the representative Rikvam is now proposing and addressing in his proposals is already going on around the schools. Just because we've been busy getting initiatives from below, it's kind of weird for me that we, like the central team, are going to take initiatives and try to control school development. It's an approximation that I think is a little bit wrong. But it's important that we give positive signals that we want school development. In the proposal for a revised national budget, the Labour Party and the State Council propose to postpone the experiment of new allocation of resources to the school, which had been included in the budget for this year. What are the signals that the representative, Mr Rikvam, thinks such a proposal is making, and does he agree with such a postponement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e653	Let me do the last one first. I think it's a very bad suggestion to cut out that allocation – not because it probably means so much, because the allocation was basically too small, but because it's a bad signal to give out to School Norway, Education Norway, in the situation we're in. I sincerely hope that it will not be adopted, but that we will maintain that allocation, so that the carrot to try out that type of arrangement remains there. It's an important signal to give. I also agree that initiatives, new attempts, should come from below. They're usually the best. The meaning of these proposals is not to kind of push something they don't want, but it's to make them want it, and that as a big deal, we give some signals about what kind of development we want. It has been suggested that the Stortinget asks the Government to take the initiative to try to do this, but if the school does not want to, if the municipalities and county councils that run the schools do not want to try out the kind of arrangements, we cannot push them anywhere. The point is to give some leadership and give some signals. As for what's going on in economics, using earmarked funds, using carrots to get things going, it's in one of our proposals, and I hope you can agree on that. If you want to get to school development, you have to both give some signals and add some carrots. Every time we promote proposals of this kind, we get to know that this is going on, this is working, this is unnecessary. But at least you have to be able to support our proposal where we are asking for an overview of what is going on, so that we can get a discussion on that basis. It is one of the proposals – we ask the Ministry to provide the Stortinget with an overview of the main organisational and pedagogical efforts, so that we can get a proper and thorough debate on what we want, whether that is the way we want to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e662	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e665	The Council of State statement comes to the end of a six-month period with many exciting contributions to the Norwegian education debate. The most recent contribution is the Mjøs Committee’s recommendation on the future of higher education in Norway. Although I disagree with some of the proposals, such as the governance of academic institutions as state enterprises, the main issue of the Mjøs Committee is the same as in the Education Policy of the Left, and as valid at all levels of school — that is. less emphasis on state detail management, more emphasis on individual school autonomy, professional pride and creativity, and increased interaction between school and society. After hearing the Council of State's presentation, I am still uncertain how deeply the recognition of these principles permeates the new government. Maybe it's when everything comes to traditional social-democratic system thinking and central guidance that's going to create Giske's fresh school. The Minister of Education stressed the importance of giving everyone the opportunity to participate in the knowledge society. That's a very central point. If we just focus on cultivating the best minds and forgetting the breadth, we won't succeed either in creating a good society for the individual or in winning the knowledge economy. It also applies in the field of higher education and research. These academic environments are the foundation of the knowledge society. This foundation must be stable and solid in the form of research environments that allow the development of knowledge over a broad register, both through basic research that does not immediately exceed the range of figures in a cost-benefit analysis, and in areas of direct relevance for future business and value creation. The knowledge society shall not only have researchers who do what they want! Research has a democratic and cultural basis which is at least as important in the years to come as it has been in the emergence of our pluralistic, liberal democracy. And in the light of this, I will report significant concerns about the statements made in the revised national budget in connection with the Council of Technology and the signals on changing terms of reference and composition. This means putting pressure on the follow-up to the research communication, in the form of rapid and strong escalation of society’s overall research effort. It also means that a substantial part of the research funding must be free, in the form of increased basic appropriations. I don't think the government so far has shown signs of meeting the self-created expectations in this area, among other things. as expressed in the revised national budget. Governments emphasise the importance of freedom of choice and diversity in education policy. I think it is closely related to making it locally possible to engage in school content. A good interaction between school and community, with motivated teachers as drivers, is likely to yield greater benefits than most ministerial investigations. Such a course impelled the previous government, and this must not stop. Each school must be given the freedom to develop, and the teacher must be given confidence as a creative educator, a knowledge provider and a secure contact with adults. The frustration of not having this trust, but just being a random piece in a well-smelled school bureaucracy, I know many teachers feel on their bodies every single day. If we can't straighten out the teacher's role and take care of those who have the school as their place of work, all other school reforms are of little value. Of course, it's about salary, but it's also about a lot of other things. Once again, if it is to be attractive to choose the teaching profession, the school must provide the opportunity to be a personal developer of the individual teacher and to reward the person who thinks new and untraditional. In that context, I'm worried about the 14-million-dollar cut. kr taken in the context of measures to strengthen the upper secondary education system. And I also want to voice concerns about the signals that we get from different teams about a falling respect for the importance of real science in school, and that finally report with such strength that we almost have to ask the question whether it is understood in practice that also real science represents part of general education at all stages of our schoolwork. The teaching role was mildly said not the dominant theme of the presentation. I hope this is not a sign that the Workers' Party is now more concerned with teachers than they were in opposition in March when the Stortinget dealt with the teacher's recruitment message. Finally, I want to come up with a perspective that means a lot here in the country's capital, where you have up to 30 pst in primary school. foreign language pupils. Is our schoolwork well enough equipped to address integration issues? For example, do we have: Takes sufficient account of the need for Oslo School to perform some tasks which are exceptional on a national scale and which would have ring-effects throughout the country if they did not succeed? I've been to many schools in Oslo for the past few weeks, and I've seen excellent examples of such integration succeed, but we also have painful experiences on the contrary, and I also know them. This perspective must also be taken with us if the knowledge society is to serve social and democratic development and not become a society that creates new class divisions. It surprises me, through different political roles, to see how short you are, for example. have been able to recruit general teachers with a linguistic minority background into normal school. We've been good at bringing out native language teachers, but the general teachers are not clear. I'm almost curious about it: there's almost been more to recruit immigrants with skills and background in the police profession from the Norwegian police department than what I think has been done to recruit general teachers as role figures for the Norwegian normal general school, which is so important for any social development and for the common school that the Council of State and I actually have as a basic value. On this basis, I would like to address the proposal which has been distributed: ‘It is recommended that the Government make an overall assessment of the integration challenges in Oslo School, and present this to the Stortinget as its own case.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e694	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e699	I would first like to say how pleased I am with the proposal that Mr Dørum has been promoting here today. It shows great willingness to enter into new business areas as well. On the other hand, I can be a little concerned when it comes to proposing problems that have already been well-lit. Well, Norway has high incomes, but the Storting should not lose credibility by proposing to investigate things that have already been highlighted in several research reports over time. For the representative’s briefing, I would recommend an evaluation of Oslo Municipality’s special education, including: The question of integration is a wide range of professional references. The title of this is ‘Ideals and realities’, NOVA Report 20:1998, by Terje Overland and Thomas Nordahl. For further follow-up, I can then recommend the report called «Is it just the student?» by Thomas Nordahl. But it's of a more general nature. The common denominator for both is the lack of consistency between law and legislation and school practice. I am also aware that the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research under the Danish Council of State, introduced an action on school mediation in 1995. It may be of interest to ask the representative of Dørum, as former Minister of Justice, whether this has provided the school with competence in, among others. integration issues. Wasn't it already before the government change initiated an evaluation of the school mediation project?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e711	The representative, Evje, has totally missed my lead with my proposal. The point of the proposal was not to catalog existing research knowledge, but to ask for a political assessment and a political initiative. Because it's just pressure that creates change. From many aspects of my life, including: social policy, I guess I'm familiar with drawers of tons of investigations, and I know the difference between investigations and political action. So when I promote the proposal, it's based on my observation of the number of investigations on the subject I've addressed, and the insight I have into what's going on. I believe that such attention from the country's political leadership will inspire ordinary teachers who are in the job, because many of them are doing just admirable work. But many of these teachers also experience that the lack of focus leads to their standing alone. A lot of people can tell you about that. But let us not do it so that our ability to look up research reports – for them there are many of them – or look up the Internet for that matter, will replace political pressure and ability to think independently politically. It is only by putting things on a political agenda that changes are being created – at least the Council of State, Giske and I, share that it is in the way of creating political change, both as the representative of big business and in other roles. I guess the representative Evje agrees with me on that. Then I thank you for all the case information that was given in the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e721	You can read in the left's pop-up options: ‘All pupils, both resource-intensive and vulnerable, must be given the opportunity to go to school where they can develop their skills.’ This is Right entirely in agreement, even though we might not like to distinguish between resource-intensive and resource-depleted elephants in the same way that the Left likes. On the right, it looks like most people have resources in some area; they have areas where they are resource-intensive. But the point is that one has to be able to develop also these sides, not just those that are weak. I think the Left and Right lines are more in line here than the Left and the Working parties. Similarly, Left says: ‘School must give greater emphasis to individual differences.’ There's also a good word to the right of a right-hand man. Left goes for free schooling, Left goes for private schooling and gives the necessary skills. Neither in these areas is the Workers' Party so clearly in line with the Left and Right points. The left has also decided that they will keep their grades from the youth stage. And that's if you don't get in a fight, so pretty close, contrary to what the Labour Party has expressed in several cases. In addition, when the representative Dørum in his speech today expressed uncertainty about the contents of the Council of State's rhetoric and at the same time was concerned about the lack of real-time investment – which Right has pointed to many times – I thought it should be interesting for the representative Dørum and his party to see a little different ways and to be with and build up a broad alternative to what the representative Dørum characterized as a social-democratic system – and I do not see it as a tribute from the representative. I want comments from the Left and Door in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e741	The representative, Mr Løvik, has made a perfectly correct quotation from the programme of the Left. He is also quite right in saying that it was the term ‘social democracy’ that I came to grips with, not the term ‘social’. I weighed it quite heavily in my post. I would like to point to my post in such a way that it also becomes a challenge to the Right. You can see my post as a settlement with the prevailing ideology, where socio-economic thinking to those degrees permeates all the ways of working on it, that in the end, whether you're a lawyer, a vocational school teacher, a teacher or whatever, you're going to sound like an economist. To meet this, you have to re-establish respect for subjects, the pride of subjects, you have to re-establish respect for people's skills. I think it's alarming, after meeting many people who work at school, that it's not like that. When it comes to the possibility of a skilled teacher to get the best in people, I myself have gone to a class at a time when it was called primary school, where I registered very many years later that you got 50 pst. of the class to take it as then called artium, at a time when the normal was 5 pst. The second point in my article is that if respect for the teacher is not restored – that means not only the teacher as a person to be rewarded and who is to be proud of his knowledge, but also the possibility of security and discipline in a normal educational situation – we will not succeed. I think it's very important to succeed in this. And my crucial point: we can't think of it like this. about our academic institutions that we consider them a state-owned company. We have to realize that society is made up of different institutions, the market in business, where it is unsurpassed, home and school. I was on a classic left-wing basis. But that Left and Right meet a lot of places, just like the Left and Workers' Party do, is part of Norwegian school history, and it's going to continue to be like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e752	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e755	It's of its own one should have it, it's called in an old mouth. And so it has to be. It is we who are friends of the public high school, who must be the foremost to be critical and to develop it further. I have announced that I will defend the Norwegian school model. That doesn't mean I'm going to wall it in among high walls, on the contrary. The best defense of the common school is to make sure that it is constantly changing and improving, that it never stagnates and grows in old patterns in the past way of doing things. I am aware that it is not ideology and ideological debate that will win the fight for the future school, but it is through concrete reforms that ensure that the public education system provides services that people are satisfied with. Quality is the basic. Parents who send their children to school and the school leisure system are entitled to quality. Pupils who are required to provide a lifelong basis are entitled to quality. Students who borrow large amounts demand quality. Workers who need to re-fill knowledge in order to continue their working life depend on quality. And teachers and everyone else who is to disseminate knowledge depend on the quality of training, equipment and materials. The OECD has just presented its 'Education at a Glance' report on primary and secondary education. There we can read that we are well located in Norway. But we can get better. To improve, we need good indicators on how to develop the school. We need to have a better measuring instrument. We already have something. When we deliver material to international surveys, we use such indicators. But I want to start a systematic and intensive effort to produce proper indicators. Norms, as we already have, may refer to questionnaires and evaluation forms; they may be research projects – not, as some people were concerned with here in the past, more forms and bureaucracy. We have to do it in a simple and systematic way, so that we can get good indicators of how we stand. The representative Lyngstad expressed some concern that indicators could be traced to uniformity. I see the problem, and it has to be avoided. It's not like a one-sided school is a better quality school. But I'm in favour of one uniformity, and it's a uniformity towards stronger basic quality in all schools. We have to be careful to make schools the same. There are many paths to the goal. In today's curriculum, there is great room for local and individual customization. My goal is to attract all those pedagogues who have good ideas and bold plans and that there should be room for them in primary school. That is why I basically agree with many of the proposals that SV has made. There is a lot of good experimental work to be done. But I also agree with what was emphasised here, that much of the development and experimentation to be conducted must come from below. I think there's a basic consensus between the Workers' Party and the Centre in the view of the development of the school. We will continue the effort contained in the school package with trials and development. In view of flexibility rather than uniformity in strict knowledge definitions, in view of the integration of the weakest students, in view of the evaluation and in view of a public common school, I think we have a lot in common. I have said several times that I fear a through-commercialization of education. In the last few days, we've seen headlines about advertising in school, about more and more elements of commercialization. It is important to ensure that the content of education itself is not shaped by special interests. Advertising that appears to be advertising is something we can deal with and build up a defense against. It becomes much more complicated when, for example: oil companies sponsor great educational materials where their activities are produced as environmentally friendly. But at the same time, schools should have contact with society around them, including business. I want to start a work to ensure that the schools don't become an arena of massive influence from special interests with the means to sponsor great schemes, and that we can get an advertising-free school, while at the same time ensuring that the school in everyday life has contact with the community around it. Finally, I am pleased with what the Special Representative, Mr Lyngstad, stressed that we should also bet on development in other countries and bet on the poor in education. I myself was in Zambia last week and I signed an agreement with Zambia on cooperation in developing their primary school, and I'm glad that we're getting support for that work here in Stortinget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e778	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e781	State Council Lilletun had in his time an expression that I was not particularly pleased with. He said that the road gets there while we go. I'm of the principal opinion that I want to know where to go, not come to some more or less random starting point. As for the shy interpretations of real competences and the views of the Council of State Giske on the right parties in this context, I wonder about the use of the majority form. I assume that the Council of State has intervened in the position where the issue of real competence was dealt with, as well as proposals and decisions in this regard. What is the strategy proposed by the Council of State to ensure that the majority behind the decision on the introduction of real competences and the self-value of these competences also have the opportunity to form a majority for the further work and development of laws, regulations and not least the predictable practice of the quality determination of this very important amount of knowledge across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e788	I am aware of the cooperative configurations that have been in Stortingen with regard to the individual decisions on real competence, and I am pleased that the majority was as it was. I also share the representative's somewhat critical attitude to the expression 'the road is going'. It's once been rewritten as "the plane becomes when you fly" and it says a little bit that it may not always be so unproblematic. I agree that there must be a clear objective where you go. And we have more objectives with the reform of competences, with the inclusion of the concept of ‘real competence’. One is that the individual, the individual, should be valued and given a formal paper on the competence that he or she actually possesses. It also means that we get a greater intensity in education because people don't have to retake things you actually already have inboard. As a result, skilled labour is created more quickly in the workplace. This also leads to a better use of the overall competence and knowledge of our society and the saving of resources by educational institutions. I am pleased that the Progress Party has supported some of the Workers' Party's views on issues relating to the reform of competences, but I am convinced that there is a very broad majority in the UK that will support the work we will have in the future to achieve a proper reform of competences and a lifelong learning in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e799	I think it was an interesting statement the council gave to the Storting, and many of his analyses are correct. Some of the priorities also indicate the willingness to continue the thinking of the Bondevik government, with one important exception. I am also pleased with the signals that the Council of State now included in its article on commercialisation in school. I fully agree with the concerns that he expressed, and I would like to point out that there is already a reduced public body to look at the advertising press on children. I think it's important that the school is also aware of what's on the market, and what the business here is trying to get the school involved. What I missed in the presentation was a clearer priority of high school. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Council of State in the revised national budget will postpone the experiment of new resource allocation in school. The Christian People's Party likes to cooperate with the Workers' Party and other parties who want to bet and do something about high school. Like the representative Løvik, I think it is interesting to see the difference between the Workers' Party in opposition and in government. Before Christmas it was very important for the Workers' Party to get a restoration of the Urbygden at the University of Oslo. The appropriations for this are now also deleted from the revised national budget. And in February, the Workers' Party promoted proposals for submission of studies from the State Education Offices in the counties on the municipal resource use in the school. It was adopted, but we did not hear anything about it and the issues surrounding this from the Council of State guess. According to the media, the surveys showed that municipalities use less in school now than before. Can the Council of State confirm that there is now a shift in the resources of municipalities away from school, and what will the Council of State do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e808	Of course, there is no education minister's or perhaps no government council's fairest task to cut into its own budgets, but when we came to the government offices and took responsibility for the implementation of the budget as the centre and the Workers' Party were united last year, we got on the table a lot of expenditure for which there was no funding in the budget. And if we were to be able to keep the tightness that the centre and the Workers' Party agreed on last year – and we both know what happens in terms of interest rate increases and difficulties for most people if we can't keep that tightness – it was also necessary to look at what we could postpone on the education budget later. That's the background that unfortunately there wasn't room for all the things that were in the budget. But there was actually also room for some new things, among other things. We got 40 million. additional to the introduction of a statutory right to secondary education for all adults. So the education page as a whole didn't come out badly of the government's treatment of revised, and I hope that's also the case in Stortinget. I fully agree with the representative Lyngstad that youth needs extra attention. Much attention has been paid to the secondary school through Reform 94 and to the early childhood through Reform 97. Now it's the turn of youth, and there you might have some of the biggest challenges, but also some of the greatest opportunities. I think the possibility of getting more responsibility for your own learning, reforms in relation to your school life, in relation to class and class division, etc. is very big in childhood, and I think it can trigger a lot of creativity, creativity and intensity in primary school. It is also important that municipalities make use of their resources wisely. What we really want to do about it is to see if we can have fewer earmarked transfers to the municipalities, greater local self-government and greater local authority even over how they use their funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e817	Governments consistently use the new term ‘common school’. I have noticed that part of the Workers' Party's speakers in the debate is having a little more trouble controlling their tongue correctly at this point, but I assume that you will manage that exercise. But what I see as a completely open question is what this change of title really means, or, a little bit more precise, if it means anything at all, if it involves some changed understanding of the school policy on the part of the Workers' Party. To make it a little more concrete: Before the Council of State took over, we heard repeatedly from the Workers' Party in this Chamber that the concept of unit school was to be extended, so that it would include both primary and secondary education. What about the new concept of ‘common school’? How much does it have in the language of the Councils? I would like an answer to that question. The Council of State did not comment on any of the proposals put forward in the debate, and I assume that he will come back to it later. But I would like to have the State Council's comment on the one proposal for dealing with the Berg Committee's position, whether his statement is such as to understand that he does not intend to follow up this matter as a matter of his own, but intends to wait until the settings of the Mjøs Committee and the Aamott Committee can also be presented to the Stortinget. So finally, a concrete question. As regards the handling of applications for approval of private schools, the Council of State will use the understanding adopted by the majority of the population in December last year or will use the understanding set out in Document No. The 8th proposal by Grete Knudsen and Thorbjørn Jagland, which was rejected by Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e829	I think most people in the Workers' Party are going to have very small problems with this term. It means a school where children with different religions, different social backgrounds, etc. can go together. This applies to both primary and secondary schools. We've been given a legal right to three-year high school that the right-wing party voted against, but that we got a majority for together with the center, and that ensures that in that sense one also has a common school. When I like the term 'common school' better than 'unitary school', it is because I think it is better to say that the general public school should also be a multiplicity school, having different solutions adapted to different local conditions and different individual needs of the individual student. As regards the question of the suspension of the Berg Committee, the situation is that the consultation period is 15 June. I am afraid that the time may be short to consider the hearing opinions properly and seriously and then bring the matter to Stortinget within the time limit set by the representative in his proposal. It is also important to see the position of the Berg Committee in conjunction with the settings of the Mjös Committee and the Aamodt Committee, precisely because the proposals of the Berg Committee intervene directly in both entry and shortening in relation to higher education and funding for education at the level proposed by the Berg Committee. That's why I said in my statement that I want to see it in context. If that means that we can get a proposal up to Stortinget before the big message about the Mjøs selection itself, I see it as very topical, but what time frame we can get on it is too soon to say here from the pulpit in the Stortinget now. So in relation to the practice of the private school law: My practice of the private school law will be such that it is within the intention of the law. But I believe that it is the discretion of the Council of State that must underlie the exercise of discretion, in the same way that it did for my predecessor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e840	First, I would like to say that I am pleased with Giske's statement that he is against sponsorship and advertising in school. That was comforting. An interview with the Norwegian Council of State at Skoleblad No. 13 starts as follows: ‘The difference between Jon Lilletun and Trond Giske as Minister of Education is that Giske believes he will be more reformative and more effective.’ [[KrF]] [[Ap]] Nothing less. After reform 94, reform 97 and soon the reform of competences is in place, I think it is important to consolidate the position, as it is called, not in the sense that school development should stop or stagger, but that it is just more depression than it has now been, that more time is given to teachers and schools for this. Giske goes on to say in the interview: ‘Lilletun had too many balls in the air at the same time. I will take them down and act." So he uses as an example that the action space in the curriculum has to be better used. What's new in that? If there's something Lilletun is remembered for, then it's just using the action space more. Hers was the one who gave this very tight frame, just ask the teachers. Then I threw a ball at Giske in my post instead. Does the State Council have any view on this with the target management principle? I am aware that it is a short time to answer that now, but a very small tip perhaps. Then, over the past two years in particular, the Ap-fraction has been very active in obtaining the work environment law for students, and Giske wrote on the Web in Dagbladet on 18 February that ‘we must get proper working environment rules for students as well’. To Norwegian Skoleblad nr. 13 he says, now as the Council of State: ‘Really, the rules are not so crucial, but the municipalities have the money to give students a real inner environment.’ I agree with the Council of State on that. So what's the reason why Giske has turned so upside down in these few weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e871	I don't think I'm quoted correctly when it's said that my predecessor had too many balls in the air, but I found that he had started a lot of balls that now had to be picked down. That is to this extent, I have to say, a great advantage for me. It is clear that when there is a final investigation by the Mjøs Committee and the Aamodt Committee, when we have a number of these basic documents, it is a very great advantage to take over as the Council of State, for this investigation has already been carried out. But I want to say that this is the next step, the design of concrete proposals and the implementation of changes in practice, which is crucial. So it's a privilege to be the one who, at least for the time being, sits and is responsible for it. As far as the target management principle is concerned, I think that is a good principle. I think we're going to set some goals for the school, and then you're going to give more customization opportunities locally in each municipality and maybe in each school. I share the concern of the representative of Tingelstad about the form field and the reporting area and the bureaucracy that we see not only around the target management, but also about some of the attempts that we are making. Sometimes you can wonder if application writing and reporting costs more than the few dollars that each school receives for specific trials. That's one thing I'd like to look at in more detail. At the end of the day, the municipality economy determines the quality of the school, also in terms of the working environment for each student. This does not mean that we should not have clear rules for it, and I have also said in the statement that I believe that this discussion must soon be over and come to concrete legislation that guarantees students a good working environment right. It's a paradox when we're going into lifelong learning, people are going to switch between a workplace where you've legalized the right to a proper work environment, and a school place where you don't have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e882	I am pleased that the Council of State agrees with the SV's four proposals. That means we're going a long way to get a majority in the course of the day, and I'm happy about that. So two or three questions -- I'll see what I get the time for. Some time ago, the Stortinget dealt with a report on recruitment to the teaching profession. According to VG today, the OECD has produced a statistics comparing teacher pay in the various OECD countries, and Norway is coming down quite a bit, at the bottom. Now I do not expect the Council of State to feel anything about salary in the middle of the negotiations – not so much at all. But one of my questions is: does he view this statistics, the fact that Norway is so low and so unwilling to look at the use of wages towards the teachers' groups, as a serious signal in relation to the possibility of recruiting, and that this itself is such a serious signal that it can also weaken recruitment in the longer term if it continues? The second question is one of what he said, namely that he was concerned about producing more indicators that can be used when comparing himself with other countries as to how Norwegian school really is, and there was mention of an extended use of standardized tests. There were new signals from the Workers' Party. There have been no more norms in the last few years. We know that to the extent that you use more standardized and centralised, standardized tests, it means more uniformity, and we get an even more unified school. It's in contrast to what he said about everything else, so it surprises me. I would like him to comment on it and elaborate something more on this with normal tests. So to the last question. This concerns the Technology Council, which was also Dørum's earlier today. It's an SV product. At least we have a part of the honor for it to be established, and it's going to be an independent advice, which is going to help get the social debate going. Does the Council of State agree that there is a need to change the mandate and change its composition and also to transfer it to another department?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e893	First for teacher's pay. It is true that the OECD report shows that Norwegian teachers are low compared to others in terms of wages. However, it also shows that Norwegian teachers are low in the number of teaching hours per person. years in relation to other teachers. I think there's a context here. Without having to go into concrete wage negotiations from the Parliamentary Chair, I could say that I would like to have a school where the teacher's working hours could be used more flexibly, as some schools have already tried. I have also previously said from Stortinget's pulpit that teacher pay is an important recruitment factor, and that also underlined the size of the handling of the recruitment message. So just cards to this with the Technology Council. It shall be transferred, as referred to by the representative, to another department. I've agreed to that. However, I agree with the representative that the role of the Council of Technology in relation to new technology must be maintained. If the Technology Council is going to have other tasks, we're going to get back to it, and it's up to another government council to design proposals for it. But that today's advisory role is respected, at least I will be concerned about. So to that with indicators. I don't think it's correctly quoted when the representative Rikham says we should have extended the use of standardized tests. But that we should also have it as a factor in the evaluation of the quality of Norwegian education, I am a strong supporter of it. I'm 100 pst. agree with those who say that standard tests only measure part of the concept of knowledge and that overfocusing on standard tests could result in uniformity. But concrete factual knowledge or ‘what knowledge’ used by the OECD as a formulation is also part of the concept of knowledge, and it measures norms in a good way, and I will be a supporter of using it in the evaluation of quality in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e902	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e905	Such statements as the basis for today’s debate can be seen in many ways. It also has today's debate to the fullest extent possible. The presentations are often general, and you can often choose to interpret positive things and opinions you share. I have to admit, I have a hard time doing this. To that extent, the presentation of the stasis wire was too marked by a festivities, with exercises of words without real content. The speech was self-esteem with regard to the Workers' Party's initiative on reforms in the school system. I'm not going to stick under a chair that there's been something good about the reforms that we've had, but there's no need to give the impression that everything is fine and great in Norwegian school. There are still major weaknesses and especially with regard to the results of education. We see clearly that Norwegian students make it bad compared to students in other countries, especially in relation to them it is natural to compare with them. We see major problems of violence, unrest and bullying in school – a theme that was almost absent in the presentation to the Council of State. We see drastic reductions in the recruitment of teachers. The list could be made very long. In the case of such major and major problems, changing names from one school to another does not help. A change of name does not change the actual conditions. I am calling for the concreteisation of the new profile of our school by the Council of State. Is there anything but a new thin layer of cosmetics he wants to provide? What is the alternative to the problems you see in school today? Is there more of the same medicine that we have tried for a number of years, or is there a need for profound reforms that are not based on 68-generation faulty thoughts? You might want to ask, what are the options of the Advance Party? The Norwegian School Progress Party model is presented in a number of contexts in this room. It is a school model that draws the best from the Norwegian school system and from school systems around the world, both from Sweden, Denmark, the United States, New Zealand, Germany, and perhaps especially from the United Kingdom, where I have to say that the Workers' Party and the Council of State Giske have a lot to learn from their sister party Labour. We want to replace today's framework grant for schools with one price per cent. student. It could also be called a school check, or, as the Mjøs Committee calls it, a voucher. We want to let the students and their parents, not circuit boards and state or municipal legislation, decide which schools the students are going to go to. We want to debureaucraticize the school by having the ministry prepare examinations and establish a curriculum for nuclear subjects, while there must be a great freedom for each school in the choice of teaching methods and teaching materials within the framework of the syllabus. We want to equalise all private and public schools in terms of public payments. They are to be given the same price and treated in the same way as in many other countries. We want to make public schools self-governed by governments made up of representatives of parents and employees at schools — perhaps also with other competent people, for example. from business. We want to hire schoolleaders on a yearly basis, pay teachers individually, based on their knowledge and effort, a system that will otherwise spur improvements in the teaching profession and new recruiting. To get hold of and hold the really good teachers, we have to pay well. Governments should note that this is a well-known principle in all other parts of society. We want to bet more on teachers' personal commitment and sense of responsibility. Teachers need to be less burdened with meetings and paperwork so that they can spend more time on students. We want students and parents to evaluate the teachers, disciplines, educational systems and working environment at school, etc. We will put in place concrete measures to create the necessary calm and order in classrooms, so that learning, which is the very central thing at school day, is to be put in the high seat. And it's obvious that this topic was absent in the Council of State's presentation. We also want a much stricter quality control of schools, including in particular: independent inspector schemes, as many other countries have started. The chairman of the Committee thought that she had heard a lot of this from the Progress Party before. And that's right, I have to admit it, but she'll hear it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e954	When I hear the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party in the pulpit here, I wish they could have received some training in how people learn, because it's a complicated mechanism. A teacher not only by the use of punishment, reward, grades, tests and school police. It is a complicated mechanism, and man must be safe and happy in the situation if he is to acquire knowledge. The working party wants a high-quality school. In contrast to the Right, which believes that we can only achieve quality by having a school police that ensures that the schools function in the way the Right believes they should, we believe that the main challenge of the school is to develop an inclusive community of work, where students, school staff and parents can facilitate a learning environment where individual students can develop their best qualities in cooperation with others. A prerequisite for this is that the school is organized in a way that allows for different ways of learning, and different ways of meeting the teaching material in practical and theoretical terms. Our curricula encourage such a way to organise learning and school life, and the schools have a high degree of freedom to organise the training as they please. Nevertheless, we do not succeed as we would wish. Of course, there is a need for action to get such a school — a school for everyone, also for the problem students, for students with a difficult social background, for students who come from different cultures and cultures other than our own. They also have to find their place and thrive in school. It becomes a central task for the school to organize learning in a way that leads students to leave school with a basic belief that they are valuable people that society needs. School must have a structure where students succeed more than they fail. Only then will they also be able to take – and grow on – defeat. Much of the concern we see at school today is that the school has not been able to take on board the requirements of the Education Act to adapt the training to the individual student's abilities and assumptions. There must be more than one effort in this area, as I mentioned earlier. School needs more resources. Teachers must feel that they are valued – their profession must be valued by society in a number of ways. We have to follow up what Stortinget said when it came to the message of teacher recruitment, and we have to have educational development work. We've now got a state development center, which is supposed to have as a task, among other things. to help each school assess how they are doing the tasks they are doing, and to start experimenting and developing the school to become a better job for students and teachers. We have a lot of problems ahead of us, but we must not forget that we have a good school, and that there are many good and interesting trials going on around Norway. I would like to mention the municipality of Oppegård, who has employed two environmental workers at each secondary school. These are at school, working with the students in the spare minutes and also have contact with them in the spare time. They are involved in creating a good environment in school. We think more adults have to go to school. This is one way to do it. So I'd like to end by saying that I'm happy that the Council of State took up this with advertising in school. We know how things have gone in the United States and Canada, where the big multinationals and big TV companies make sure to get into school by offering promises of support for technical equipment, etc., and that reward gets to affect students with their products.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e971	Last Monday I was on a school visit to Sandefjord, where a student said, "Here it's nice to be, because here I'm being seen." It wasn't a regular high school, but the little Breidablikk school, which is an alternative for students who don't fit into normal school. It was nice to talk to these students, who got closer follow-up and more adult contact than else. "Here they can grow at their pace," said the Vice-Chancellor. ‘This is not a special school, but the students will benefit from going here.’ This is one example of using the possibilities of organised training, as the Council of State says in the presentation is one of his main messages. But for this, extra resources are needed. Not all municipalities can afford this. We have a lot of fresh youth, a lot of fresh teachers, and we need more fresh money. In particular, I want to challenge the State Council on youth. What signs of illness is what he sees since he wants a fresh school? What does it take to make this not only play with letters, but also with content? ‘Especially in high school, it is necessary to think differently’ is a quotation from the statement. How can the Council of State defend cutting 14 million? kr in the revised national budget which was just about to be tested for the alternative allocation of hours at youth level? I understand that is at the expense of a reform for adults. The proposal was, of course, promoted in order to achieve a more flexible use of hourly resources and greater equality in teacher density. This would give greater local freedom in relation to the organisation of training. Experience first and, where appropriate, amendment of the law afterwards. The central government put forward a 225-million school package. kr in the last harvest of the budget. This was to be part of a four-year bet of a total of NOK 900 million. I agree with the Council of State that the quality of teachers is the key to quality in school. In St.meld. No 12 teachers are referred to as key individuals. Most of the effort in 2000 is to strengthen the role of teachers and their skills. The ability to exploit and use ICT in school is a professional and educational challenge. Leave and accommodation arrangements for teachers are also in place after prioritising this in the budget. This is the beginning of a system in which teachers are given the opportunity to update and re-train themselves, which is both necessary and desirable. This ensures teachers are filled with new knowledge, which the students will again benefit from. These funds should contribute to promoting innovation and development, diversity and flexibility. Local diversity strengthens school commitment and thus quality. The Christian People's Party wants to shift focus from central to local arenas and strengthen cooperation between school, parents, working life and society for the rest. In this way, enhanced contact can be achieved which can contribute to the desired entrepreneurial spirit. It is gratifying that the Workers' Party will continue to focus on training in the field of assistance by following up the cooperation between the KUF and the assistance authorities. I agree that education is probably the key to development. It is a moral duty for one of the world's richest countries to contribute to the building of democracy in the world today, and then we must increase our aid share, not weaken it, as has been done in the revised national budget. This is not in the Christian People's Party, and the Workers' Party knows it! Many of the measures in the education sector started by the central government are followed up, but the same old criticism of private schools is disappointing. This year’s educational policy statement confirms that the Workers’ Party will still not see the diversity and choices of private schools. Instead, they once again choose to go down into the trenches and hide behind a new concept — the common school. I agree that the single school can be seen as a single school. But the definition of uniformity is completely wrong in the Council's presentation. Unification is not when you have the freedom to choose, but when you have no choice. Shouldn't parents be given the confidence it's up to themselves to choose what they think is best for their own children? And if the parents aren't entrusted with this, who is the closest one to know? Is that the state? When the Workers' Party chooses to disregard parental rights, this shows that the ideological dividing lines between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are fixed. For the Christian People's Party, choices are a prerequisite for a democracy. Therefore, a fair school must include both a good public school and private schools. There's no difference here. Private schools are a good addition to public schools. There is also good reason to remember that the private school law was first and foremost created to safeguard the right to set up private schools on a different basis than in public schools, not on a competitive basis! This is not contrary to the Christian People's Party's desire for a good public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e992	Today's education, and especially the general field of education, gives the impression that it is characterized by strong distinctions between subjects, even though we also meet interdisciplinary projects. The risk of such strong disciplines is that there will be a number of barriers to students' learning rather than that the various disciplines together will support learning. Now I'm going to add that things are going very well, including professional integration, but it's catheter education and a split in hours of three blocks that's still normal for most people. In life outside the school, students will meet – and have to solve – complex tasks. We therefore know that when we practice pedagogy with the emphasis on working across the different disciplines, we reach several goals at the same time. The mandate that society has given to the school is to develop the whole-hearted and integrated human being. But we're still talking in our society about general knowledge versus practical knowledge. This breakdown is also currently characterised by the educational community and is central to the new education reforms. The Storting message on continuing training e.g. concluded that the two different learning traditions should be met — the academic tradition of learning, rooted in traditional Latin schools, and the professional learning traditions, as demonstrated by the apprenticeship system, in vocational education and training in schools in the industrial community as a whole. In the development of modern society, the relationship between life in classrooms and working and social life has been one of the fundamental problems of the creation of ideas on education. Contraryities between catheter and project learning, real schools and follow-up schools, syllabus sharing, level groups, vocational schools and upper secondary schools have created many political debates, school debates on the inner life of the school, and have our basis for many distributions. Responsibility for own learning and project law education is now central to education reforms, but, unfortunately, there is a long way between ideals and realities. The messages given in the management documents and in the general part of the curriculum on the organisation of education, on the practical approach to general education and on differentiation and organised education are often contrary to the realities of the school-working day with hourly planning, the fragmentation of the day in 45-minute balls, teacher-specialities, tests and examination forms. The traditional Latin ball was built around a catheter with one-sided communication and one-way knowledge feeding. Similarly, the workshop model was based on master learning without further theoretical understanding. Today, both of these are variants of clever youth learning models that are intended to prepare for an adult life in a modern and technological society. Knowledge allocation requires a more versatile learning process than a one-way model. At the same time, a complex society will put in place participants with more general knowledge than those associated with a trade or craft. That's why the unity ball, or the common sphere of any will, must unite these and thus facilitate what I would call democracy's pedagogics. One of the paradoxes of the educational community’s development is that many alternatives have been established for elephants with poor learning experience, many of which are called ‘hosts’. Such alternatives have often been taken as a starting point for their work — learning by doing things and by working schooling. First, they've been turned off from the traditional theoretical and often fragmented school system, then various alternative collectives are built up with offerings and methods that should actually permeate the whole school's operation. The future of its citizens will probably depend more on being able to function in the knowledge society. The best thing they can do will be to find new knowledge, to use their knowledge, to communicate it and to cooperate with others across borders. If our common school is to have a chance to embrace all the elephants in a quality school that can compete with each private scheme, it must find practical design within the framework of the following keywords: dialogue, group work, interaction, problem solving and project learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e1016	For the Workers' Party, equal rights to education are fundamental to the policy of distribution. Equal rights to education mean that everyone has the right to good education and to education that inspires more learning. At the end of the 1990s, many wanted a reform break. It's in my view a pointless setting. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world, and we have managed to distribute wealth quite well. Norway is the society of opportunity. We must therefore not just have high ambitions in education policy; we must have the goal of having the world's best school. Therefore, we cannot have a reform break in education policy. On the contrary, we have to look forward every day and ask ourselves, how can we work to get the world's best school, and how are we going to go forward for it to be a school for everyone? It may not come as a bomb on those who are present here in the Chamber, but I think the educational policy statement that was held in Stortinget on 4 May was good, plain and simple. I'm not going to spend a lot of time criticising the former Minister of Education, but to say that it was a relief to hear a Minister of Education who has high ambitions and clear objectives. I hope more than I was inspired to hear that statement. For now, there is a need for fresh action in education policy. Then we're going to assume that there's a lot of good in Norwegian education. Many of the objectives set out in the statement by Minister of Education Giske are those for which there is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy. One of them is that we're going to have a flexible education. The right-hand side often accuses the Workers' Party that we want to run everyone through an equal protection system. But that's a completely wrong criticism, because we're actually going to the opposite. We'll give everyone the right to education on their own premises, an education adapted to the individual's abilities and assumptions. To ensure an equivalent education, each must meet with different offers. As you can see, there is really no new substance when we introduce the term ‘common school’ instead of the single school. But I hope it's a change of concept that can better figure out what we stand for, and what, for example. Level 97, L97, actually stands for. It was found in the evaluation of primary school reform that, for example, Schools with many immigrants are among the most advanced schools in L97, precisely because they have to take seriously the fact that students are different. Schools need to be more flexible, but not just for children and young people. One of the most important aspects of the reform of continuing education is to provide those who have not completed primary or secondary education with a new chance of doing so, and which implies that training is based on the individual’s wishes and needs. A flexible school is not just about custom training, it is also about having a diversity in public schools. If all the teaching arrangements are to be the same, we're not going to get any further. The best way to make school better is just to take advantage of good experience in different ways of doing things. In addition, a good public school of diversity is the best way to avoid students breaking up by religion and by other means in various private schools. We want a school where there's room for everyone, regardless of religion and social background. Just this context, that we want a good school with room for everyone, that we want a common school and that we therefore need to have a flexible school, is absolutely fundamental if we are to achieve the goal of a fairer education policy. I'm not going to try to sum up the debate. But the sails if the other parties have been searingly engaged in showing disunity, I nevertheless hope that this is a fundamental idea and understanding for which we can gather a majority in the Stortinget, and which can form the basis for new educational reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e1042	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e1045	I would first like to point out that it is interesting to note that the Minister of Education took the word ‘individual’ in his mouth quite twice at the beginning of his presentation. There may be a positive development, although in no way did the rest of the statement offer that one had realized that education is directed at many individuals — and not at individual groups. It called for a proper tool to be put in place to examine the quality of the product and for everyone to be considered. It is strange then that the Labour Party consistently downgrades all proposals for external and reliable evaluation. However, it may be a good double communication to talk about quality and assessment — and to introduce colleagues’ vision based on floating criteria. Governments pointed out, as is right, that knowledge and education are increasingly being internationalised. One would expect the government to take the consequences of this and provide a teaching based on the individual's wishes and needs. But then one! One wants an even stronger uniformity than the one one you have with today’s state school — this in the light of the following statement: «... that we go to the same school in any case, have the same teachers, read the same books,» This makes you think of regimes I don't think the Workers' Party wants to compare with. This unification, together with the fear of the state council for freedom of choice of education, puts things in a somewhat strange light when he simultaneously talks about ‘local adaptation to local conditions’ and ‘major diversity requires greater freedom’. It's just this diversity, this freedom and adaptation, he's working to eliminate and prevent. But it is possible that freedom, from the standpoint of the Government, is the possibility of making local adjustments under freedom, as long as this is done, from the standpoint of the Government, at national level and one must continue to read the same books and not other critical literature. In a rapidly changing society where international competition is growing, it is important that Norway provide as wide a platform as possible. Alternative knowledge and competence must be considered a good thing. This alternative knowledge and competence may prove to be what is needed for innovation and development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18.ana.ud1680e1063	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. The President will propose that the sitting be suspended and that the proceedings be closed. 2:00 a.m. on the map of the day will continue when the new meeting will be set at 0:00 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
