ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e29	Representatives of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Grethe Fossli, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, Ågot Valle, Laila Kaland, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Marit Tingelstad, Dag Danielsen and Hallgeir H. Langeland, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the leave of the representative Einar Johansen from 13 June to 16 June to take part in the meeting of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission in Murmansk from the Høyeres Storingsgruppe on the leave of the representative Svein Ludvigsen from 13 June to 16 June to take part in the meeting of the Nordic Council in St. Petersburg's Economic Forum of the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug on welfare leave from 15 to 16 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Finnmark County: Inger Lise BalandinFor More and Romesdal County: Aud FolkestadFor Troms County: Elisabeth Aspaker3. Elisabeth Aspaker is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Svein Ludvigsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e108	Before dealing with the issues on today's map, the President will propose that the morning's meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15, until the end of the current map. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e118	I am grateful for this opportunity to explain the EU's work on a common European security and defence policy, the ESDP, and the Government's commitment so far in the matter. Today, we are facing a Europe that looks a lot different than just a few years ago. EU enlargement will help balance the former eastern and western divides in Europe. Cooperation within the EU is deepening and deepening. Europe is changing strongly. It creates a new challenge for Norway. Therefore, the Government wants to pursue an active and offensive European policy. We want to focus on the possibilities that the new framework conditions give us, and not just focus on the problems. Norway is also responsible for development in Europe. We want to be a constructive contributor and co-player. Passive adjustment is not enough. One of the most dynamic processes in EU cooperation today is the development of a common European security and defence policy. This also concerns basic Norwegian interests. It is important, as we have seen, that European countries take greater responsibility for peace and security. Norway wants to participate. We are ready to contribute military and civil resources. We want a closer relationship with this new EU cooperation in Norway. The experience of the Balkans over the past ten years has shown that the European country’s capacity for crisis management is not good enough. On the British-French initiative, 18 months ago at the meeting in St. Malo, new momentum was created in EU cooperation on security and defence policy. The starting point was the desire for a more effective and credible foreign and security policy and the strengthening of European crisis management capabilities. Last year’s NATO summits in Washington and in the EU in Cologne and Helsinki provide the basis for strengthening European security and defence in general, with particular emphasis on crisis management. In Helsinki, the EU Member States set themselves a common goal by 2003 to set a strength of 50,000 – 60 000 men within 60 days, and to maintain such commitment for up to one year. The task of these forces to be crisis management, they called the Petersberg tasks. It's not meant to take over NATO's tasks as defined at the Washington Summit last year. But Petersberg’s tasks — which consist of rescue operations, crisis management and peace operations — can also become more demanding than the 15 EU countries themselves are able to mobilise resources. This is why the EU wants to have the opportunity to use NATO resources. EU countries place great emphasis on the ESDP as a new project to deepen and extend EU cooperation. The Western Union, which has until now been the European countries’ cooperation organisation for military and security policy issues, will be phased out as the EU assumes these tasks, and a whole new cooperation between NATO and the EU will be established. Non-member countries need to seek access arrangements to the new EU cooperation that cannot be at the same level as full participation. As I understand the attitude of the Storting, there is broad agreement on: Norwegian support for a strengthened European crisis management capability the need to develop the ESDP in close cooperation between the EU and NATO and to seek the closeest possible Norwegian link to the new EU cooperation on security and defence policy This broad consensus is a valuable contribution to our work to ensure the best possible Norwegian connection to this process on the basis of our ability to contribute. I am convinced that Norway's contribution to this is valuable. It concerns whether the EU would choose to draw on NATO resources or not need NATO assistance. I would remind you that the Stortinget recently agreed that Norway should set up an effort force of about 3 500 people for international operations. It shall be fully part of the ordinary defence structure and may be notified to the relevant international force registers. It will be up to date for future EU-led operations, which I will repeat and confirm to the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union. Norway has long traditions of participation in international crisis management. We have contributed significantly for a number of years. More than 60,000 Norwegians have participated in various UN operations, including in the Middle East, Africa and the former Yugoslavia. Today, we have over 1,200 in the service of the international force in Kosovo. In addition to our military contributions, we have made considerable efforts in the humanitarian field and in resolving conflicts with diplomatic and political instruments. We have also made significant financial contributions to peace and reconstruction. Not least our preparedness for civil aspects of crisis management will be of great value to the type of conflicts and crises we need to be prepared for in the future. Since accession, the Government has worked actively towards the EU and its Member States and NATO. We have emphasised very strongly Norway's positive attitude to the ESDP process and highlighted Norway's willingness to contribute military and civil resources. We have also underlined the need to develop good cooperation and consultation arrangements between NATO and the EU and the importance of achieving satisfactory participation schemes for Norway. We are now facing a new important stage. Since the Helsinki Summit, the EU has been particularly active in its institutional relations with NATO and in shaping relations with non-EU countries. These circumstances particularly affect Norway. I will first give a brief description of what we expect to come out of the EU summit in Feira in Portugal on 19-20 June in these areas, and then give the Government an assessment of the expected decisions. The Portuguese Presidency will present a report on the work of a common European security and defence policy, the ESDP, to the Summit. The report shall address: the development of European strength objectives, the so-called ‘headline goal’ mechanisms for cooperation with NATO mechanisms for cooperation with third countries the development of civil crisis management capability and the issue of Treaty changes are necessary; There is now a consensus in the EU on key issues regarding the framework for NATO/EU cooperation and third country involvement. The documents are provisionally approved at the level of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and are reviewed at the EU ministerial meeting on 13 June, with a view to a decision at the summit. As far as relations with NATO are concerned, the EU is expected to propose that four working groups with NATO be set up to discuss: the development of a security agreement between NATO and the EU on cooperation in concreteising strength objectives and defence planning procedures for EU access to NATO resources and proposals for lasting relations between NATO and the EU; The groups will be able to provide the basis for permanent consultation and cooperation arrangements. The EU’s objective is to have these schemes in place after the Nice Summit in December. The time for the first meetings of the groups, the level of participation or the design and decision-making procedures of recommendations has not yet been clarified. The EU's proposals for cooperation arrangements were central to the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in Florence in May. The proposals were well received. There was a broad consensus on progress in the work of NATO. The discussions also confirmed broad agreement on the positive attitude of the Alliance towards the ESDP and the importance of active support from NATO to the EU. I underlined in my post at the NATO meeting that the new Norwegian government is behind the ESDP. I stressed the need for NATO to support the implementation of the EU's strength objectives and to develop a generous offer of support. Work should be carried out in parallel in NATO without waiting for all questions to be resolved on the EU side. I pointed out that the EU must now define the need for NATO support. I argued that consultations on crisis management between NATO and the four non-aligned EU countries – including Sweden and Finland – are also important. The four must receive an offer to participate in NATO's work on crisis management and support for EU-led operations that go beyond what they currently receive as members of the Partnership for Peace. From the Norwegian side, we have maintained close contact with EU countries in order to gain access to good arrangements with NATO and for the six European allies non-EU countries. I have raised these issues with colleagues from the EU countries, not least the Nordic countries, in addition to High Representative Javier Solana and EU Commissioner Chris Patten. In these contacts, we have underlined our support for the ESDP and made it clear that we want to contribute resources and competences to EU-led operations. This is the background to the wish for contact arrangements. We have underlined that such schemes are a means of ensuring that our contribution becomes relevant and of enabling rapid decisions on participation in EU-led operations. In my view, we have come to understand these points of view. I expect the EU Summit to decide that the EU will establish a mechanism for dialogue, consultation and cooperation with the 13 candidate countries as well as Norway and Iceland. The 15 EU countries plus the 13 candidate countries and Norway and Iceland, this so-called 15 + 15 framework, become the more comprehensive and inclusive structure. At the same time, the EU has accepted to some extent our argument about the need for a particularly close cooperation with the six European allied non-EU countries, i.e. Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Iceland, Turkey and Norway. A separate 15+6 format is therefore added for contacts and consultations within this 15+15 framework. At the same time, the EU has made it clear that there are clear limits to what countries outside the EU can expect to achieve beyond what has now been proposed. It is also strongly emphasised that EU decision-making autonomy must be maintained. Only EU countries will take part in decisions. The EU aims to consult with the 15 countries during the interim phase, which is likely to last this year, on the implementation of the EU's common strength targets and the contribution of non-members to this. During this period, the following objectives shall be pursued: at least two meetings in the EU+15 structure, one of which at ministerial level, and at least two meetings in the EU+6 format, one of which at ministerial level In the permanent phase, which is likely to start at the end of the year, cooperation is divided into a routine phase and an operational phase. In the routine phase, meetings will be held on issues related to security and defence policy, with particular emphasis on military capacity for crisis management. This basically meets our desire for a wide-ranging agenda for the consultations. It shall be kept as planned: regular meetings of the EU+15 structure, meet at least twice per year. EU Presidency in EU+6 format, and ministerial meetings assessed on the basis of experience from the interim period In the operational phase, when crisis management operations are planned or carried out, dialogue is intensified. The six NATO countries are entitled to participate if NATO resources are used and they may be invited to participate in operations that do not attract NATO resources. The decision to launch an operation will be taken by the Council of the EU. Non-EU countries confirming their participation by outsourcing a significant military force will have the same rights and obligations as participating EU countries today to the day-management of the operation. Participating non-EU countries exercise influence in this context through the work of a management committee for the operation. This Committee will be accountable to the Executive Director for the operation. However, the EU Council or the Political and Security Committee, the PSC, will be responsible for overall strategic management and political control of the operation. Only Member States of the European Union will participate here. Let me add that on 22 May, EU foreign ministers decided to set up an advisory and coordinating committee on the civil aspects of crisis management. In the coming years, the Committee will, among other things: look at how best to cooperate with non-member countries and international organisations. On the part of the Government, we attach great importance to participation in this area too, not least because of Norway's strong commitment to civilian crisis management. The situation that arises implies that Norway has several points of contact with the ESDP. Institutional cooperation between NATO and the EU is becoming important to us. Of course, we'll participate fully on the NATO side, and that's through this work we can exercise the greatest influence. And then we're going to meet in the 15+15 and the 15+6 format. Here, there is a certain opportunity to influence, in advance of EU decisions, in crisis situations and to participate in general discussions on defence and security policy. However, the main part of the work is carried out in the EU bodies. In crisis situations, we are given the opportunity to participate in the day-to-day management of the operation through the Steering Committee of contributors. Third countries participating will have the same rights as participating EU countries. However, as mentioned, the EU will have political control and responsibility for the strategic direction of the operation. It is positive that there is agreement in the EU on the framework for relations with NATO. That means that the alliance can now progress in its part of the work. However, we have to assume that it will be a complicated and time-consuming task to implement the proposed schemes. From the Norwegian side, we will be drivers in establishing the four working groups expected to be proposed by the EU. It is particularly important to start work on the NATO-EU security agreement soon. Such an agreement will be the cornerstone of practical military and security cooperation. NATO also needs to clarify several issues related to a strengthening target conference planned by the EU in November, including the concreteisation of the offer of EU access to NATO resources. From the Norwegian side, we are concerned about the possibility of participating in multinational forces that will be notified to the European strength targets. The work to ensure good relations with the EU for non-members has been difficult, but the result shows, in the government's view, that there is a willingness to listen to our arguments, even though we would like to have an even more comprehensive system. However, it has been clear all along that countries outside the EU cannot have access mechanisms at the same level as full participation. We have made a significant effort to implement the principle of our own 15+6 meetings and later for a reasonable number of meetings in this format, including at ministerial level. We have had good drags from several EU countries. I would like to stress that much is still unclear about the real content. It concerns the agenda of meetings, the level — including the number of 15+6 political meetings — and the relationship between the six of them and the EU Military Committee and the military staff. We will participate in the Operation Steering Committee when we contribute, but we have no guarantee that this committee will have sufficient influence over the operations as long as the final authority remains in the EU. Thus, the solutions for participation are not optimal. Getting satisfactory contents of the 15+15 and 15+6 schemes is a major challenge. As I have pointed out in other contexts, of course we do not have the same influence as the Member States of the European Union. EU Member States strongly emphasise the need to respect EU decision-making autonomy and stress that non-members cannot expect a level-of-membership relationship. There has been massive opposition from EU countries to the continuation of the Western Union system. It is noted that the Western Union has not worked and that the EU as an institution is different from the Western Union. This is something we, as non-EU countries, just have to take note of. Having said that, I believe that we still have the opportunity to influence the concrete content of the arrangements in the framework of the cooperation that is now being adopted. The Government attaches great importance to consultation and coordination with the other five NATO countries concerned. That is why I have invited these countries and the High Representative of the European Union, Javier Solana, to a meeting after the EU summit in Feira. At this meeting, which is likely to take place in Brussels, Solana will inform us of the outcome of the summit. It will give the six opportunities to discuss the further approach to the process. Important progress has been made in the EU's work on the ESDP in recent months. Although we could wish for better 15+6 arrangements, the government believes that we are best served to adopt a constructive attitude. My impression is that the decisions prepared by the EU provide room for flexibility in practical cooperation. It will be a challenge to exploit this flexibility to create systems that work satisfactorily. We will continue our driving role. We want to keep in touch with the EU, the EU and NATO Member States and with the other five allied non-EU members. We want to press NATO for progress in supporting the EU. We will work actively to ensure that our consultation arrangements with the EU are as satisfactory as possible. Our goal is to work with the other European countries to develop the ESDP so that Europe is not disconnected from the United States. It is absolutely necessary to maintain strong transatlantic relations, while developing our own viable European security and defence policy cooperation, and I believe that progress is moving in the right direction. Finally, I would like to say this: it is necessary to have an overall perspective on what is now happening in Europe. The development of European security and defence must be seen in the context of other major processes taking place in the EU, the development of economic and monetary union and the EU enlargement to the east and south-east. We see a fundamental change in Europe. Our continent is about to appear not only as a geographical entity but also as a political entity with its own identity. The EU is the driving force in this. Norway needs to find arrangements in relation to the EU based on the fact that we are not a member. The 1994 referendum must be respected. At the same time, it is the government's duty to draw attention to the fact that we cannot then have full influence over the decisions taken by the EU. In an ever-increasing number of areas, we need to join and implement decisions that others make. It is therefore important for Norway to pursue an active and offensive European policy. This will give us a greater impact than a passive and partly negative attitude towards the EU. We are clearly told how important this is in terms of security and defence policy. By offering our participation to both military and civil crisis management in the EU, and by putting in place the reconstruction of the Balkans – as we are now doing through the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe – Norway has more influence than our non-membership of the EU should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e258	The President will now open up a limited debate, which will allow one representative from each party group to speak for up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e261	Let me first of all thank the Foreign Minister for this presentation. It was a more nuanced and precise description of the problem than the statements quoted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs during his visit to Florence. Therefore, this was a useful and good clarification and clarification of the issues involved. Without a doubt, European security and defence cooperation is one of the most topical issues in the current foreign policy debate. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway should take a positive view of the British-French initiative on a stronger European responsibility in the field of defence and security policy. In the Kosovo action, it was 90 pst. American military capacity is present, and it goes without saying that this should not be the picture in the future. Our status as a full member of NATO calls for close follow-up of the ESDP by Norway for the best possible connection to EU defence and security cooperation. Of course, it poses significant challenges. But I am pleased with the signals expressed today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, both his more optimistic offensive attitude gave Norway’s position in this picture – as a member of NATO but as a non-member of the EU – and also that he emphasised so strongly that this initiative should in no way weaken transatlantic cooperation. Norway will contribute actively to building a European military preparedness for crisis management of 60000 personnel by 2003. That means that we sign up and want to have an active part in making decisions. On the other hand, we are not members of the EU and must therefore have realistic expectations as to how far it is possible to go in terms of influence and participation. We are not in the European Union's own bodies, which take the decisions. This is self-chosen, it's the people's choice, and of course we'll deal with that. It has to be respected, regardless of government. This means that as long as it is the EU's own resources to be used in such operations, we need to make our views felt through the best possible consultation arrangements. In any case, we must ensure real influence on the decisions that lead to the insertion of Norwegian forces into peacekeeping operations. But in those cases where it's about involving NATO resources, we obviously don't have to be careful with consultations. We must then be able to demand full involvement, from a possible initiative to a decision. At this point, I do not think the Minister for Foreign Affairs was particularly complementary or precise. I would like to challenge him to give a description of the issues we are facing in this regard, and of what is the Government's position. In principle, the proposed working groups within the 15+15 structure and the 15+6 structure will be able to meet our needs for follow-up. But, of course, everything will depend on the content of what these working groups are going to discuss, and that there is a willingness to address both substance and concrete issues to the working groups in sufficient time before decision is taken. It is also important that Norway actively follows up through NATO, so that NATO develops its own relations and initiatives in parallel with the development of the ESDP, and not only passively. I think there is reason to stress that the ESDP cannot replace or take over the important Article 5 operations in NATO, which triggers a mutual commitment to military assistance. This, I think, was well underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs today. NATO will remain the main pillar of Norwegian security and defence policy. However, through a Norwegian connection to the ESDP, we demonstrate our willingness to take greater responsibility for the security policy situation in Europe. Norway has already taken binding decisions in this way. In fact, that is more than many EU countries have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e284	I really don't have much to say about the Minister for Foreign Affairs' posts. That was a good explanation. The same came from Mr. Stone sneezing. There's only one thing I can relate to, and it's quite important: it was said that evolution is going in the right direction. Well, it's probably going in the right direction that we could hope it would go – based on our situation. But we have actually come into the situation that a country like Sweden will have political control and responsible management of this force, this defence policy and these operations, when they start and end, etc. If this should escalate to become more serious things, we can be drawn, through Article 5 of NATO, while the Swedes can calmly withdraw, because they have no obligation to solidarity. The second thing that has happened is that there has been a division of defence policy in Europe that did not exist before. You've now got a ring of those who are going to decide, you've got these six that are going to get a little bit more advantageous order, we have some others that almost don't have anything they should have said, and we have those that don't have any connection at all. So we've got some kind of circles around the European Union. At the same time, we have heard Minister Fischer talk about the prospects for a federal Europe. I have observed that the European Parliament is struggling with beaks and claws to destroy the Western European Union Assembly in order to eventually take over the governance of defence policy. We just have to look into that in our eyes. We had an interesting meeting here in Oslo in the Western Union. There was a joint declaration by six countries, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Turkey, Iceland and Norway, expressing our wishes. I think it would be very wise for the Government to maintain good contact with these countries and with other countries that are in a way excluded from this cooperation, a cooperation which in many ways seems to be aimed at a federation. We should have a constructive attitude. This brings me to a third point, which I think is quite essential: what has now happened is that the democratic legitimacy of defence policy in Europe is severely weakened. The Western European Union Assembly called on the various ‘sizes’ of the governments of Europe to explain defence and foreign policy issues and had to answer questions from representatives of the Assembly. Now, the situation is that it is actually aimed at rendering this assembly harmless — to a discussion club, it looks like. At least the European Parliament clearly wants this. But the European Parliament itself has no control over this, because under the Treaties they have no right to govern this policy; they have a minimal influence. Now this has moved to the government level, and the major powers are the rulers. We might have had a longer debate on this – the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that we had to see the whole thing. I'm not quite sure if evolution is going in the right direction. It kind of depends on the eyes that look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e303	One can discuss for a long time whether developments are going in the right direction or in the wrong direction, but what we can see is that there is a development that we have to focus on, and it's not in the Storing we decide in which direction to go. It's our relationship with this development we're going to discuss. The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a good review of the status of European cooperation, so good that the representative Steensnæs now was well pleased with the content of the Foreign Minister said – and the Foreign Minister said it was the same thing that Steensnæs was quite dissatisfied with some time ago, so we are going in the right direction, at least on that point. We have decided by referendum that Norway should not participate in European cooperation in defence and security policy, but we have adopted in the Storting and through statements of intent at the NATO Summit that we should participate as far as possible in European cooperation. We have also concluded by adopting decisions in NATO meetings that it should be such a European development. What we now need to discuss is how to cooperate with the countries of the European Union that appear to be at the heart of this cooperation. What we should have as an ambition is that European cooperation should include as much as possible in Europe. In addition to that, I will not comment on the status of the foreign minister, but I will only make a few comments in relation to the theory of what is going to happen in the future. I think that should be very careful, because one has started on a process that we don't know about. When it comes to this process, “getting to the road as we go”, and therefore we will never have peace in this area. Now we have some committees in place, we have some structures in place, but the content will change in the future, and therefore there will be a need to keep coming back to such updates, discussions on how Norway will deal with cooperation in the EU. Of course, it is not in the short term that the problem arises, if it arises, nor is it in relation to participating in any action. The problem is what can occur in the long term. And as former Foreign Minister Vollebæk stressed in his statement: if this were actually to develop into a two-pillar NATO, the situation has fundamentally changed. It's not like that, but it can be like that. That's why I think one should be a little careful to find that now we're safe because, after all, we can have something to say when the EU is going to draw on NATO's resources. There is no sharp distinction between what is NATO resources and what is national resources that can be used in an EU context. So it could be a little bit daunting when you give an idea of what we heard here, that we're on the safe side. At the moment, we can use NATO as an instrument of Norwegian influence, but this can also be weakened if European cooperation becomes tighter. It is the same ministers who meet, either in a NATO Assembly or in an EU Assembly. If they go a few miles out of the centre of Brussels and out to NATO and meet with a NATO hat, these defence ministers or foreign ministers from the EU countries hopefully mean the same thing. This is the challenge for us, which means that we still have to come back and see what we can achieve in relation to the current situation in the European Union. As it is now, it is clear that in the EU there is a very different view of what should be – from those who want the smallest peacekeeping operations to those who want to engage in heavier actions and thus see this as a clear Europeanisation of NATO. But we do not know this now, and it is only through the democratic debate that is taking place in the bodies of the European Union that we will have clarity on this. That's why we still have to consider new situations that we're not involved in defining, but which others define. We've decided that it should be like this, this is our way. And as it looks now, we have achieved satisfactory results as far as possible in the current situation, but next year this could be changed. That is why we need to emphasise the will to cooperate in the EU context, which is what is important, that EU countries commit themselves to such cooperation. That must be the starting point for our debate as well. We must not think that now we have solved the problem; the problem will appear again in ever new ways in new facets, and we must take a position on that year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e316	Let me begin by thanking you for an interesting and informative statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I think it was very important that this statement came now. It's a very important question we're facing, it's in many ways about Norway's potential within what's a core area: how to anchor ourselves. In this way, I cannot hide some surprise at the format of this debate. I had thought in my naivety that this was of such magnitude that we would have a series of parliamentary leaders to address the questions. So we don't have that, and I have to admit that surprises me, just taking the order of magnitude into account. So the question is whether we can be satisfied with what's happening now, and I think that to a very large extent is a matter of scale. Is the scale of what Norway has earned based on national interests, or is the scale what we can realistically expect from the fact that we have chosen to keep Europe at arm's length? If the scale is the last one, I think we can say we're reasonably satisfied with the evolution that's taking place, and the possibilities that we have to connect to the process. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that I think it is important here to meet this with a positive basic attitude. But what we have to bear in mind is that although much of this is formally about Petersberg's tasks, about crisis management tasks – which have rightly been introduced to NATO's new tasks – it is nevertheless an expression of what the Minister of Foreign Affairs called a deepening of cooperation. And we have to assume that although we formally stick to crisis management tasks, the fact that the European Union is committed to this area means that there will be a crucial focus on these issues. In this way, I would like to remind you that for Norway, the Atlantic Community itself is the bottom layer of our foreign policy orientation, but we need to look into the fact that the European Union is more and more the European part of this Atlantic community. We can have all sorts of illusions that this is not the situation, but everyone knows that the Americans regard Europe and the European Union as essentially the same side. This means that the transatlantic climate will to a large extent be determined by how EU countries and the EU deal with their part of this issue, including: in the case of defence appropriations, but also in the case of a number of other important issues. Therefore, it is with frustration that Norway has to be able to say that with regard to the climate over the Atlantic itself, which we are so dependent on, we have a very modest degree of influence: no matter how good arrangements we get in the area we are now talking about, we will always be on the outside. This means, therefore, that we are only talking about good solutions in terms of what is Norway’s real interests. And I think we have to be as honest as saying that there is only one thing that will perfectly cover Norway's interests in this area, and that is whether we had been a full member of the European family. But we have chosen not to be. I belong to those who believe it is right for the EU to develop this cooperation; I think it is very important that Europe contributes more than we have done so far. And there is no doubt that the American expectation now is that the interest and effort are not just about structures, but that this work leads to a greater real contribution from the European side. This is why it is important and good when the Minister of Foreign Affairs stresses that Norway should contribute. I also agree that developing good mechanisms between NATO and the EU is at the heart of this, so that we do not disconnect decision-making processes. The Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke a lot – and in a good way – about the Government’s active European policy. I'm actually not sure if in practice there's going to be such a big difference with the previous government, since we have some self-imposed constraints. The main difference is that the previous government did what it did, because it had to, while the sitting government does what it does, because it thinks it's right. And that's an important difference in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e333	The EU’s defence and security cooperation initiatives have created a new situation that Norway also needs to deal with, but the starting point for Norway’s assessment of the situation must be primarily what serves our defence and security policy interests. Against this background, one cannot be surprised that some people use the establishment of the ESDP as a starting point to focus on the fact that Norway as a non-member is not in a position to participate in EU decision-making bodies. This, of course, is again used as a basis for claiming that Norway is in a state of crisis in security policy. An unknown expression is that Norway is becoming ‘marginalised’. This expression is just so unexplained that it can be used to create confusion and confusion about Norwegian defence and security policy. In yesterday's VG, a new expression emerged in this debate, namely that: Norway is at risk of «porting a security policy backyard in Europe». Think about it! The NATO country of Norway, with its strategic location and strategic position as an oil and gas supplier, was claimed to be in Europe's security policy backyard! Compared with the scepticism previously expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the presentation was now somewhat more balanced. Instead of focusing on ‘the major limitations Norway has to live under’, the Minister of Foreign Affairs today chose to focus on the possibilities. It should be lacking, for Norway cannot be aware that its foreign minister is more pessimistic about the prospect of a satisfactory solution for Norway than his British colleague Robin Cook. It is official Norwegian policy to stand outside these decision-making forums. And as long as this is official Norwegian policy, it is also irrelevant to talk about, as some do, that Norway does not have direct influence, or that Norway receives semi-good solutions, for that matter. If Norway or any other Member State were to participate in the Union’s internal decision-making processes, it would be undermined by the autonomy of the EU. It is, as I said, and as stated, only the EU that can make decisions about the EU to engage militarily in the areas of conflict in question. However, if the EU is to draw on NATO forces in connection with such conflicts, Norway, as a full NATO member, has the same influence over NATO’s decisions as other NATO countries. As regards the safety situation of Norway per year. Today, one has to be able to establish: NATO remains the basis of collective security in Europe, and the alliance will also play a central role in future crisis management. To the extent that NATO will be involved in such operations, Norway as a NATO member will be involved in the decision-making process. The transatlantic links shall not be weakened — and important — if Norway is to participate in such operations, it shall be decided by national decisions. In the debate on the ESDP, there is often a claim that Norwegian membership would have given Norway greater space for foreign policy action. But, as the Foreign Minister said, here a more comprehensive perspective must be taken into account, because there can be no doubt that our non-membership also has its clear advantages. Independence in relation to the one voice to be spoken by the EU also offers opportunities to play an important role in the international arena. Norway is in a favourable position between the EU and the United States, claims, for example, Terje Red-Larsen. He also says that the European Commission would not have allowed Norway to play the role we did in the Middle East, if Norway had been a member of the EU. In the Central Party, we are pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs today struck a somewhat more optimistic tone in view of the arrangements Norway will be able to achieve in relation to the ESDP.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e361	In my opinion, it will be a small perspective on this debate. I'll start by lifting my eyes a little bit. I think the greatest neglect Western Europe did after the cold end of the war was not immediately to start building a defence cooperation that included all countries in Europe, including Russia. The biggest security threat in Europe since then has been the absence of systems that include Russia. And it's dangerous to build security-policy associations where the border is constantly approaching Russia. The threat we are now facing is that the wars that have occurred since the end of the Cold War are not traditional warriors, as we learned from school, but to a very large extent are civil wars or conflicts within the framework of the nation state. And in Europe, within Russia and former Eastern European countries, the actual threat situation is present. When, on the one hand, the EU countries and NATO are pushing to determine what kind of operations to engage in, and, on the other hand, have a drag on where responsibility and influence should be – which can be positive, which can dampen the self-interest of the US in the intervention of conflicts around the world – the perspective is nevertheless wrong, because the perspective is always that we are now going to sort out the conflicts of other countries, or we are going to get in and prevent the conflicts of other countries, while the perspective should be the opposite, thinking of pan-European systems that included those countries where the conflicts are also the largest. There is a different way of thinking: a much more preventive way of thinking. I think the most eye-catching thing about the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that there is no problem with the EU/NATO relationship with the UN and the OSCE. Because when the Minister of Foreign Affairs says that the EU will have the political control and responsibility for the strategic management of any operation, and Norway will not even be able to participate in political control or be responsible for strategic management, it will be a crucial question for SV who is the contracting entity, and what kind of mandate the type of mission is being discussed. One must be that the UN is the contracting entity and that the UN gives the mandate. While we all know that it is NATO and the European Union that, in today's situation, can exercise it, this is fundamental to whether the operations that may be carried out have legitimacy and respect international law. On the SV side, we are afraid that some of the moves we are seeing between the EU and the United States can lead to a new upgrade. It must not be the aim of any of what is being done on the defence front, on the contrary. There is a significant need to transform a more conflict prevention approach into defence work. The painful experience we have from the conflicts in recent years is, for example: that the biggest mistake made by Western Europe and the United States in relation to Kosovo was not understanding what kind of apartheid-like conditions existed in Kosovo for ten years before a non-violent Kosovo Albanian resistance was no longer possible, and before it had to become a military conflict – and that is almost always too late. It must be an overall perspective. I also fully agree with Johan J. Jakobsen’s perspective that Norway outside the EU has an opportunity to do a job of connecting parties around the world, of participating in peace negotiations and of facilitating peace negotiations – a job that we could not have done as a full EU member.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e380	Let me begin by sharing the opinion that several have expressed, that it was a good and informative statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and at a level of precision that these questions deserve. I also share the view expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Europe's security policy situation has changed, precisely the development of this common security and defence cooperation and crisis management in the EU. And there is reason to state, also for one who opposed Norwegian EU membership, that the EU has taken on an important role in security policy. I believe it is central that this EU initiative is there to prevent conflicts and to ensure stability and development in Europe, because Norway has an interest in and responsibility to contribute to such regional crisis management. With the development of the ESDP, Norway is, of course, in a situation where we cannot influence decisions as to whether, when and how EU action is to be carried out, in line with the EU countries themselves. There is reason to give credit for the foreign minister following up the work of the previous government to safeguard Norwegian interests in the development of EU security and defence cooperation, and I do not think there is any basis for making rhetoric around the fact that the previous government had some reluctance on these issues, or even more so as Jan Petersen stated, that it had to and would not - it is wrong. Based on non-membership, the previous government also worked offensively, in line with the current, to find good solutions for Norway in these areas. It is also important for Norway to work through all possible channels, both via NATO, the EU candidate country and via EU countries directly to ensure Norway as much influence as possible. Norway must not least strengthen the security and defence policy dialogue with the other Nordic countries, as the Foreign Minister also explained. It is also important for Norway to work for maximum transparency within the EU’s defence and security policies, so that work is also more transparent in general. It's an engagement left has and is also going to keep going on in this work. Norway should continue to signal that we are committed to participating in an EU-led crisis management apparatus. However, if we are to make Norwegian strength contributions at the disposal, this will require involvement in the decision-making process on the EU side. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly, including today, emphasised that Norway’s potential for influence is determined by our form of EU involvement. Yes, of course it is. Non-membership cannot imply the same possibility of influence as membership, and that is Norwegian official policy. It is also important to sort the cards in this discussion. The EU's plans today do not include building up a competitor for NATO, but rather develop to become what we can say is a complementary security policy actor. The EU has not assumed an independent responsibility for defending peace on the continent. Norway's challenge, our security needs, is met by being a full member of a multilateral and mutually committed defence organisation, today represented by NATO. It is also a long way to go before the EU has a force and an army that can be used in the same way as NATO forces, without the help of NATO resources. Therefore, the EU’s commitment will depend precisely on cooperation with NATO, where Norway, known as a full participant, is involved. Norway may also be considered as an important partner in the light of its experience in international peace operations, civil crisis management and conflict prevention. Norway is considered a relatively heavy player on the northern European scale in international operations – it is about trust, it is about our unique experience as a NATO member over 51 years, and we are considered impartial in most conflicts. With St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99 on international operations, presented by the Bondevik Government, our participation in international operations is also predictable. This applies to resources we can participate with, and how long we can have strengths standing. Developments towards multinational formations in international operations also strengthen close cooperation with EU countries in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e407	Then there is the opportunity for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to make a final comment – and he would like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e411	Yes, in fact, I have a strong need to say something at the end, because I believe that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has contributed to adding a ambiguity, not by my side, but by his own side, which must not be undisputed. At this point there must be no ambiguity. Firstly, I have to ask myself why the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee continues to cast doubt on what has actually been stated in Norwegian foreign policy. There's no contradiction between what I said here and what I said in the newspapers. I felt a great need to say that Norway cannot get a system in relation to the EU as if we were a member. That's what I said in the papers, I've repeated it strongly here. Nevertheless, when the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee says so, it may be related to – and the opinions here today actually point to it – that he believes that we have a greater influence than what we actually get. Also Johan J. Jakobsen’s statements can indicate that. Now I have reservations that I can misinterpret what is being said. But Einar Steensnæs said: When NATO's resources are to be used, we must not be careful with consultations, then we must require full involvement from planning to decision making. Johan J. Jakobsen said: To the extent that NATO is to be involved in such operations, Norway is involved in the decision-making process. This isn't right. I have to say to the Storting: this is not right. What's the case, is what I said in my post, that we have the right to participate if NATO's resources can be used, and we can be invited to participate in operations that do not attract the alliance's resources. However, the decision to initiate an operation will be taken by the Council of the EU. We don't get it. It is the Council of the European Union that decides whether to launch an operation, including the use of NATO resources. It's also clear that we're then part of the arrangements that are in order to control these operations. However, as I said, it will be the Council of the European Union or the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security, the PSC, which will be responsible for the political decisions. On these points, there can be no doubt, because if it continues, we get a result that is not consistent with what the Storting thought would be possible in advance. I am pleased that, after all, there is a majority in the Storting that does not have this doubt, for the Right Representative was ready on this point, and thus the Government has a majority in order to be able to proceed on the basis laid. But I had to say this so clearly, because we can't now move on to the summit in Feira and after that without it being absolutely clear on what basis we're doing it. I believe that this has been clear all along, and it has now become very clear on the paper that this will be the case. However, I would like to say that we have opportunities for participation at an acceptable level, and this is also due to, among other things, the active attitude Norway has taken in both civil and military crisis management, and the fact that we have said so clearly that we want to participate. We compensate pretty much through it, but we can never get there that we are involved in the decision-making process on this. And for the future, this raises a bigger question, and here you have to look at it process-orientedly, you don't have to view this as a static question. That is why I fully agree with what Jan Petersen said in an excellent way. He said, although it's a formal matter of Petersberg tasks, it's a deepening of the cooperation that we see. In other words, we are seeing the beginning of a deepening of EU cooperation, where the EU is quite likely to be the European pillar in NATO, and that this will also be achieved through the documents now to be produced in cooperation between the EU and NATO. It is clear that this will mean a new situation for Norway. At first, it's probably not going to be that serious, but eventually this could become more and more problematic. And we have to keep that in mind, otherwise we'll wonder ourselves. I feel that we politicians have a responsibility to clarify what is actually the situation now, and what may become the situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e428	Then we finished dealing with case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e440	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e451	‘Children are worth their weight in gold’ is a statement in the Labour Party some years ago. That's true. If so, working with children must be worth gold. Preschool teachers and child care assistants may not always know it this way in a busy everyday life. But they are the most important resource we have to offer good and safe kindergartens. And research shows that parents are very naked with their kindergarten offerings. Since kindergartens are important for children, it is important that those who want them to have room. As you can see, today is a big day for Norwegian children and their parents. Today, the Storting takes important steps to allow those who want it to fit their children in kindergartens by 2003. By 2005 they will also have cheaper kindergartens. It's only when this happens that we can say that we have full babysitting. Full child care coverage has been a cross-political objective since the previous daycare service was handled in 1987-88. The goal was to be achieved by 2000, and the municipalities were required to represent the major part of the development. For the Labour Party, childcare provision has been one of the main pillars of a forward-looking child and family policy. And the sector needs to be strengthened, as the Prime Minister said in Bergen this week. Despite the increase in maternity leave from 18 to 42 weeks in this period, the 6-year-olds start school from 1997, and despite the introduction of cash support for 1- and 2-year-olds, we have not reached the target. Increased prices and reduced use of parental income graded payments and system moderation have clearly reduced demand. Nevertheless, many are still in kindergarten cows across the whole country, and many more would have been there if the supply were better organised, more available and/or cheaper. In the 1990s, private individuals have had a monthly increase in the number of kindergartens compared to municipalities. Now we think there's going to be more swing on the issues. To do that, we need to do something more, and in part, something different from what the Bondevik government proposed. I'm glad that a broad plural, including the center part, supports the main platitude in the matter. A large number of them provide good assurance that this will be followed up in the next few budgets and otherwise with the necessary legislative and regulatory changes. I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive and good cooperation. In the following, I will do the right thing for the most important elements of the Storting setup. Other speakers from the Workers' Party will do better for other aspects of this setting. The goal is full child care coverage, not in terms of a percentage for which you can count as full child care coverage, but in terms of providing all those who want it with space that is reasonable in relation to what they need, and at a price they can overcome. The Bondevik government has assessed the need for 25 000 new places to reach the target. The majority say that they do not have the right permissions to assess whether this is appropriate. We ask the Government to evaluate this and keep the Storting regularly informed about the need and demand for nursery facilities. We are very aware that the demand will increase with increased supply and reduced parental pay. Sweden has recently decided to legislate for children's playgrounds for 4 and 5 years of age. They have also agreed that the maximum amount of parental payment is $1150 per year. 3 pst. of family income. It's ambitious and something to reach for us as Norwegian government powers. It's only when we get a combination of good, accessible, flexible kindergartens at a price that people can afford, that we get a real picture of the need. I hope that current and future parental regenerations escape the canoeing path we had to expensive, private day-time moms. Some of the few babysitters I've had have just been associated with problems with babysitting. Studies recently show that a majority of families with young children prefer to have children's playgrounds for their children. I understand that. It makes a lot of sense to be on a step that will ensure that your current and future grandchildren are safe to have children's beds. I wonder, by the way, that child care expenses are often considered pure expenses. For most young children, the nursery is necessary for both mother and father to be out of work. Two in work leads to increased value creation and more tax revenue to the community. To a large extent, child care expenditure is the cost of raising income, as well as their participation and support for good growth conditions for our children. The two most important steps we take today to reach the goal of full child care coverage are to increase state support up to 50 pst. for all kindergartens before 2005 and to initiate work to legislate municipalities on the obligation to develop childcare facilities in cooperation with the local government sector. The majority believe that this will ensure full child care coverage by 2003 and cheaper kindergartens by the state gradually covering 50 pst. of the costs and that the objective for municipalities to cover 30 pst. is passed on. We ask the Government to consider a stronger tool to get the municipalities to cover their share. By 20 pst. we can achieve both monthly reduced prices at all, income-graded rates and by-pass. We are asking the Government to consider the requirement for reduced and graduated rates as the requirement for increased government support. The Committee supports the co-ordination of the provision of childcare facilities to those with special needs. The Committee now sees it as important to provide information on developments in relation to kindergarten as the arena to identify special needs, and to put in action relief measures, and suggests that information on this is provided in connection with the evaluation of cash support. Other speakers from the Labour Party will come up with this question. Everyone has agreed that kindergartens should be run in close cooperation and understanding with the home. A plural – the Labour Party, Right and SV – sees that this may conflict with the purpose paragraph, which says: ‘The nursery shall help to educate the children in accordance with Christian fundamental values.’ The same majority requests that this be provided and assessed in conjunction with the question of the purpose paragraph in the school. The Norwegian Teachers' Department is disappointed with the kindergarten setting because no changes are made when it comes to staffing, I read in the newspaper. If that's right, it's alarming if they don't look at a billion-dollar bet to increase kindergarten expansion and reduce parental pay as a lift. In addition, the claim is incorrect. The majority see an OECD report that points out that Norway has a low proportion of out-of-school educators compared to other Scandinavian countries. And the plural prays to the Government. Assess whether this part should be increased to increase the number of entries by adding letters in the works a plan of measures for recruitment and stability in the kindergarten to assess moving the recruitment standards from regulation to law Multiple entries have been added that the permissions of the kindergartens should be eartaged until full expansion has been completed. Another plurality aims to transfer the rights to framework funding once full child care coverage and community development obligations have been achieved. And a third plural suggests that the issue of transition to framework funding is so extensive that it has to be submitted to the Storting in its own way. In 1999, 3 200 new kindergartens were built. The target was 7,500. The Committee therefore asks for an assessment of the impact of the incentive effect. The Committee also asks for an assessment of the means of ensuring the space of disabled children in both public and private kindergartens. The Committee has noticed that it is 50 pst. Of the kindergartens in the country are private, most parents driven, and we want solutions where equivalent public and private kindergartens can live side by side. Commercial kindergartens are not particularly widespread, but it is important that the government follows developments closely. Municipalities must also play an important role in the future. Different multiplicity stands behind comments about cooperation between municipalities and private kindergartens, including cooperation agreements with mutual responsibilities to identify needs and design a variety of childcare facilities – a work that should be professionalised and which should be developed to assess quality A plurality, the Labour Party and the Right, opposes the obligation for municipalities to enter into cooperation agreements with private kindergartens, but goes in with the centre in order to draw up a model for cooperation agreements between municipalities and private kindergartens. Some questions will come back to Stortinget. So the goal is kindergarten for everyone who wants it and at an affordable price. All, with the exception of the Progress Party, will benefit from the funds proposed by the Bondevik Government to be transferred to the municipalities as free resources, partly to finance a stepping up of the earmarked funds. In addition, the Centre and SV have comments on the transfer of additional free resources to municipalities. The Labour Party has been increasing transfers to municipalities monthly over the last few years, but we do not want to create expectations that those who have not done their job in the kindergarten sector will be presented with extra funds. The transfers should also be proportionate to the objective criterion. We look forward to a comprehensive assessment of this in connection with the inclusion issues in the framework proposal. It is not correct that the Workers' Party is involved in a joint comment with SV on page 26 The setting is later enriched, and the Stortinget's office is made aware of this. Elles The Workers' Party is committed to our program-based goal of free core time once the goal of full child care coverage has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e533	The President will state that she is not satisfied with the fact that the Council of State responsible is not present. She hopes that the Stortinget will continue to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He then gets to listen the stronger after what is happening, so he can tell the council what she has missed. However, the President has been informed that it will not take long before the Council of State responsible for this matter is present. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e538	The representative Ausdal Starrfelt and the Workers' Party are very busy with three things. It's full babysitting, it's lower parental pay and increased availability. Starrfelt is also involved in the issue of economics. I understand that she believes that kindergartens are too expensive, or that the parents can't afford it. There were two points she made in that connection. My question is then: is it perhaps that we have such restrictive laws and regulations for kindergarten that it is so costly that kindergartens become too expensive? Or is it that the Workers' Party has imposed so high taxes and taxes that people can't afford to use the kindergartens, which is the point of the statements that come here? Then I'm going to challenge the Starrfeld representative in relation to the claims that come about one-income families versus two-income families and tax incomes, because that's not right. A one-income family with DKK 400000 in income actually pays up to NOK 30000 more in tax than two income families with the same income. The reality is that one income family with NOK 300000 of income pays the same in taxes as two income families with NOK 100000 more in income. My challenge is: will the Starrfelt representative do something about offsetting the tax differences between one and two income families, if it is a purpose to improve the ability of parents to pay for childcare services?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e545	It is quite right, as the representative Sandberg says, that the Labour Party highlights full child care coverage, lower parental pay and increased accessibility. It could be that kindergarten is too expensive and that people cannot afford it. But it's not for animals in the sense that we mean that we have a standard of kindergarten that makes it for animals. It may well be that there is little to be gained from improving the effectiveness of the kindergarten sector as well. But now the Prime Minister just said this week in Bergen that we should have more public input. And many of them will, among other things. come in the nursery sector. So if the representative Sandberg thinks they should get it a little bit free, so that one can have fewer people and a little bit less professionals, then he won't get the Labour Party's support. But as one has listened in this room and in other contexts, it is such that the Labour Party wants to renew the public sector. In that context, you have to go through the code. There may be some regulations for kindergartens that are complicated and that take time and resources away from the kids, that we should look at. But I have a feeling that the representative Sandberg wants me to answer something other than that. When it relates to the tax income of the owner- and the two-income family, I would like to emphasize the claim to Sandberg on the right-hand side. It's like when you're a family carer and your spouse doesn't work, there's an extra tax deduction. And if that would lead to one paying more tax, it must indicate that the one working very much, and the other working very little. That's something we want to get away from. We want mother and father to work relatively as much, and have equal responsibility for the kids. It doesn't happen if one creates a system that favors the income family, so that the one is home and the other is going to be at work. And so far it turns out that whoever's home, which is usually mother. It's a bad equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e554	I would first like to thank the case spokesperson for an active commitment to managing the kindergarten message. That's good. There is a lot in the setting where the deal is cross-political. I have a question for case spokesman Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld when it comes to it with an obligation to draw up cooperation agreements with private kindergartens. It's a multiple. by the Centre, the Right and the Workers' Party, in favour of working out a template in cooperation with private kindergartens. But the centre party is in favour of a statutory obligation to enter into cooperation agreements with private kindergartens to ensure that we also have a lack of kindergarten in the long term when this is to be incorporated into the framework bill, as the Labour Party also agrees. What is the background to the fact that the Labour Party will not legitimise such an obligation in relation to private kindergartens? That's one question. The second is the amount of municipal support for kindergartens in the future. Now a multiple goes in to increase the state bill for kindergartens to 50 pst. And I think that's positive. But there's a note in the Right and Workers' Party settings that they support the goal that municipalities should cover 30 pst. the cost of both public and private kindergartens and their assessment of measures to this end. So the sum is going to be 50 pst. Plus 30 pst, which is equal to 80 pst. State and municipal benefits. Is this not to give expectations about measures that do not have the possibility to comply, as none of them outline that they will come with financial means to ensure that they do? I think the parent payment will be much more acceptable if we manage to get the state transfers at least 70 pst. The reality today is that a lot of places aren't there. We'll get the state transfers up to 70 pst. – at least – at least there will be much better than it is today. But here, the Labour Party is giving new expectations, without sketching out economic measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e565	I thank you for your brilliance. Why don't we have a duty to work out cooperation agreements to secure the deficiency? There has now been a trend towards municipalities seeing themselves more and more likely to cooperate with private kindergartens. That development we think will strengthen. And when they get a tool in a central template, we also think it'll be more like around the country, which I think is good. To get such a template also wants the private nursery organizations. But when we talk about a simpler Norway, we don't have to try to create too many new rules. For us in the Working Party, it's quite unnatural to legislate this. But we think it is good that close cooperation will be established between municipal and private kindergartens. You will be told very much about this in the configuration. Yeah, we want 80 pst. public funding of kindergartens and 20 pst. parental financing. Centre and SV promise more free money to municipalities. We say it in another way. We want to influence the municipalities to spend a greater part of their money on kindergartens, because it's so very important for the kids' growing-up conditions. Not least, it is important in relation to the disadvantaged young, who have an offer that can solve problems that they initially have. We have this as a goal, and goals create expectations. But we can't let have goals because if we don't dare create expectations. We've also started a project to get more free resources to our municipalities. Now we have over a hundred ear-marked additions, and our goal is to halve them in four to five years, that is, to give the municipalities more free money. In addition, the municipal sector has been providing much more funding in the last few years. And I would have liked to have seen that we got an overview of the relationship between incomes to the municipalities and how they prioritise the kindergartens, because I'm pretty sure it's not just about the ability to prioritize, but also about the will.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e576	I am very pleased that the Right Party and the Workers' Party have come together to increase the State aid to 50 pst. and through it signals that the parental payment is going to go down and the private kindergartens are going to have a better economy. The main problem in the kindergarten sector in recent years has been the lack of municipal support for private kindergartens, contrary to what the Stortinge has previously said. In many areas, therefore, I am very pleased with the profile this message has received, and the role played by the new fractional leader and the new minister in the matter. But there is one area in which I feel that the Workers' Party is doing the knitting well far, and it was the case that the case-rapporteur concluded his speech that the goal is 'free core time'. So this puts the Working Party at the end. In fact, the nursery financing we have today means that we will have a cost framework of approx. DKr 13.5 billion in kindergartens in public transfers. In addition, the parent pays. If it is the case that the SV and the Workers' Party were to have an impact on their claim for free core time, I would like to know a little more about what the Workers' Party is putting into this concept of core time. Is it four hours in the middle of the day? Is it four to five hours? Does this mean that we should somehow give up 5-6 billion dollars by introducing such a reform? In fact, that's what would be the price tag if you said that this is going to cover the public, where parents are not going to pay anything for a short-term offer in kindergarten. And if the short-term space is free of charge, does Ausdal Starrfelt believe that it will help more people choose short-term children's garden instead of full-time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e583	It is nice when we in this room can occasionally give some praise to each other. I have experienced the cooperation with Right as very constructive and very focused. We have the ability to be agreed even if we know that in the next turn we might disagree again. It's one of Greece's representatives. We have this program party with free core time. The Labour Party has had it in its programs for a few years -- I can't think exactly how long -- so there's nothing we're leaning on. Now it fits like that in this context that it finally came, but it's not a jersey. But that's not the goal now, now the goal is to get full child-care coverage and lower prices, so that full child-care coverage is real and not just technical because prices are so high that people don't look for child-care facilities. And I think the more people get into kindergarten, the clearer it will become for parents that kindergarten is a good offer, and the more important it will be to secure everyone – at least all those who want it, and who, for different reasons, may not see their advice to ask for it if it costs anything – access to any nursery time. Four hours have been called, but we shall return to the number of hours that it shall be, whether the offer shall be every day, or whether it shall be a few days a week. I think it's a few years till we get there. But we think it can be a very good offer, and it's not like you can't find an example around the world in both very cheap and partly free places and a babysitting that's both 90 and 95 pst. I don't think we're going to do anything if we in Norway are going to have more kids available for kindergarten. What's interesting is that when people get babysitting, they're very naked. I meet many grandfathers – not quite randomly, at age – and they think kindergarten is very good. They would never have said that 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e590	So the line change is over. The President notes that the Minister for Children and Family is now present, and is satisfied with it, but will stress that the Stortinget is now in an interview phase where it is difficult to predict how long the various debates take. The President will ask the members of the Government to pay particular attention to this, so that they are present when the Stortinges deal with their affairs. That is an absolute requirement of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e594	Kindergarten Communication is a comprehensive document promoting a range of measures to achieve full coverage of needs. Now, the terms ‘needing’ and ‘full child care’ are used for each other, so it is a little difficult to conclude on what you want in this way. In other words, the notification is a wish of the majority of the committee to have as many children as possible in kindergarten and under public care. Based on 1998 accounting statistics and development plans for 1999-2000, the total cost of the kindergarten sector is estimated to be DKK 12.4 billion in 2000. Furthermore, one expects a fully-developed kindergarten sector with at the base of 213,000 places will cost 13.4 billion kroner. Of these, the majority now want the state to cover 50 pst. The majority therefore want the kindergarten sector to receive a total of more than DKK 1 billion in order to establish the last places necessary for full needs coverage. Based on the intentions of cost allocation in the nursery sector, this means that the State should cover the majority, the municipality and the parent payment the rest. The main instrument for the majority of the Committee is to achieve full needs coverage, even if it is someone who uses the expression full child-care coverage. The public funding of the nursery sector, the objective of a cost-sharing between the state, the municipality and the parents of 40-30-30, has never been achieved, so this objective is now changing. This is also the driving force of the other batches to reduce parental own-payment. With respect to reporting, I don't believe in anything. Together with all the other objectives of the majority, the price of a kindergarten is simply going to be more expensive. What I'm saying here is that the increased public support will only help to cover the cost increases that kindergartens will have in the future. We already know today that many kindergartens run up to 10-20 pst. cheaper than most public kindergartens. So now the majority takes action that makes all kindergartens equal cost. If it's really the size of the parental payment that worries the majority, well, then the same majority says that the parents' ability to pay is too low. Actually, I'm quite happy that this confession comes, especially from the Workers' Party. It is really no wonder that such a concession comes when we see all the taxes and taxes on families with children. After all, it is a paradox that the majority first reduces child families with large extra costs, and then, in the next round, transfer the income it brings into the treasury to different industries, services and care services so that the same parents can afford to make use of them. The Progress Party wants a family policy based on volunteering and freedom of choice. Today's kindergarten policy does not give parents enough freedom of choice. The Progress Party wants to give parents greater freedom of choice by making use of all the subsidies to kindergartens that exist and add them to their child's rights. The purpose of this is inter alia: to eliminate the discrimination of today's system against parents who make the choice of value at home with their children. This is also the only way to find proper needs coverage, or full child care coverage, which is one of the main objectives of this message. While the other batches do not find the need covered before 75 pst. or 85 pst. Of all the children are in kindergarten, so the Advance Party wants to figure out the right thing from a real choice for their parents. This must necessarily be done by actively selecting parents from their own assessments, rather than from a continuous propaganda from Norwegian Teachers' Team, the Workers' Party & Co. The progress party has partly succeeded in this, by providing cash support to the one- and two-year-olds. Although this was not the optimal solution, it can at least be called fair. The Progress Party wants cash support for all children under compulsory schooling, except for those from zero to one year old, where the Progress Party wants an equal payment for all children. We also want to review and liberalise the Kindergarten Act – that is, to create greater diversity in the kindergarten sector. A collection, which I have referred to here, of all the public transfers to the families of children in the child-care area together with the liberalisation of the kindergarten law will, in the view of the Progress Party, give parents greater freedom of choice. Parents who need some form of organised childcare can then choose between traditional kindergartens, family kindergartens, kindergartens, day-care centres or traineeships. As we also write in our note, I believe to find coverage for the following claim: that there is a hidden agenda in the various political parties, stakeholder organisations and various professionals that the public should not only rule, but also take over the nursery market on the basis of a goal of compulsory kindergarten for all children under school age. I have said this before, and I have kind of provoked not least the Workers' Party. But in fact, I think what comes out in the message, and as it was confirmed, is programmed in the Workers' Party, namely, about free core time, is another step and a strengthening of my claims. This is a development that the Progress Party is taking away from. I have to be allowed to say that it is a little too clear that some organisations, professionals and press groups have greater impact than others here in the house, and it has clearly been put on the agenda of individual parties here in the house. I believe it is a direct danger signal when the Workers' Party and the Right now signal that they will legislate an obligation for the municipalities to provide nursery facilities. I must honestly admit that I do not understand the priorities when you want to legislate on something that is really not necessary, while the same parties do not want this instrument regarding benefits that are imperative, such as health care and care for the elderly. If I don't understand, I find that these parties do not have the will to help sick and old, but find it right to support young, healthy, up-and-coming people who can and should, if the Labour Party allows them to, take care of themselves and arrange for their own family to be organized according to their own needs and their own finances. This is, of course, a new step in what I have said before is the path to compulsory kindergarten and a further transfer of influence towards the children from the parents to the public child care employee. I can't see that the parents' freedom of choice is guaranteed, at least not when we're talking about coordinated admission, as the conclusion is with today's decision, and as the central government suggested. Such a public admission would hinder the diversity and flexibility that everyone really wants. The individual approved nursery should be responsible for both offer and admission. Only in this way can we have competition and an adjustment between supply and demand. The central government and the Workers' Party appeared earlier to agree that the commercial operation of kindergartens should be banned. This now seems to be changing. It is gratifying for the Progress Party, as this would only increase costs while creating a narrower range of offers on the kindergarten market. And I ask, what's the difference between having your own income from working with children and having a profit in running institutions that work with children? Finally, I would just like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party that are in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e620	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e625	For the Workers' Party, kindergarten policy is important, simply because the Workers' Party believes a good kindergarten is a good offer for parents who are under education or in work, as we believe kindergarten meets the children's needs. I think it is remarkable how little time the representative Sandberg spent in his post highlighting the children's needs. What went on again was the parents' freedom of choice; it was always the parents who were in focus and to a small extent the children. A few words can be summed up about the position of the Progress Party on this big message, and it is liberalisation and release that we want less public intervention. And then I have to get into what's my question. The working party believes that kindergarten is an important tool for children with special needs, and I think for example. on children with a minority background, children with disabilities and children with difficult growing-up conditions. How does the Progress Party believe that less municipal influence over kindergartens should help these children to meet their needs? Or is it perhaps that the Progress Party is not concerned with this group of children at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e630	I will first be allowed to say that the answer to all the questions I received now lies in my post. But it is clear that it will be a little difficult for representatives of the Workers' Party to capture the message in a post when they have the attitude – as I stressed in my post – that the public should take care of the children. The Labour Party has therefore set up a policy over 25 years based on intervention in private life and taking over the task of parents. The Advancement Party attaches great importance to – and I put great emphasis on in my post – the fact that we trust the parents and want to bring back to parents the responsibility of caring for the best of their own children, rather than that we politicians should in a way sit on our high horse and say that we know best how to behave their children. The representative was also involved with the different groups. In the Progress Party, we have made many amendments to strengthen the social network on which the Workers' Party has not participated. We think the groups involved here are being captured by the social network. And if it's not done, there's something wrong with the system. But again, with regard to both the groupings mentioned by the representative and all the other children, it is the responsibility of parents to ensure that their own children receive the best offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e637	I can't quite follow the thinking of the Progress Party. It is clear that parents are responsible for their children and for the delivery of them, but parents depend on help. When they are e.g. in education or working life, they need supervision, a provision of care for their children, and they depend on a good supply so that they can feel at ease that their children are well-being. The Progress Party focuses in a way that the public should not interfere with the private sphere. No, but the public should be able to make it easier for us to have a good society. And then having a good babysitting for all the thousands of children in Norway who need it is very important. It's a good investment. In the option option, the Progress Party has a comment where they say the following: ‘... the action plan has the effect of overshadowing both the needs of children and the needs of parents, taking into account employees in public kindergartens.’ It is important that we have good kindergartens, that we have quality in kindergartens, and that we have staff with skills. There is a lot to say for the children where they are. If the Progress Party is concerned that the children should have a safe supply of care, I find it very difficult to understand the policy – that the public should not be involved in and support for a good childcare provision and ensure that we have both a well-qualified staff and adequate economy for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e651	It's a little surprising that the representative Molvær Grimstad comes up with such a challenge in relation to this. I actually thought that the Christian People's Party was a little in line with the Advancement Party in terms of the danger of public intervention in the private home. But that relationship seems to have changed through the process of treating the kindergarten message. That's interesting. But I'll try again to give feedback on the content of what we're saying. Yes, the kindergarten should be a good offer, and it is generally a good offer. But I don't think the offer will get any worse if the parents get to make the real choice, as opposed to politicians making the choice as to what is a good kindergarten. I trust that the parents will choose the nursery service that has the quality, content and competence they want for their children. We politicians don't have to sit down and decide. And that's the way – yes, we actually agree – that over half of the kindergartens today are operated privately. I believe the representative of Molvær Grimstad that there is something wrong with the 50 pst. private kindergartens and their contents and quality? Indirectly, it's kind of what's being said here. What's the point of looking at the law in its entirety is that the Progress Party sees the evolution in that we're now going to have a principle of equality for all the kids. All shall offer the same remuneration, all shall have the same employment conditions, all shall have the same competence. It will eliminate what is the goal for all, namely a diversity within kindergartens, that parents get a variety of kindergartens to choose from, rather than that each and every nursery on each and every knuckle has the same content, the same offer and the same appearance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e660	First of all, I have to correct the claim that the Right will legislate the obligations of the municipalities in relation to the kindergartens. That's not right. The right assumes that the municipalities assume their responsibilities without this being legalised. One in the longest layer will avoid legalizing this right. Moreover, I must say that I am a little surprised that a debate on kindergartens by the Progress Party is so much about the economy of parents, when a majority in the Grand Duchy wants to facilitate the possibility for the largest possible child to actually have the opportunity to go to kindergarten, that as much as possible will have the right to choose. And if parents are going to pay the entire nursery, if the public isn't going to go in and contribute, large parent groups are being excluded from a kindergarten selection. It's usually among the small children's parents that we find the groups that have the narrowest economy, because it's when you have young children that you have study debts and high start-up costs at the same time. So it's a public responsibility to facilitate as much as possible the possibility of choosing a nursery facility. I also think there is reason to point out that part of those who have the most difficult economy are the multicultural parents. And the Progress Party has actually made a proposal earlier that parents who do not make sure that their children learn Norwegian before they begin school should almost be deprived of care for their children; they believe it is a care failure. At the same time, the Progress Party is not interested in facilitating these parents to have a well-adapted offer for their children through kindergartens. It is a double-hell in the thinking of the Progress Party that I have problems understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e669	I just have to open up my complaint that I had a problem in my script in relation to the Right and this with the municipality's obligation to provide nursery facilities. I think I fixed it up in the post, but of course it was a mistake. When it was now very important from the Right Representative that this should be given as much opportunity as possible to choose a nursery place regardless of income, I was so much involved in my post. Here I thought maybe the Right would agree. After all, I questioned whether it might have been all the other expenses that the parents were charged through taxes and taxes, which was why they could not afford to choose kindergarten. But if that's the goal for the Right too, that as much as possible go into kindergarten – and it also says a little bit about that in the message, that increased offers will, of course, mean more children in kindergarten – it's just to do a grip and pay parents to put the children in kindergarten. Then we'll be sure to get most of them in – if that's what the goal is. And in a way, you do that too. The right is by increasing the country's share from 40 pst. to 50 pst. in order to return funds to the families with children, which we have collected in advance through various types of taxes and taxes. What it might have been a point to figure out is the real need of the parents. We know that up to 70 pst. of parents having kindergarten as their first choice when choosing care for their children. And it is clear that we should take this seriously. But I don't think the 70 pst. would have changed if we had allowed the kindergarten sector to drive itself without political involvement through laws, regulations, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e683	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e686	Being able to deliver children in a safe and good nursery when you are going to work or need supervision for other reasons is too many young children’s parents of invaluable value. The children are the dearest we have, and knowing that they have a good care supply, and that they are happy, is important. The central government is promoting a childcare service because it was important to see childcare policy on the agenda and to get measures that ensure full coverage of needs. The message received criticism when it was presented – among others. because it did not contain proposals for individual, statutory rights to kindergarten, and because there was too little funding for kindergarten courses, the Labour Party stated its female political leader, Karita Bekkemelm Orheim. When we got the government change, there was a certain tension about whether the employee partisan would drag the message or bring an additional message. None of the parts happened, and the kindergarten message suddenly becomes a good basis for building further child care policies. Of course, we are pleased that the kindergarten message was placed for handling in Stortinget. The Kindergarten Communication sets out the following objectives for a good childcare policy: kindergarten for all children who want the nursery in the community that integrates pedagogics and care a nursery also for those with special needs a kindergarten that is varied, flexible and user friendly This is a wide resolution option. It's important to have a good babysitting service for everyone who wants it. In the next few years, it is important that: the work of ensuring kindergarten as a quality offering for all children, the municipalities are further guided the development of their responsibility for the sector we are getting more equal treatment of municipal and private kindergartens the development is completed From 1987 to 1998, there has been a doubling of the number of private kindergartens in Norway, from 1,502 kindergartens in 1987 to 3,169 in 1998. The number of public kindergartens has risen from 2,277 to 3,009 kindergartens – an increase of 700 kindergartens. This shows that the initiatives that have been taken by private individuals have been enormously important in order to get the childcare facilities we have today. Still missing space. By comparing the actual number of kindergartens in municipalities with the number declared for full needs coverage, Aplan has assessed the number of places left before having full needs coverage. The survey shows that this figure amounts to 25 000 new kindergartens for the 1–5 age group at national level. One estimates that one will achieve full needs coverage for children over 3 years of age during the current year, and the aim is to provide full needs coverage for children under 3 years of age during 2003. An assumption that municipalities draw up plans for childcare services based on up-to-date needs figures. There is a special responsibility for municipalities planning a holistic and effective childcare sector where the objective is the best possible provision for the inhabitants of each municipality. According to Kinderhagelova, municipalities have that responsibility, whether the ownership and operation of the nursery are private or municipal. The ear-marked state support for kindergartens has been the most important government tool to achieve full needs coverage. It has always been the intention that, when this objective was achieved, the ear-marked surplus should be replaced by a framework financing, as in other important areas where the municipalities are responsible for the specific service provision of the population. The Christian People's Party has set out more requirements than being replaced by a framework funding to ensure a good, flexible and diverse provision of childcare facilities. First of all, we want to establish an obligation for municipalities to provide nursery facilities for all families who want to do so. This is in order to ensure that family members receive an equivalent supply of services in the nursery sector, whatever municipality they live in. Secondly, we want a statutory obligation for municipalities to enter into cooperation agreements with private kindergartens that are part of the plans for the nursery sector in each municipality. Local authorities must not refuse to enter into cooperation agreements because the private nursery is run on the basis of alternative pedagogy or alternative life views. The central administration stated in the message that the private kindergartens in the future nursery sector should be an integral part of the childcare provision in the municipalities and that they should be included in the plans for full needs coverage. Private kindergartens and municipal kindergartens must be guaranteed equivalent treatment in relation to economic conditions. Thirdly, at the time the kindergarten bill is incorporated into the framework bill, the total public funding shall be at least 70 pst. The parental payment should not exceed 30 pst. after the kindergarten bill has been transferred to the frame bill. The centre party believes it is important that a level of government sees the whole sector as a whole. It is clear from the nursery note that the care of the private kindergartens will weigh heavily by including the nursery care allowance into the income system and that one will consider the specific measures for the private kindergartens. Children's gardening review theme is measures to ensure full coverage of needs, a more acceptable parental benefit, more non-discrimination between municipal and private kindergartens; This is a solid plurality in the committee that's busy, and it's very positive. The parent payment is too high in many kindergartens. The goal of our state being 40 pst. of the child care costs and the municipality and parents 30 pst. location, not reached. Many municipalities don't provide enough support for their kindergartens, especially the private kindergartens get little municipal support. In private kindergartens, the parental payment covered 46,4 pst. of operating expenditure in 1997. The municipality's contribution was 6.6 pst. of the income of private kindergartens, while in municipal kindergartens the income of municipalities was 27 p.m. and the parental payment of 29 pst. The numbers give a picture that municipal and private kindergartens have a very different funding base. Therefore, targeted measures are important in order to achieve a more acceptable level of parental payment. The Kindergarten notification provided targeted measures to enable municipalities to take responsibility for the rest of the development and measures to reduce parental payments — in particular measures aimed at allowing municipalities to increase their transfers to private kindergartens. The Kindergarten Communication proposed an extra €1.2 billion up to 2003 in order to improve the financial environment and ensure full coverage of needs. In the committee management, the majority, all the non-participating Progress Party, entered to gradually increase the state's share of child care expenditure from 40 pst. 50 pst, instead of increasing the frame transfers. There is a broad political plurality, all the unbecoming Progress Party, which points out that it must be a goal of future pediatrics policy that parental pay is at such a low level that all parents can afford the payment for suspension that is required. All the parties to the committee, except for the Progress Party, ask the Government to provide immediate advice on an obligation for municipalities to offer children's facilities to anyone who wants to do so. One sees this as a means of achieving the objective of full needs coverage, and this must be done in understanding with the municipalities about the economy and the timetable for implementation. The Christian People's Party is in favour of municipalities having a statutory obligation to provide nursery facilities. The working party has gradually reduced the exposure of an individual right to kindergarten after they came into government. Realities have reached them; now they defend the nursery message, which they so strongly criticized. A solid majority in the committee sees it as a goal that public and private kindergartens are largely treated in a non-discriminatory manner. This means that demands must be made for private childcare facilities, for example. integration into municipal kindergarten plans; A multiple request from the Government, in cooperation with the parties involved, to draw up a template for a cooperation agreement between municipalities and private kindergartens. This work is urgent, because the situation of many private kindergartens is serious. Otherwise, we have noted the response of the Council of State to the Committee when it comes to these cooperation agreements, where it says: ‘Children’s gardens, which today form part of the kindergarten offer in the municipality, will naturally be part of the kindergarten plan in the municipality.’ This is what I expect the council will follow. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that we also in the future have a varied childcare facility, both in terms of educational content, life views, types of operations and upkeep time. Infant parents must be able to choose care and work in different combinations. It is an important challenge to get more newly-educated preschool teachers to take up work in kindergarten and to stay in the profession. We are pleased with the plans that have been put into effect, and it is important that they are followed up. In the setting on page 10, there is an error. The center part is in a note that we're not going to be in. It is on the destination paragraph, where it reads the following: ‘The majority have agreed that kindergartens should be run in close cooperation and understanding with the homes, and see that this may conflict with the purpose paragraph which says: ‘Barnhagen shall help to instruct the children according to Christian fundamental values.’ This is a note that should be written by the Working Party, Right and SV. The central part has a corresponding to the one in the second column of page 10, which Ola T. Loans will be added later. Finally, Active Groups operate lobbying when Stortinget handles issues that apply to them. The kindergarten message is mostly about children, but we have no children in the gallery with parkdress, bucket and spade. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party sees their needs. The Christian People's Party has a strong commitment that the families who want it will get a good and safe childcare provision. It is an important investment for the future of children. Bringing children in the nursery, with a snorted nose, sand in the head and brilliant baby's eye, it's happiness for us kindergarten parents!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e801	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e804	The Workers' Party is pleased that the Christian People's Party is with us in the vast majority of the questions in this kindergarten announcement – in fact, most of them are not about cash support in some way. We are particularly pleased that the center supports a stepping-up plan for 50 pst. State aid by 2005. In addition, the Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, is pointing out that the municipal economy needs to be strengthened if the municipalities are to have a real opportunity to expand as necessary. But does this mean that the Christian People's Party has information that shows that it is only the municipality's ability to develop kindergartens that are lacking where the offer is poorly developed, or can it have something to do with priority? If it has only financial capacity, it will be captured by the different criteria for transfers to municipalities. But if there is a lack of willingness to prioritize, a consequence of the comments made by the Christian People's Party is that those who have not given priority to kindergarten development are rewarded with greater state framework transfers. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e811	When we look back at who has taken the challenge of building kindergartens lately, it's mainly the private kindergartens that have taken responsibility. And the initiative they have taken is very positive. The municipalities have seen that private people have taken a great deal of responsibility. We think the municipalities have to take a greater responsibility than they've done. But one cannot ignore the fact that in some municipalities it is linked to a tight community economy – one cannot afford to take that expansion as one should. For this reason, the central government, when presenting its proposal, proposed targeted measures to strengthen the local economy in order to take a residual expansion while one in a way being given a statutory obligation to provide childcare facilities. So there was a requirement that hung in with this. The Committee has now entered into the proceedings to increase the eartag's appeal to 50 pst. That's a good way to do it, because one then increases everyone's appetite; the private kindergartens will also get the same 50 pst, so that one can strengthen them. But what we're referring to in the comments in the settings is that it's clear that the municipalities must have a defensive economy in general to be able to take all the legal tasks we're going to adopt here on the Stortinget. So I'm actually surprised at the Workers' Party's remark, which now says that the goal is for the state and the municipality to bear 80 pst. of the cost of child care coverage, without signaling that one will bring a penny more in funds, when we know that the municipalities are now getting a tough priority to get to 70 pst. total in municipal and state transfers. So here I actually feel that it's the Worker's Party that agrees to give new expectations, more than the Center Party. I'm excited about how that priority will be from the Working Party in the future, when one at the same time signals that one will have free kernel time. So here we're excited about what the Labour Party budget will look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e820	The representative of the Christian People's Party praises the kindergartens and the work that the kindergartens do. There we all agree, they do a very good job for children. What we might disagree with is who's really going to decide what's best for our kids -- whether they're the authorities, or whether they're the parents. The party of progress has the greatest confidence that it is the parents who know best. So a little bit to the specific question that the representative also raised in connection with the previous question, about strengthening the municipal economy in relation to kindergarten development. The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV point out in a joint remark that there should be a real possibility of development at the necessary rate. I noticed that the representative from the former central government said we should cancel the municipal debt by a certain number of billions. Will the representative of the Christian People's Party clarify what is needed in order to have a good enough economy for the expansion that is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e827	The representative, Bredvold, was concerned with the relationship between the authorities and parents. We are confident that parents will have the best possible arrangements for the child’s oversight. There are some of us with the Progress Party. Compared to the cash support and the ability to choose between cash support for the one- and two-year-olds and kindergartens, we are in line. But we think the authorities have to make sure that it's a real choice; it's not as long as we don't have enough kindergartens. That's why the state has to take its responsibility, so that anyone who wants to have a nursery place will get it. We're not in favour of an obligation for children to go to kindergarten, but as a possibility. And we think of it as a very important provision of supervision and care for young children's parents. Therefore, it is good that we have such a lot of cross-political agreement – although the Progress Party differed on a part of this when we deal with the Kindergarten message. The comment in relation to strengthening the municipal economy points out that there is a correlation between the economy of municipalities and the performance of the services we use. We might say that some of it's about will, but here it's a combination, and that's why we want to combine it with economic instruments and laws. We want to control it to ensure kindergartens for those who want it. But we can't ignore the fact that this requirement from Stortinget on the same line as some other demands, makes the municipalities have to have the economy they need in order to realize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e836	I am very pleased that the centre parties in the last round chose to turn their backs on their own kindergarten message and go in for increased state aid. What I find a little strange is that while the central parties are now signaling a willingness to increase State aid to 50 pst., they are quite categorical about rejecting an assessment of whether stepping up State aid can be a way to ensure a good financing model for kindergartens. The representative of Molvær Grimstad said here instead that it is the private people who have primarily taken responsibility in the development phase over the last few years. And then when they've met with 7 pst. support from the municipalities, while the Stortingen’s clear objective has been 30 p.m., I find it a little strange that the centre parties now choose to say that everything should go into the framework of the year 2003. That makes me also have to deal with another question. The central parties now go in to increase the state subsidy to 50 p.m., to hang on the Right and the Workers' Party agreed. There we say that this is going to happen until 2005, while the centre parties state very clearly that they want a transition to the framework from 2003. This means that you want to step up State aid until 2003 to 50 pst.? And if it's the economy representative Molvær Grimstad is worried about when she confronts the Workers' Party and Right with her vision, I have to ask, how will she do it, with such a rapid escalation as the Centre parties now add up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e843	The centre party has not turned its back on its own nursery message, as the representative of Greece here said. In fact, a number of measures have been implemented by the Centre’s government. The nursery news got a lot of criticism when it came, but it's been lying down, and there's a solid majority in the Targeted Measures Committee to bring down the parental payment, to get full needs coverage, and to have a qualitative kindergarten in the future. There's a whole deal about it, so the center part has had too much impact on its policy. When it comes to one of the points that have been slightly changed, which are going to increase the government bill to 50 pst, we in the committee have gone through an assessment to channel these funds in another way, but the goals are still firm. It's important to get there. If the representative of Greece listened to my post, he would have heard that I had more demands compared to having this included. We insist that we want it into the framework when it's full needs coverage. It's very important to bring with it. And we expect that to happen in 2003, but we see it as a clear requirement: full needs coverage should be first. State and local authority shall contribute together with at least 70 pst. of the expenses of the kindergartens, and we want a statutory obligation to provide nursery facilities and a statutory obligation to enter into cooperation agreements with private kindergartens, which Right does not go into. So here we have a series of measures to make sure that those who want to do so will have a nursery place and to ensure that the private kindergartens in the future. Here is the solid requirement that must first be followed up, before we put it into the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e852	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e855	I can then see that the Christian People's Party will transfer the money to the framework, but not until they have put in place a number of laws and restrictions that will ensure that the municipalities are as tied up as if they had gone into another form of funding. I feel that it is more tidy to go in for a purely price-funded arrangement, where the money follows the child. The reconciliation between the Right and the Working Party on the Kindergarten Communication will ensure lower parental payments, increased development to achieve the goal of full needs coverage and a better and more varied childcare provision. In particular, the reconciliation will help to ensure the continued operation and expansion of private kindergartens. The kindergarten sector is currently that part of the publicly funded welfare offer where the element of private operation is the largest. Today, private kindergartens account for half of the total nursery provision, and the majority of the new kindergartens in the last ten years have come to private kindergartens. The size has previously foreseen a cost sharing for kindergartens, the 40-30-30 model. This objective is mainly met for the municipal kindergartens, but not for the private. On average, the support of the municipalities for the private kindergartens covers only approx. 8 pst. of the costs. The reason is a lack of willingness in many municipalities to provide financial support for private kindergartens. In private kindergartens, the average parent payment is about 50 pst. of the costs, against approx. 30 pst. in municipal areas, despite the fact that the level of costs in private kindergartens is significantly below the cost level in municipal areas. There are several reasons for the difference in the level of costs. Children with special needs have more room in municipal kindergartens. The majority now want to make it easier for private kindergartens to also accommodate children with special needs. However, a crucial reason is also, of course, that lack of municipal support has helped to force more cost-effective operation in private kindergartens. The right is not in favour of a statutory obligation to provide nursery facilities, but we want to put a considerable pressure on the municipalities, and we would like to see a case come back to Stortinget, where you can discuss how to get this done, so that the private kindergartens get their share of municipal support. The private kindergartens have, despite the lack of municipal support, had an economic safety network in the State operating grant. The State grant serves as a clean price of NOK 38 000 per year. children for those under the age of three, and goes to all approved kindergartens, both public and private. Unfortunately, this safety net proposed to Valgerd Reply City Haugland to remove the child care message she submitted before Christmas. The central government proposed to remove the State subsidy and to contribute these funds to the free revenues of municipalities from 2003. In such a situation, private kindergartens would be totally dependent on local authorities' willingness to provide them with financial support. At the same time, through statutory cooperation agreements, municipalities should be able to impose a number of requirements on private kindergartens in addition to the requirements already laid down in the law as a prerequisite for providing municipal support. Right-wing promote proposals for an alternative model to ensure user management, diversity and freedom of choice. On the right, public transfers to kindergartens will be collected at a state-owned price — let the money accompany the child to the nursery parents choose, regardless of whether the nursery is run by the municipalities or private. Such a solution will strengthen the rights and freedom of choice of parents, ensure equal treatment of private and municipal services and facilitate increased diversity and competition in the kindergarten sector. All kindergartens complying with the requirements of the Kindergarten Act should have equal entitlement to support. Public requirements for kindergartens should be laid down by law and should not be the subject of negotiations between municipalities and kindergartens. I'll bring this up to the right. The agreement with the Workers' Party on the Kindergarten Message implies a step forward in this direction. The State grant shall be escalated up to 50 pst. by 2005 at the latest. It will strengthen the element of the pediatric fund price and provide a better and more secure basis for the private operation of kindergartens. During the same period, the Government examined different models of child care funding, including both municipal responsibility and user-driven funding. The right-hand side and the Labour Party continue to take a different view of how the financial instruments should look after full needs have been met. But the reality is that when the central government's arrangement is now rejected and the state grant escalates, this will strengthen the basis for further user-driven financing of the nursery, in line with the Right Order. User-driven funding will facilitate competition between kindergartens in a completely different way from the current system. Private actors will be able to challenge municipal kindergartens on an equal basis. Competition will result in an increased focus on quality and adaptation to the different needs and needs of users with regard to the provision of services. It is also agreed that a common model for cooperation agreements between private kindergartens and municipalities should be drawn up. It is natural that the owners of private kindergartens are actively involved in this work, that the municipalities are involved, and that the department coordinates the work. We must not get into a situation where 433 municipalities produce 433 different cooperation agreements. Through a scheme where the money follows the child, we will strengthen the influence of parents on childcare provision, while ensuring fairness in the distribution of public support between different kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e881	The representative of Greece has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e886	I noticed that the representative of Greece now said that Right would like to see a case of municipal development. I just want to remind you that the Committee's plurality, all with the exception of the Progress Party, is asking the Government to give advice as soon as possible on a matter of duty to the municipalities to offer nursery facilities to anyone who wants it. This shall be understood with the municipalities. When I hear that the Right – there might not have been that much in the post to Greece now – puts a lot of emphasis on private kindergartens, I'm very impressed with what the Right means about the commercial kindergartens. I can't quite do that. It would be interesting for the Storting – at least for me – to know what Right thinks about the commercial kindergartens. Do they think there is a problem if they make some special dividends, or is it entirely OK? So, for the price finance, which we will have a debate about once later, if the Right prefers such a system – and that sounds like they have plans to do. Does the Right have any danger that there may then be major differences between the different kindergartens, and that such a system can facilitate the development of highly publicly funded kindergartens into luxury children's gardens for the rich, that is, that we all support, regardless of how much they praise and allow parents to pay? Thick Right there will be some problem? I know that an answer can be that people aren't willing to pay more, but the willingness to pay is pretty big in many fields with those who have a lot of money, and our kids are important. Seeing Right It would be entirely right if the government lifted NOK 40,000 – $50,000 per. space for luxury private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e896	The replica of Ausdal Starrfelt reminds me of the old sketch on TV where all the little ones went in dark dress and said, "Now everything is going so much better." It was after it was made a little easier for private kindergartens during the Willoch administration. The reality is, and we also agree on the comments on dividends, that there is, first of all, no large commercial kindergarten market in Norway today. But what you can say for sure is that when you get a fully-fledged kindergarten offer, that is, an offer where the need is met, there won't be room to make a lot of money. There won't be any room to set up the price and take out huge dividends. It may be possible that kindergartens have different operating arrangements, that they offer different offers within the package they have, with the same basic funding. So if some kindergartens were to offer food and drink and other – better toys, better educational tools – and the parents are willing to pay for it, I have no big problem with it. But I think it'll be a very small proportion of the kindergartens that can lay down on what Ausdal Starrfelt calls a luxury level. I don't think there's going to be a problem. The important thing is that a kindergarten meets the requirements we have set here in Stortinget, in the form of following the Children's Court Act, and that they have an agreement with the municipalities, on which we say that it will be a common template. As long as it does, I believe that state support should be triggered regardless of whether it is a Steiner nursery, whether it is a private nursery, whether it is a municipal nursery – whether there are different types of kindergarten. The important thing to get full coverage will be that it will also make it easier for parents to be able to apply to their children in different types of kindergartens, either depending on their location or perhaps educational content — depending on the general scheme. That diversity and that freedom of choice, I think, will also be appreciated by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e907	The representative of Greece was in the municipal section, and that one has failed the private kindergartens in relation to support. In this context, Greece said that this has forced efficient operation in private kindergartens. My first question to Greece is then: Do we want to reverse the effective operation when the Right Party and the Workers' Party now increase their share up to 50 pst.? There will be no longer any goal of effectively driving kindergartens as we now increase public transfers. Or will it be as the undersigned said in his statement, that this will only lead to the cost of running kindergartens generally getting higher, and that the parental payment is likely to stay at the same level? The representative of Greece was also in charge of a single price, and in this context he says that he wants to collect the public transfers into the subsidy pot. A short question here: is it that the Right wants to withdraw the transfers to the municipalities that are already in the framework? It's a little bit difficult to get exact figures on it, but there's a place between 3 and 4 billion dollars being added to the local authorities' framework for the age groups involved. The third concerns the joint model of cooperation agreement. I would like to challenge the representative of Greece a little bit about it. What should such a common schedule of cooperation agreements contain? And will this be a proper step in relation to what the representative also places on the agenda, namely the diversity and flexibility of kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e916	I don't think an increased state aid for kindergartens, and then I think especially about the private ones, will make them less cost-effective. The background for this is, as the representative Sandberg is also familiar with – among others. It was pointed out in the State budget last year – that 14 p.m. of the private kindergartens are on the brink of bankruptcy, and the reality is that the parental payment must be kept at an excessive level, above 50 pst. in some kindergartens, which makes kindergartens necessarily have to operate very efficiently. But what I can hope for, and what I want to hope for, is that if we get a priced funding, the municipal kindergartens will be more effective. Because there's quite a difference when it costs $18,000 for a small children's seat in a municipal kindergarten on average, while there's less than $100,000 in a private place. It's because, as I said in my post, the municipal kindergartens often have more tasks to take care of. But with the arrangement that is now sketched by a majority, I think it will also be able to even out, and one should get more focus on effective operation in the municipal kindergartens, which in their numbers also don't necessarily have with rent, maintenance and the kind of things that often cover the municipalities. So it's really a bigger crack than what comes out of the numbers. Right does not want the framework funding for kindergartens – we have said that quite clearly. We want a price-fixed financing. That means, of course, that in the long term, if we get an impact on our arrangement, and that's what is now to be investigated, we will get a clean state funding of the kindergartens by the money following the pod. That means we'll get a system where you're right in kindergarten, you can pick up your check and use it in kindergarten. But that's not what we agree on now. Now we agree to escalate up to 50 pst. And we agree to investigate different options. I had hoped that the Progress Party could also participate in it and be part of and push that development further. It's not too late to sign up, we get more rounds in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e927	The representative of Greece is talking about price financing as if it were going to solve the problems and challenges in the kindergarten sector. But does the representative of Greece not see that there may be some problems associated with the lack of total responsibility for the needs of kindergartens? And what about those who don't have enough nursery places? Does a single-cost financing mean that municipalities should be responsible for ensuring that everyone gets kindergarten, while not having the overall overview based on the funding scheme that Right here wants? That's one question. The second is the comment in the setting where a multiple, all of the non-participating Progress Party, asks the Government to present a case on the obligation for municipalities to provide childcare space to anyone who wants it, and that the majority consider this as a tool to achieve the goal of full needs coverage. Now Inger Stolt-Nielsen said earlier in the debate that the Right does not support a statutory obligation to provide childcare, if I understand correctly. Is it so that the right has already decided that they do not want a statutory obligation for the municipality to provide nursery facilities? In the news, among others: Got an understanding that Right supported it. In this comment, one asks for clarifications, and asks that a case be brought about this obligation, but what the Right really means here, if they have concluded beforehand that they do not want a legal duty, there is such a doubt. Could the representative of Helleland make it up to you?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e934	I am very pleased that I got that question, because there is clearly a need for clarification in the light of the fact that Dagsnytt sauce together two different things, namely that the Right and Workers' Party agreed to step up State aid and that a majority in Stortinget agreed to have a statutory obligation for municipalities to offer kindergartens to all families who want it. That note is not on the right. It's in the notes on page 22. It says that everyone, except the Advance Party and the Right, asks for a legal obligation. When we say that we want to join in getting a case to Stortinget where we look at an obligation for the municipalities to offer kindergartens to anyone who wants to do so, that is exactly the opposite of what May-Helen Molvær Grimstad says. We haven't concluded. It's not safe we're going to go to law enforcement. We'll try to avoid it, but then we have to try to find other ways to reach the municipalities, and that's why it says in the same comment: ‘The majority consider this to be a tool to achieve the objective of full needs coverage. The majority stress that this must be done in understanding with the municipalities about the economy and the timetable for implementation.’» This is the same way that we, together with the Workers' Party, say no to the legalization of these cooperation agreements. We want to do this in common, in cooperation and in agreement with Kommune-Norway. But it's clear that if it turns out to be difficult to get this done, we have to evaluate a law. But we are the only party with the Progress Party that does not conclude by lawmaking now. So we're not going to start with the end. We say we want to have a case about this. We'll evaluate the different sides of it, but we haven't concluded on law enforcement, and we'll try to avoid it. The less lawmaking you can get in this area, the better it is compared to using the law against the municipalities. It must be better to get an agreement with the municipalities that will ensure that you get a proper daycare facility, and that you get it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e946	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e949	Storting has an important issue for treatment today. It's been more than ten years since kindergarten policy was debated so thoroughly. The provision of nursery facilities is an important part of the welfare community. Furthermore, kindergarten is important for the growing-up and caring environment of children, while it is of great importance for parents to be able to care for their children while at the same time being able to participate in their professional life. The centre party is very pleased with the large upsurge that the central government's kindergarten message has received. The fact that the Stoltenberg government did not choose to submit a new message is the best evidence of the large consensus. The extensive position does not have many specific comments except for the Progress Party, and there is enough evidence that the central government has made a good deal of progress. We have achieved the goal of full child care coverage by 2003. It is underlined that kindergartens should offer a qualitatively good offer to all those who want it. This requires not least competent staff at different professional levels, which, in turn, is a challenge for education and training authorities. It is necessary to provide for flexible arrangements according to the needs of parents and, last but not least, at an acceptable price. Here, someone has to take self-criticism. We have simply not done our job well enough when we see that the parental payment has increased instead of going down. If the freedom of choice is to become real in all municipalities, we have to bring down the parental payment, as the message underlines. The centre party is also involved in diversity in the kindergarten service. That is why we consider private kindergartens an important part of the total offer. In particular, family farms have represented a positive increase in kindergarten provision. Private kindergartens are mainly established on the basis of non-governmental organisations such as sanitary and other non-profit institutions serving households. I noticed that the growth in kindergartens has been strongest here. At the same time, too few of these have received municipal support, and the one given is too low. The centre party is amazed that the Workers' Party is not in favour of the legalisation of cooperation agreements with private kindergartens, where one can ensure a qualitatively good offer and define the obligations that private kindergartens must assume in order to receive municipal grants. I am thinking not least of the obligation to provide services to disabled children and others with special needs. I see that the Labour Party and the Right are united not to want cooperation agreements. I think it might be something special, but I assume that they have different reasons for the positions – or is it so that someone has stolen someone's clothes, to use the old expression. The notification proposed a percentage economic breakdown of 40, 30 and 30 between the State, the municipality and the parent payment, respectively. The Central Party is satisfied with the decision that the State should cover 50 pst. of the child care costs in the municipalities, but at the same time we must be willing to increase municipal transfers accordingly. That's the Center Party willing to do. The size must stand by its decisions and allow what we promise. We must not get into the same misdemeanour that has happened many times, that the municipalities assume that they will get state transfers, and yet it does not. We know that very many of the earmarked grants have not been price adjusted for years. It is necessary to deposit funds corresponding to the decisions taken. I assume that all the parties that are behind the decision will do that. That's not small money we're talking about. The Ministry of Children and Family states that a State share of 50 pst. will require NOK 6.7 billion or DKK 1.7 billion more than the state currently provides. The Communication provided for the strengthening of the sector by DKK 1.2 billion over the period up to 2003. When the increase to which the notification was made is now being redispatched to increase the State grant, the Central Party expects the Government of the future budgets to commit the necessary funds so that municipalities can actually expand and operate the new kindergartens. This is a condition for lower parental and non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens to be achieved. I refer to the special note from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party under section. 1.6.8. where we underline framework funding as the guiding principle for the local government sector. We are all familiar with the great frustration that local politicians have over all the earmarking of funds. It has been necessary to bring about reforms, but political will also needs to be demonstrated to reduce earmarking once full needs have been met and where public funding is at least 70 pst. Having heard the statements of the Prime Minister and the Minister of State to reduce designation and to give municipalities greater freedom of action, I was somewhat surprised that the Labour Party in this position took a more lucid attitude to provide the municipalities with the necessary flexibility to offer a varied and user-friendly childcare facility to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e972	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e975	When it comes to these cooperation agreements, we believe in the Labour Party that it is possible to obtain it on a voluntary basis. We think it's enough to work out templates, and that's what the private kindergartens are asking for. But if it turns out to be a problem, we'll get back to it. It's always possible to come back, but we think it's too big a step to take to say that we have to promise it. We just think it's unnecessary. When it's true that we're in favour of ear marking and we're in favour of framework transfers, it's much in line with KS's vision. They have said that they can live well with ear-marked appeals in this sector, and in that there is a lot of recognition. We're not going to have any less ambitions in terms of increasing the autonomy of our municipalities, but in this sector we've said that we're going to make sure everything's in place first, and then we're going to transfer it to the municipalities. We're in the middle of a wide multiple. So I have to say that I'm happy that there's a big deal between the parties about this message and that the center is also involved in an escalating to 50 pst. State aid. But I have a sense of some kind of Ole Brumm policy from the centre, because in addition, it points out that the local economy needs to be strengthened if the municipalities are to have real opportunities for development at the required rate. Then I have to ask again, because I did not get a response from the representative of Molvær Grimstad: is it such that the centre thinks that the municipalities that have done the least will get more free resources? Is it one of the meanings of targeted measures and, at the same time, of increasing free resources? Would you like to recognize the least of those who have done so? How does one defend this against relatively poor municipalities that have given priority to kindergartens high, and that may not have a high parental benefit either? I know we did it in the care of the elderly, but we all said this should be an exception. It can't be in the relationship between state and municipality that the state appreciates those who do the least, or does the Center Party mean anything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e984	If I don't remember completely wrong, the Workers' Party was, some time ago, very concerned with the obligation of the private kindergartens to carry out the same tasks as the municipal authorities. I would like to be corrected if I am now wrong, but it has been said in this room several times. It surprises me that the Workers' Party, which has been so critical of what has to do with private initiatives and private establishments, will not require a cooperation agreement now and legislate it. It really surprises me, because we see that it's the private kindergartens that have been responsible for the strongest growth, and that's very good, but it's in itself a defeat for the public. Then I think we should also demand that there are certain conditions that must be met in order for them to receive municipal support. The biggest surprise when I read the setting was that the Workers' Party was not involved in what the Centre's proposed in connection with the message. Then I find nowhere any confirmation or assurance that the Labour Party and the Right, the majority, will add more funds to get to this escalation that we agree on is important. That's what we've pointed out in the comment on this that I mentioned instead. When I am asked if the municipalities that have not done their job will get more money or get something for free, I think it is a reverse job. We in the Center Party have great confidence in the local people, but we see every day how they struggle to get the ends to meet, and the situation has been that in some cases they have had to let the private kindergartens expand the offerings instead of the municipal ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e993	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e997	For SV it is important to state that kindergarten is good for children. It is a good care provision, and it is the common arena where children can develop in social interaction with other children and more adults. Those who do not receive this offer often have a lower starting point when they start school. Children's playgrounds for all those who want them are therefore important to prevent differences in society. We want to strengthen this children's community, and we want to make it available to all children, regardless of their parents' economic, social or ethnic background. The size has repeatedly adopted the objective of full needs coverage in the kindergarten sector by the end of 2000. This objective was not achieved because the objective of full needs coverage has not been pursued economically. In recent years, the rate of expansion has fallen, and children will still be in kindergarten queue by the end of this year. It is therefore important that the objective of full coverage of needs by 2003 be followed up financially, both in terms of state subsidies and a proper boost for the local economy. It will vary from municipality to municipality whether full coverage is 70 pst. 80 pst. and full coverage must therefore mean that children are no longer in kindergarten queue. SV thinks it is good that Stortinget is in favour of a development obligation. But from 1 January 2004, we want a statutory individual right to kindergarten. If the legalisation of a municipal obligation to provide nursery facilities is to be effective, SV believes that it must be clear and therefore individual, in other words a kindergarten right. If we believe that kindergarten is a good offer for all children, it must also mean that all families with children have a real financial opportunity to pay for kindergarten for one or more children. In many municipalities, parental payments are now so high that some parents cannot afford to have children in kindergarten. SV's goal is free kindergarten for all children. But on the way there, we're going to reduce parental pay. SV wants a distribution that means a ceiling on the parental payment of 15 pst. by 2005 at the latest. Norway will then be at the level of Sweden and Finland today. So with today's level, we're in jumbo place in the Nordic region. The Swedes now add up to a system where the parental payment shall not exceed $1150 or 3 pst. of gross household income. This is ambitious, as the rapporteur said, but it is therefore possible for Norway. SV will fall to this level by 2008. It is primarily about bets on children and children's families, but it is also about parents' real right to professional participation, and then we know what we're talking about – women's real right to professional participation. SV is concerned that municipalities are given a financial opportunity both to build and operate good kindergartens. I actually agree with the Right that there is almost no area as privatized as the nursery sector. That is why we believe that the development must take place primarily in the public domain. It's a public task in the same way that school and education are. But we are at the same time concerned with ensuring the private kindergartens that exist. It is about the size of the state grant, but it is certainly also about the municipal economy. Therefore, SV will strengthen the municipal economy so that municipalities can fulfil the tasks assigned to them. SV is concerned that kindergartens have pedagogically qualified staff, who can provide working conditions and pay – and I stress: a salary – who can keep staff working in kindergartens even when they have worked there for a time and thus have the skills and experience needed by the kindergarten sector. That is why we support the demand for the wage-lift for which pre-school teachers today demand and strike. There is a need to establish a standard for staffing in kindergartens in addition to the current standard for the number of children per day. Pedagogical leader. Today's legislation provides for a judgement as to what is sufficient manpower. SV promotes its own proposal on the minimum standard for the total crew. By doing so, we believe that crewing needs to be increased and thus the quality of kindergartens must be ensured at an appropriate level. I finally want to record the SV's suggestions that have been referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1016	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1021	I'm trying again. I noticed that the representative, Valle, said that SV would strengthen the municipalities' economy. Then I have a great interest in knowing if it's a general strengthening of the municipalities' economy, or if it's a targeted strengthening of the economy of those municipalities that haven't built up a very large number of kindergartens, but where there's a lot of expansion left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1028	We are in favour of a general strengthening of the local economy, because we want municipalities to be able to carry out their tasks properly. Now we have to reflect together on what it is that makes the parental payment become as high as it has in the municipalities, and on what it is that the municipalities have left very much of the development to private stakeholder organisations, parents or whatever it might be. Obviously, there are different priorities in the different municipalities, but in general, there are children and young people who are deprived in very many municipalities. The state is rich. The private sector is rich. That's where you've had the biggest growth in recent years. There are considerable differences between the public sector and the private sector in relation to who has benefited from the wealth we have here in the country. That is why we are concerned that the municipalities have to be properly able to carry out their tasks, both in terms of pay for those who are going to work there, in terms of parental pay and in terms of quality in the offer given. Then I would like to stress that in addition, we want it to be an individual right, so that those who need kindergarten space should have a real right to have a kindergarten place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1037	I am a little surprised that SV seems to be more concerned with the economy and the framework that increases the need for more money in this sector than with the real content of the nursery service. It is also clear from the SV's comments that they wish to bind the private kindergartens to the municipalities, that there should be a common regulatory framework. It'll seem very cost-effective. It is the private people who have built up the majority of kindergartens in the 1990s, and their value was not mentioned by SV at all. It is the private kindergartens that account for most of the flexibility and variation in kindergarten provision, while the municipal kindergartens have been more compliant. I wonder if SV does not see the value of the differences and the variation in offers that have come with the private kindergartens, or whether SV is still so old-fashioned that they believe that kindergartens should be a venue for all Norwegian children in the same way. Does it necessarily have to be a proper A4 child there to be approved by SV? I wonder about this a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1051	I was very happy to have this question, in order to be able to kill the myth that we're going to go in for the A4 school or the A4 children's home. Like the debate around the schools, we want to highlight the importance of having a variety of ways to run schools and kindergartens, that we have a variety of ways to approach the kids, which are the best for the kids. That is why we have, for example: In the context of the budget, I have been committed to providing grants to natural children's gardens and kindergartens otherwise operated in different ways, and therefore I will now put an end to the myth that we are in favour of an A4 thinking in the case of kindergartens – on the contrary. The representative, Stolt-Nielsen, said that I had not mentioned the private kindergartens. It is possible that I said too little about them, but I said that we were busy ensuring the kindergartens that are now in progress, a proper operation. Because we're also worried that so many private kindergartens are going bankrupt, and that's why we're concerned that municipalities should be able to make a real contribution to these kindergartens. But we are now concerned that the development should be possible primarily under public control, in other words, that the municipalities should be able to take on the task that they were supposed to do, and that this is a public task on the same lines as school and education. We actually share the view of pre-school teachers that kindergartens are part of the education system, but that they should not be ‘schooled’. There should be opportunities for young people to develop in games and fun with other kids, and, as I said, in many different ways – diverse and with great variation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1058	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1061	The Bondevik government provided a big message on child care policy that provides a good basis for a child care offensive for the benefit of children and parents. It is positive that there is a broad consensus on increasing efforts in this very important policy area. The majority of Norwegian children spend several of their most formative years in kindergarten. It is therefore of great importance that the offer is of high quality and that there are places for those who want it. Full child care coverage is the aim of the Left, and this can be achieved in a short time if the good objectives of the message and setting are followed. Today’s debate provides a basis for optimism, but follow-up in the future state budget is crucial. I am of the opinion that the final blows in the process of achieving the objectives outlined today will be related to the examination of the individual budgets. That's why what we're doing today is a good start to an offensive, but also no more than that. When the Left went in for the introduction of cash support, it was with the clear premise that this should not lead to reduced bets on kindergartens, and that the cash support would lead to increased freedom of choice for parents. It is disappointing to note that the rate of expansion has fallen. The objective of full childcare coverage in 2000 is not being achieved. This means that many parents do not have real choices and that the flexibility of the offer is too poor. In some municipalities, only children with special needs are given space in the nursery. Of course, the desirable thing is that the exciting diversity we have in our nursery is also present in our kindergartens. The left considers that private kindergartens need to be an integral and equivalent part of the childcare provision in the municipalities. This must be ensured through committed cooperation, which in turn must lead to the provision of municipal support to private kindergartens and thus a more predictable and stable operating situation. In this way, private kindergartens can also receive a parental payment that is in line with the municipal authorities, and at such a level that parents can afford a residence payment without experiencing this as a major financial burden. We know that the parental payment in Norway is higher than in other Nordic countries. This can lead to some parents not being able to afford kindergarten, and this needs to be changed so that we get in line with our neighboring country. The Left shares the desire of the majority to increase the state subsidy to the kindergartens to 50 p.m., redistributing the increased funds contained in the nursery service. Framework funding is a guiding principle for the Left in the financing of the municipal sector, and we support the proposal that the childcare provision should be included in the income system of municipalities once the goal of full needs has been achieved and the public funding is at least 70 pst. In this way it can be ensured that everyone can afford to choose kindergarten for their children. Some choose to see the stagnation in the nursery development in the last year as a result of the cash support. When such a new system is established, it is not unnatural for some municipalities to be left unattended because they do not know what consequences it will have for the demand for nursery places. That uncertainty is no longer justified. We know that more kindergarten places are needed, and that there is a need for a power plant in the municipalities, including the state. More money is simply needed for the construction and operation of kindergartens. It is therefore important to stress that the tight local economy has hindered the desired progress in the development of kindergartens. It must not continue to be that way. It is essential that the municipalities are provided with more funds, as the Left and the other centre parties add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1078	There is no other period in a person's life that characterizes it as strongly as the very first years of life. It is in these first years that the personality and identity of the child is molded. In this very period of life, the need for safety and care is absolutely fundamental, and it is from this perspective that the Workers' Party says that kindergarten is the best care provider for children when their parents are at work or under education. In kindergarten, the social characteristics of children develop. They develop confidence in themselves and learn to relate to other children. A key objective for Norwegian kindergartens is to ensure a basic competence for children. This basic competence is defined as the development of just social skills and the development of languages and the ability to communicate in a broad sense. The kindergarten shall provide the basis for lifelong learning and thus prepare the children for the meeting with a society that is changing steadily and rapidly. Kindergarten is also an important place in making friends and gaining experience on the way from close care in the family and out into society. Nor should the role of kindergarten in preparation for schooling be underestimated. School transitions can be facilitated if the child has gone to kindergarten, and all indications are that children who have gone to kindergarten are constantly well equipped to meet school everyday. Of course, kindergartens should be operated in close cooperation and understanding with the home. This principle is laid down in the scope of the nursery. The involvement of parents is essential for achieving the social and educational processes that aim to create in kindergartens. It is important to stress that the vast majority of children in Norway have good and safe growth conditions. For these, kindergarten will be a complement to the care provided by parents and family. However, some children may feel that home conditions are not what they should be in order for them to grow up well and safely. We know that there are clear links between difficult growing-up conditions and the possibilities of developing abnormal behaviour in adulthood. Kindergarten plays a particularly important role for this group of children. In addition to providing help directly to the family, kindergarten will be able to play the role of an alternative care and learning arena, which can meet the needs of just these children. In many communities around the country, cultural diversity is part of everyday life. We live in multicultural Norway. In this context, too, the Labour Party believes that kindergartens should play an important role. In kindergarten, Norwegian children and children with a migrant background can meet and become friends. There is great reason to believe that the friendships created here will help to increase the tolerance of Norwegian society. For children with a migrant background, kindergarten will also be a place where language training can be well founded, and in this way kindergarten can contribute to a better transition to school and later working life. In this context, I refer to the successful trials with free kindergartens in some urban areas. I am very pleased that today we are receiving support for a pediatric message that is offensive and targeted. The objective of providing childcare facilities for their children by 2003 is a realistic objective. I'm also very pleased that there's a majority to escalate the state grant to 50 pst. during a three-year period. This is a necessary and proper priority of the Storting. Unfortunately, we have seen price developments in kindergarten places in recent years that have resulted in this care service being given a price tag that is not worth a welfare state. This message gave the course for a new kindergarten policy in Norway, a kindergarten policy that focuses on children, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1097	A pediatric report contains differing views on how tomorrow’s pediatric policy is to be conducted. For the Progress Party, it seems that some political parties and stakeholder organisations may wish that the public should not only govern but also take over the entire kindergarten market, on the basis of a goal of compulsory kindergarten for all children under school age. If that is the case, the Progress Party will take a great deal of distance from this. The Progress Party cannot see that the freedom of choice of parents is guaranteed by coordinated admission, as provided for in the Action Plan. Such public admission would hinder the diversity and flexibility of all parents. The individual approved nursery should be responsible for both offer and admission. Only in this way will we have healthy competition and an adaptation of supply and demand. It may almost seem that the commercial operation of kindergartens is not permitted. This considers that the Progress Party will be able to increase the costs for parents and that supply and demand will not be proportionate. Rather, it must be arranged for parents and children’s needs. The Progress Party also believes that each municipality should be given less control over the childcare facility in the municipality. Governance should be more widely transferred to private actors and parents themselves. This should and should be liberalised by the Kindergarten Act. If you go back in time, you see that kindergartens were started on the basis of social responsibility and commitment. The actors could be churches, parishes, housewives, sanitary associations and other non-profit institutions. At first, childcare facilities were mainly aimed at children with disabilities and children in families with social problems of different types and sizes. It should be a stable and good offer to children who did not have the social security they needed and claim. Today, social responsibility is largely taken over by the public, and the number of kindergartens driven by the pioneers has fallen substantially in recent years. The large kindergarten development in Norway began in the 1970s. Then the women were going out to work, and they needed a safe and secure place for their children while they were at work. The richest had finances for private solutions at home, while so-called ‘ordinary people’ did not have this and therefore had to find other solutions. This led both private and municipal authorities to engage in the expansion of kindergartens. Today there are about the same number of private and public kindergartens. The need for kindergartens has been much greater for a long time than public resources have been available. In addition, there has been a clear objective of full childcare coverage. To address this need, the State and the municipalities have stimulated private interests to establish and operate kindergartens in private. The Progress Party believes that the interaction and competition between private and municipal kindergartens has been the main driver in the development of the quality and flexibility of childcare facilities. This has given many a real choice between private and municipal kindergarten and the choice of alternative options. Unfortunately, lack of offers made this choice difficult for many parents. The Progress Party will point out the importance of a wide range of childcare services in terms of both educational content, life vision, types of operation and periods of residence. Infant parents must have the opportunity to choose care and work in different combinations, because children have different needs, and parents must have the freedom to choose between different care solutions based on what they think is best for the children. Common admission is, in addition to economic discrimination, the strongest estimate against children's gardens with alternative pedagogics, in particular the basis of life, occupational kindergartens and kindergartens, driven by parents and by type of holding. This will mean losing control of your own nursery, and it will take away the whole foundation of the commitment and effort of most of those in charge of kindergarten. The Progress Party wants a family policy based on volunteering and freedom of choice, and would argue that today's child care policy does not give parents this and that legislation in this area is far too strict. The main objective of the Progress Party is to give parents greater freedom of choice by transferring the grants to the kindergartens in their entirety to the childcare area. The aim of such a conversion is to eliminate the discrimination that today’s system entails against parents, such as those who have been treated as victims. makes the choice of being at home with the children. The Progress Party has partly succeeded in providing parents who choose to be at home with their children with a better and fairer arrangement for the introduction of cash support for one- and two-year-olds. Although this was not an optimal solution, it can at least be considered fair. In addition, the Progress Party will underline the need for the liberalisation of the Kindergarten Act, in order to create greater diversity in the kindergarten sector. A collection of all public transfers to children’s families in the area of childcare, together with the liberalisation of the childcare law, will increase parental freedom of choice. Parents who need some form of organised childcare can then choose between traditional kindergartens, family kindergartens, kindergartens, day-care centres, internships, etc., as they wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1117	In particular, the treatment of this nursery school report indicates that we finally have an important goal in view of our entire nation, namely full child care coverage – for the smallest, up to three years, already during this year, and for the largest, over three years, by the end of 2003. This should be very good for all those who see a safe and good kindergarten as an unconditionally important social asset, and even if our personal experience in this area is some years behind. It is always the case that personal experience contributes to the expression of our attitudes. And I allow myself to be so personal as to say that for my family it was natural when the opportunities opened up, to leave our hopeful to a capable and willing kindergarten staff. I am convinced that this gave them as good a start as if they were spending time at home with one of the parents, and in some respects also a much better one. At the same time, this gave us, who were parents, an opportunity to continue in a professional life for which we were both educated. For us, this was the right choice. It is not difficult in retrospect to see that there could be little time with the children, so I can understand the many parents who want a different solution. The Christian People's Party welcomes the introduction of both maternity leave, father's rights and now, not least, cash support. This has been a very important step forward in family policy to improve the situation of families with children, to give them more time together and to increase their freedom of choice. As far as the last point is concerned, freedom of choice is also an important prerequisite for full child-care coverage. It is positive that the State's share of the expenditure should be escalated to 50 pst. during a five-year period. Despite this, full coverage of needs will require significant increased efforts on the part of municipalities if the parent payment is not to become unacceptable in the coming period. It will also help to weaken freedom of choice. In recent years, the municipalities have not contributed most to the development of kindergartens in Norway, but to private developers, associations, organisations, enterprises, etc., so that today they represent about half of the capacity. This is primarily due to the economic pressure the municipalities have been subjected to, for a long time. The local economy will be discussed later in another debate, but it must also be allowed here to recall the responsibilities of national politicians to ensure the necessary resources for local government to follow up national objectives. We still get indications that this has often not been the case. The economy is probably one reason why many municipalities have closed their eyes to not least private orphanage owners and their opportunities, both to keep their parental payments down and to keep them under the working conditions of their employees. Employees in kindergarten are a very important family policy resource, and I am convinced that investment in both skills development and personnel policy measures will not only improve recruitment but also pay for society in many other ways. Unfortunately, there is no majority of the proposal in the Communication on the statutory obligation to conclude a cooperation agreement with private kindergartens. On the other hand, the majority requests that a model for such cooperation agreements be drawn up in cooperation with the parties involved. There is hope that this can be an important tool to improve the situation of private kindergartens. It is also important that cooperation agreements ensure the ability of private orphanage owners to maintain the property value of the nursery. We've seen unfortunate examples of government using such agreements for something that looks almost like expropriation of privacy values over time. Finally, Party colleague Molvær Grimstad pointed out an error in the configuration. The Christian People's Party has come up with a note on the purpose paragraph that we do not have. A majority of the committee points out that the goal of kindergarten to operate in close cooperation and in close understanding with the worlds may conflict with the Christian purpose paragraph. The majority then ask that this be investigated and evaluated. I just want to remind you in this short article that this is a very sensitive area. I thought it was now quiet about the purpose paragraph in the kindergarten. The last time this issue was raised, in 1995, was when a broad majority of the Committee, including several representatives from the Labour Party and the Right, stated that today’s purpose was satisfactory and that no signs had been received of problems related to its practice. I allow myself to ask: have such signals arrived later? In that case, the setting has not been documented. On the contrary, I think we have signals that indicate that today's destination has at least as wide an uproar today as a few years ago. It's a fact that people today are very busy with values. The Christian People's Party will see it as unfortunate if we now have an uplifting dispute about the very value base of the institution that is going to provide the starting point for the growing relative into a new millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1140	I have noticed that a joint committee stresses that kindergarten is a good care provision for the children ‘when parents are in work or under education’. It was as far as you could go in a common note. The attitude of kindergartens may not be as clear as you can get the impression – when you keep the Advance Party out. The working party believes that kindergartens are a good offer, whether the parents are at home or at work. Children who have their mother or father at home will also need a nursery for a shorter or longer period of time. In kindergarten they will get in touch with other children. We know that children who have been in kindergarten have an advantage when they start school. They have had the opportunity to play with other children, they have learned to take account of each other, and they have benefited from the social and educational offer that a kindergarten is. I have the impression that the Christian People's Party sees the nursery as a useful place for children who need care when their parents cannot take care of themselves because of work or education. The position of kindergartens was made clear by Kjell Magne Bondevik during a debate on television a few days ago. He described the Labour Party's family policy as that we wanted to institutionalize child care. Institution is a negatively charged word, and I therefore perceived him as thinking that kindergartens are institutions that children should not spend too much time in. It reminds me of my first pediatric debate in the Municipal Council in Ullensaker at the very beginning of the 1970s, where one good adult man after another took the floor and said that their children had never been in institutions, and they had become good people. They could therefore see no purpose for the municipality to engage in kindergarten development. Now there are very few politicians who dare say something like this today. The majority of our voters view kindergartens as a good thing we can barely do without. Kindergartens have come to stay, but there is still a large shortage of places, and costs are high. Demand is high from young children’s parents who strive to get a good care offer for their children. Lack of space, combined with high parental pay, forces many to seek other solutions, such as: Private day mother. Cash support also encourages this. It's a much worse solution, because the day mother is alone with the children. There are no other adults present to control the treatment the children are receiving. Many day mothers probably do a good job, but the parents can never be sure about how the child is doing. I am therefore pleased that the majority are in favour of a stepping-up plan to meet the needs of kindergarten, and that we are now setting a new goal, but we must reach that goal. The majority are also in favour of increasing the operating grant to the kindergartens by up to 50 pst. And when the Right Party and the Labour Party – which together constitute a majority – are in favour of municipalities paying their share, 30pst., the parental payment will be reduced compared to today. It's time we got such a plan, and I hope we can get it realized. I have especially enjoyed listening to Per Sandberg in today's debate. He works, among other things: Sincerely annoyed that the Workers' Party wants us to gradually have a system in which all children are guaranteed free core time in kindergarten. I hope he will take this up on every conceivable occasion, and in this way help us to market this case. I am convinced that the voters see great benefit in such a system. It ensures that everyone, regardless of income, can make use of a nursery provision for their children. As mentioned earlier, the Working Party on kindergartens sees as a good thing that all children must be able to use. For children of foreign-language parents there will be a nice way to learn Norwegian. The sooner they get in touch with Norwegian-speaking environments, the quicker they learn the language and the faster they learn about Norwegian culture. I also noticed that in the news today, one in four people who are waiting for psychiatric treatment was a child under 18 years of age. It is a daunting information, which shows that we need to increase our efforts in the area of prevention. Here, too, kindergarten is important, because there will be a rapid detection of care failure and other problems, and therefore treatment will be started.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1163	The vast majority of parents choose to have their children in kindergarten, and it has long been agreed that anyone who wants to do so will be offered a nursery. It is a feature of our social development that more and more children have working parents. As a result, children with their home mother and father also need time in kindergarten, simply because there are few children to play with in the community. Children need contact and play opportunities with other children for their social development. In early childhood, the basis for personality development is laid. It is therefore important that the quality of childcare facilities is high and that parents have a real impact on the development of the content of kindergartens. Different parents have different perceptions of value, and because kindergartens are to cooperate with parents on the growth and development of children, it is important that we have a wide range of childcare facilities. The wide range of childcare facilities is largely maintained by private kindergartens, and the right is satisfied that a support scheme is now being introduced that treats equally private and municipal kindergartens. However, whether the nursery is private or municipal, the Right would stress the importance of parents having a high right to participation in the contents of the nursery. In a situation of full childcare, the competition between kindergartens will be intensified, and this will mean increased competition for quality in relation to the needs of the parents that the kindergarten is intended to meet. The right considers that this can be achieved without the establishment of a formal body to ensure this contact. Kindergartens shall not only meet the parents’ needs for child care, they shall meet the children’s needs for play, social training and learning in a safe environment. Kindergartens are primarily for children. To achieve this objective of safe play, social development and learning, it is important that kindergarten staff have a high level of competence, and this can only be ensured through targeted efforts to recruit and keep staff. Today's lack of pre-school education is worrying. We know that there is little search for pre-school teacher training, and we know that there is a great deal of departure from the profession. These are challenges that the Government needs to take seriously. The under-recruitment of trained personnel must be met by active measures on the continuing education side, and the Right is satisfied that cooperation is being established between several bodies to meet the need for the training of kindergarten staff, both for those with a basic educational qualification, and not least for all assistants, who need professional competence building in relation to their tasks. Multicultural Norway is facing new challenges. Accepting children from cultural areas other than our own sets requirements for special competence. For foreign-language children, kindergarten shall be an integration and language training arena to provide them with the best possible starting point for the meeting with the Norwegian school. It is a challenge for the public to make a babysitting service for these children, which provides them with basic language training and at the same time ensures that their own value base and their particular cultural background are respected. It is important that these parents feel secure that their children are not subjected to undue influence, but at the same time it is important that they understand that their children need to know the fundamental values on which our society is based. Successful integration is based on mutual respect. The integration practices of kindergartens are of great importance in how people from different cultural circles can find their way around our whole society. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is pleased to cooperate with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research in order to systematise knowledge of language training models that may be suitable for minority children, and that the Ministry will take responsibility for ensuring that the staff in the kindergarten have sufficient competence in multicultural work, that they are trained in pedagogical work in multicultural groups. On the right, the Government is satisfied that, on the basis of this Communication, it will present an overall quality action plan in the kindergarten sector for 2001-2003, and that the objective of this quality initiative is to provide all kindergartens with tools to maintain and further develop the quality of kindergartens within that period. We have noted the three themes underlying quality development: variation, user adaptation and competent staff. In recent years, we have increased the width of the kindergarten offer. We don't just have life-viewed kindergartens, but we've had kindergartens with special content, such as: natural childhood gardens. These have become very popular offers for many children. At all, it is important that we get a local width of the nursery facility, which increases family choices. It also boosts the quality competition. That is why we are pleased to see that attention is paid to the fact that locally selected themes are also the basis for further quality development work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1186	As a baby's mother with two children in kindergarten, I see every day the enriching nursery is. It gives children the opportunity to learn to become social individuals, and through educational guidance they get knowledge about themselves and the children around them, and the opportunity to explore the world. But at the same time, as a mother, I get a sense of security that my children are doing well while I'm at work. We aim to ensure that families with young children are given the opportunity to combine care for children with work or education. The development of kindergartens, so that the offer is available to everyone who wants it, is also important to ensure the well-being and good development of our children. Kindergarten shall be a good offer to all children, regardless of their parents’ social, economic or cultural background, and irrespective of their place of residence. This means that children with special needs must have access to high-quality nursery facilities. The everyday life of kindergartens shall reflect the diversity of society by providing a basis for tolerance and interaction. First of all, kindergarten is important for the children. But it's also an investment for society. Of course, kindergarten can never take on parents' responsibilities, but it is important for the family's everyday life, it is important to promote gender equality, for business development, for employment and for housing in districts. In Norway, we see growth as a phase of life with its own value and not just as a preparation for adulthood. This is reflected in our view of children's everyday lives. We are concerned that children will have love and care, but also that they will have the opportunity to play, learn and unfold freely. Children shall be allowed to be children. When the goal of full needs coverage is achieved in a few years, the vast majority of pre-school children will have the basis for learning and social mastering when they start school. At the same time, society will place high demands on the knowledge and competence of its children. This poses precisely great and exciting challenges in the future. In the previous nursery report, there was a broad consensus on full childcare coverage by the year 2000. Unfortunately, we were unable to achieve this goal. There are two main reasons for this. There are not enough places, and the parental payment is too high. In addition, the central government sent out signals that one should wait with further nursery building because of the cash support. Naturally, this led to the municipalities waiting for the development, and so did private actors. The government of Bondevik promoted the kindergarten message, and today we are once again experiencing that the Christian People's Party is trying to make it a point that the Government left the message to be held for treatment in Stortinget. It has been important for me that we do not lose time. We all know in this room that the situation, especially for the private kindergartens, is very alarming. We want stronger tools to be put in place to meet the full needs of 2003. I would say that the position that Stortinget is dealing with today is very offensive and good, and it is stoking up a forward-looking course for this sector. I am therefore very pleased that there is a majority in the Storting for the escalation plan to which it is now being added. I also want to give the Right Honour for the constructive and offensive approach they have had to the kindergarten policy after the cash support was introduced. Increased state subsidies will ensure that the money goes unabated to the kindergarten sector, thus improving economic conditions both for existing kindergartens and for new ones. We also ensure equal treatment between public and private kindergartens. The introduction of a municipal obligation to provide childcare facilities from 2001 onwards will oblige municipalities to take greater responsibility for the remaining development. The aim is to integrate the State grant into the income system in the long term. However, it is necessary to maintain the earmarked state grant schemes until the sector is fully developed and we have reached a satisfactory public funding share. We expect the target of full needs coverage to be achieved during 2003 and a stepping up towards 50 pst. State funding has been proposed to be completed in a few years. The Government will come back with an assessment of whether these objectives have been met, before proposing the inclusion of State grants in the income system. The Government also supports the proposal in the notification that municipalities should cover 30 pst. of the costs of a fully developed sector. This is a goal that you've had for a very long time. In this way, public funding as a whole will facilitate lower parental payments and the possibility of increased use of sibling moderation, income-adjusted rates, allowances and other favourable schemes related to the self-payment in kindergartens. If the nursery is to be a real offer to all children, the parental payment must be reduced in relation to the current level. Full needs coverage means that all those who so desire are offered children’s playgrounds at a price affordable to the family. This government supports the Bondevik government's proposal to non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens. This implies that requirements must be established for private kindergartens, for example: common admission, inclusion in municipal kindergarten plans, and greater responsibility for the provision of space for children with special needs. The government considers that there is no legal requirement for municipalities to conclude a cooperation agreement with private kindergartens. Such cooperation must be ensured in a different way, including: by means of information and guidance, in which the rapporteur was also present in an excellent manner. Staff is the main resource in kindergarten and has a key role to play in developing kindergartens in line with the needs and needs of children, parents and society. It is primarily staff, with preschool teachers at the head, who can ensure the quality of kindergarten. The dramatic decline in applicants for pre-school teacher education is a cause for concern. Studies show that relatively few pre-school graduates want to work in kindergarten. At the same time, the figures show that there will be enough pre-school teachers in a few years. The challenges therefore lie in recruiting and maintaining pre-school teachers in kindergartens, and less in terms of educational capacity. A report from the OECD points out, among other things: that Norway has a low proportion of educated pedagogues in kindergartens compared to other Scandinavian countries. The government will consider a higher proportion of pedagogical staff in kindergarten. A working group has also been set up to produce a report that points to the challenges of ensuring the recruitment and stability of pre-school teachers in kindergarten. The report of the working party shall be submitted during this month. In the light of the report, the government will assess different strategies to improve recruitment and stability in the pre-school teaching profession. I believe it is important that we have a three-year commitment to quality development in the kindergarten sector. Work shall be based on objectives and leadership in the framework plan for kindergartens. Three thematic areas are central: a kindergarten for all children, user-adapted kindergartens in line with the needs of children and parents, and a competent staff. The aim is for all kindergartens to have a quality development and care system in place during 2003. Municipalities shall facilitate the involvement of kindergartens included in the municipal kindergarten plan in local quality development. The State, at the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, is responsible for setting the right overall objectives and framework for the national quality initiative, and helping municipalities and kindergartens in the work. The government's aim is to expand a kindergarten offer that has a scale and quality that gives parents real choices and that gives pre-school children a good place to be for development, play, learning and care. I am very pleased that there is a political majority to put in place good and offensive instruments to achieve the full needs-based objective of 2003 in relation to kindergartens, and after the debate on cash support, it is gratifying that we can all end up so strongly on an offensive initiative in the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1222	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1225	I would first like to commend the Minister of the Family for her commitment to private kindergartens, which at least has emerged. What I want to challenge the Minister is statements that have come from representatives of the Workers' Party earlier today, especially from the representative Frank Willy Larsen and the representative Anneliese Dørum. My challenge to the Minister for the Family is whether she agrees with the claims that have been made. For the content of the statements of the representative Larsen, it was clear that kindergarten children are probably better equipped to meet school day. The same went again with the representative Dørum. She pointed to the increased need for psychiatric treatment among children today. I have to be allowed to say that it has come in parallel with more and more children going to kindergarten, without me drawing any conclusions from it. It was also in the post to Anneliese Dørum that the nursery had to solve the problems, so that children were better rusted when they started school. Can the Minister for the Family confirm that there is research to show that this is the case? Very well known, there is only research that proves the opposite, namely that kindergarten children and children who don't go to kindergarten are just as well equipped to meet school day. So one more area, and it goes into equality. Is the one-sided bet now on expansion, and the goal of getting more and more children into kindergarten, in good working party spirit, when we know that actually up to 70 pst. by the women simply want to have more time with their children at home? Don't we give the wrong priority when we ignore the signals that come from the different families?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1239	Now it is well that the Council of State should be careful to refer to research if one cannot refer to concrete researchers and research projects, and I cannot. But I have read in various contexts that research shows that precisely those children who have been given the opportunity to go to kindergarten get a good ballast compared to the reality they encounter when they start school. And I am almost convinced, even from my own experience, that kindergarten is positive and good for children's learning. With regard to the psychiatric problems we see today among children, I would strongly distance ourselves from sending our children to kindergarten as parents from having a bad conscience for the problems that we can see in different areas of society. There is no doubt that there are things in our society that are complicated and difficult, and there are also things that politicians do not have the opportunity to adopt us out of. It's part of people's reality and destiny that it's hard to intervene in. That's why I think it's particularly important that we get good public offers that give all children, regardless of their social status or income to their parents, the opportunity to get the most equal basis possible. I want to take the strongest distance from it. I think in a way it's going to be very unfortunate to play on the bad conscience that we as mothers are going to have because we want to participate in the professional life. We know, and it is perfectly honest, that the Progress Party is responsible for a completely different family policy. We also got that very well documented. I'm just waiting for the Progress Party now to put pay compensation in its alternative budget for all mothers who will actually be at home, because that will really mean the Family Policy of the Advance Party. I also take note, and I think it is perfectly fair, that the Progress Party does not want an offensive kindergarten sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1248	I agree with the Minister for Child and Family Affairs that it is positive that there is such a broad agreement in the Stortinget today and in the position we are dealing with on child care policy in the future. The councils made a point that we were also making a note of today’s criticism that the Labour Party came with when the kindergarten message came. It is clear that it is difficult to look away from the fireworks that the impending representative Karita Bekkellem Orheim came with when the nursery message was presented to the Stortinget, the massive criticism that the Labour Party then came with. They sent out a series of press releases. On 20 December, they decided that they would legislate on the right to kindergarten in the treatment of kindergarten messages. Now, the everyday life is coming, we have a government shift, and Karita Bekkellem Orheim has become a new Minister for Children and Family Affairs, and when she answers a question from the committee that there is a good deal of practical difficulty in legislating an individual right to kindergarten, then it's hard to let it be mentioned. The Labour Party has clearly gone away from what they so strongly criticized, but as they now defend, a legal duty. We're glad that they do, but based on the criticism we got, I think there's reason to make sense of it. I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family. The Labour Party maintains, following its statements by the Council of State, that the municipalities and the State will be responsible for 80 pst. of the costs of nursery facilities. Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen has come with statements about the difficult economy, and he has drawn the most weight among government councils about who is going to get money. The government is committed to following this in the next budget, which is a faster escalation than what is leading, primarily 50 pst., leading up to 80 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1257	I don't feel like I'm meeting myself at the door today. I am rather proud that the Labour Party in opposition and position has had an offensive approach to the kindergarten sector, so I feel that I have a fairly good conscience in that area. It is quite correct that the Workers' Party had some critical comments on the message when it was presented. There is no doubt that the treatment that Stortinget has now given the message is very offensive, and goes far beyond what the Bondevik government offered, which is now even the Christian People's Party. There's no doubt about it. When it comes to the question of individual rights, I have never raised it. What I have mentioned, and which the Workers' Party has adopted, is a general right in line with what the school leisure system is, and that is something quite different than an individual right. So it doesn't have the representative Molvær Grimstad coverage to say. As for expectations, I think that this whole hall will be met with expectations in the coming time. Now it is gratifying that the Christian People's Party and Center agree to increase the allocation up to 50 pst. But what the center does at the same time, and that's determined in the setting, is they're giving grants to the municipalities of 500 million. kr in frame transfers. What the center batch is doing in the setting is actually adding 500 million. kr more, so I think I can safely ask the question back to the representative. As for expectations of the future budget, everyone gets a responsibility, and it becomes a commitment that we all have to include in the work that we are now going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1268	President! Can I get the word to clear up a public misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1275	The list of speakers is now so short that it will soon be the opportunity of the representative Molvær Grimstad, for this debate is beginning to approach the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1279	I am glad that the Labour Party at Stortinget now takes the private kindergartens seriously. I am also pleased that the Council of State decided that the setting is offensive and good. She did not say that the message was the opposite, but that was how I could interpret it. The government will assess whether the goal has been achieved, before they conclude on the form of funding, said the Council of State, and I am very pleased about that. Does the Council agree that increasing state subsidies, at least today, is the best guarantee for financing private kindergartens? I would also like to ask the Council of State to specify a little bit how the Workers' Party thinks of free core time in kindergartens. In my previous exchange of lines with the Workers' Party, the representative Ausdal Starrfelt stated that this was an old program point in the Workers' Party, which one of course had to have in such a setting, without me feeling there was some strong commitment behind it. After all, the Workers' Party is still insisting that child care funding should become part of the local authorities' framework when it is full of needs. How, then, will one arrange the financing if one is to have free core time? Should one put it into the framework, then introduce a compensation for free kernel time? I assume that a government will also assess the cost of introducing free core time, and would like to have some feedback from the Council of State on how much it will cost if you think about it, for example. a 4 hour free core time. Finally, I have a good proposal for the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's Programme Committee: remove the proposal for free core time. Instead, go into a simple, modern and offensive funding system where the money follows the child and where the responsibility is clear. Then we will get rid of the vicious debate about who is responsible for the fact that it is not full child-care coverage. The reason why I deal with this with core time is that the Workers' Party and SV say that it should be introduced when you have full needs coverage, and so it is, according to our plans now, in 2003. At the same time, you're going to have a stepping up of the state grant, so I have to say that here there's obviously a need for some clarification. Fortunately, there is no majority for that remark, but it is, after all, the Government that is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1294	I am pleased that the Workers' Party and the Government are getting an opinion of the offensive attitude we have had towards private kindergartens, and I think it is absolutely right that we also have solutions for them. We know that the private nursery stands for as much as 40 pst. of the total offer here in the country, and it should be lacking that we also do not find solutions to the extremely difficult situation that many of these kindergartens have come into. With regard to the future financing mechanism and what is best for the private kindergartens, I have to say that at least I see that the tool today is to increase the state grant, and there is no doubt that it will be an important tool to maintain stable operation both in the private and public sectors. At the same time, it will be involved and contribute to the development of the nursery sector. As for what will be the future scheme – I know that the Right is engaged in the single-price financing scheme, on which the representative made a thorough contribution earlier today – I will, of course, investigate it in a thorough manner as well. The Labour Party's attitude to this in the future will be that we will look at and explore every opportunity without prejudice, so that we can get a system that is as targeted as possible. But I see a lot of negative aspects of it today. I am afraid that it will make some kindergartens vulnerable by not getting enough predictability in the form of operations. With regard to this matter of free core time, there is no doubt – as the case-rapporteur pointed out today – that the Workers' Party has had this in its programme for a long, long time. I think it is right for us, as politicians, to have visions and opinions about what future policy will be like in different areas, whether you become a government council or if you are on the Grand Council. And there is no doubt – just to finish it – that in the long term, the Workers' Party wants us to have some free core time in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1310	The Central Party is pleased with the positive views of the Engaged Council of State on child care and the attitude, and it underlines that there is a great deal of consensus on this policy, except – as I mentioned in the previous paragraph – the Progress Party, which has its own policy in this area. But I think I have to, before I ask the real question, say a little neighbor: I wonder if the Council of State may have misunderstood what the central parties had put in their message, because it was said by the Council of State that we had added 500 million. in addition, kr in free income. Yes, we have done so in the total statement of NOK 1.2 billion. In order to achieve the distribution that we had, we said it would go 400 million. kr to increase the State grant to meet the 40 pst share, 300 million. NOK to enable municipalities to cover their share of 30 pst. And then 500 million. kr in free income so that the municipalities could cover their share of 30 pst. in a fully developed sector. That's the basis. The fact that something has changed, and that they have now gone up to 50 pst, means that it needs to be further increased in order to achieve the goals now set. But then I will again ask the Council of State about this, that the Workers' Party will not participate in the law that there will be a cooperation agreement with private kindergartens. I heard that the council said instead that she did not think this was necessary. Then I ask: why is it not necessary – to ensure equal quality and to take equal responsibility whether private or municipal kindergartens? I am amazed at this, and I would like to have a more detailed presentation of the Council of State. I would also like to hear how the Council of State looks at the fact that the majority has now asked for a closer investigation from the Ministry before joining the objective of transferring state transfers to framework funding. In fact, we have so much faith in local trust elected politicians around us that we believe they should have the opportunity to look at the overall needs of their municipality without it being driven from the state once the needs are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1321	To the last question from the representative, the Labour Party said in the vote that we believe it is right that Stortinget should get back a report and a separate case on how developments in this sector have been before we go into the inclusion of the framework transfer to the municipalities. And I have to say that I do not feel that there is any particular contradiction between what the representative says and what is my opinion of the handling of municipalities and the belief in it. But at the same time, we see that the situation has at least been so far that the municipalities have prioritised kindergartens very differently. But the fact that we are now adding up to a race where we have different tools in place to get a fully developed sector in place in a few years, we hope that the municipalities too can be better able to provide an offer in a few years' time. And I think it is right that the Storting should assess this and come back to it, but we fully agree with the principle that it should be included in the framework transfer. So to this with quality. The representative was concerned about the quality bit and why we would not have a law on what the private kindergartens would be covered by. What was the position in the central government communication was that one did not want to make concrete and clearer guidelines on which specific, explicit requirements the private kindergartens were to be covered, but that it was precisely the municipalities that were to be entrusted with the task of developing and enforcing this in a good way. I believe, as the rapporteur said in his statement, that in this field it is not necessary to make a law, but that the municipalities will come to a good solution through voluntary cooperation with private kindergartens, so that we can get a good quality in the kindergartens in the future – also the private ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1328	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for its commitment to kindergartens and for the emphasis that kindergartens are good for all children, that they are in the arena where children are given social competence, and that it is therefore important for all children that they receive that offer. But I want to challenge the state council at kindergarten. We see it as legalizing an extension obligation is a bit on the road, but a kindergarten right, as they have in Sweden, will not be included in the council at this time. I've read that she says it's hard to practice. Now, it's probably nothing more difficult to practice a kindergarten right than a school law, a right to higher education, so I'd like the Council of State to put this into practice. Then I come over to the staff, because the Council of State stressed so strongly that the staff is an important resource, that we have to do everything we can to keep staff, and that it is rather a recruitment issue, a stabilisation issue, we have than a training issue. It is true that pre-school teachers, who are supposed to be the bearer here, have a very bad salary – and today they are in strike for better pay. Does the Council of State consider such a recruitment plan that we also need to put in place measures to improve the pay of pre-school teachers? Then I get a little worried when I hear that the Workers' Party so strongly emphasizes that private and public kindergartens should be equalised. There's several ways to think about it. But with as strong a feature of private kindergartens as we have today, the Workers' Party does not agree with SV that it is now primarily a public task to ensure that several kindergartens are built, i.e. that municipalities should have that job?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1339	I must say that I am very comfortable with the fact that we have a private initiative in this sector, and I think it has worked satisfactorily. We just have to admit that we could not have given the offer that many children today have had, if it had not been parents who had taken the initiative to give their children a nursery offer. I actually think there are several parties that should take a little bit of self-criticism there. When you're talking about private kindergartens, we know that it's mostly non-profit organisations, it's parents, that's dating to be able to give an offer to their children. So I think this is completely unproblematic, and I also think it's perfectly okay that we continue in the future in the way we've done up to now. But that's why it's right and important that we get equal treatment between private and municipal kindergartens, so that we can find solutions to the difficult situation that very many private kindergartens are in. With regard to employees and how we should hold on to pre-school teachers and get recruiting in the future, there is no doubt that wages are an important tool. At the same time, I ask for respect for the non-intervention of the Government – and the Storting should not – and for the adoption of wages for certain occupational groups. Although we may begin to see trends in the political debate that some people would like to see, I believe that this is something that the social partners should deal with. When it comes to the issue of lawmaking, I think it has been fairly clear. We don't want an individual right, but we want a general law that will commit the municipalities in a completely different way. I think it can be a good tool to give an offer to all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1348	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1351	I would like to say that when the municipal committee is currently sitting and issuing the municipal economic proposition, it is a bit difficult to change the reality of listening to parts of this debate, also in relation to the ability of the municipalities and the ability to carry out some of the wishes that lie here. I think we can imagine that many of the levels of ambition expressed here will be difficult to achieve in today's economic situation in the municipal sector. And I think we're now going to have some realism in relation to how far we're going to be able to solve these things. In addition, I may think that in my reply to Trond Helleland, the Council of State may have somewhat overlooked what the Workers' Party and SV actually say in the setting when they believe that it must be a goal to introduce free core time into the kindergarten when you have full needs coverage. According to this setting, full needs will have to be met in 2003. Then you might want to plan your visions at a concrete level right now. The problem is that you have a lot of visions in a lot of areas, for example. difficult-to-assemble child care and maternity leave. What struck me the first time I read the nursery message from the central government was that in many ways it had not been possible to convert to the fact that many municipalities have already reached needs coverage – perhaps with the exception of kindergartens for the smallest children. But in a lot of municipalities, during this year, next year or the coming years, full needs will be met. When a new kindergarten policy was to be devised, two specific considerations had to be integrated. One was to get to the final development, the other was to set up schemes to ensure the childcare facilities desired in the future for parents and children, through the frameworks established for the scheme. What surprised me the most was that a councillor from the Christian People's Party could propose arrangements that did not guarantee parents the right to choose kindergarten, but who, on the other hand, chose to deviate from the wishes, opportunities and freedom of choice of their parents for the benefit of the municipalities. I thought it was striking, not least when we have an ongoing debate between a non-socialist and a socialist side linked to the private kindergartens. For us, the decentralisation of Norwegian society is possible in two ways. One is to make decisions downwards in the elected bodies. The second is to leave several decisions to individual individuals. And in the kindergarten question, we think that more decisions should be left to the individual, to the parents, so that they can choose between the different nursery services. We then felt that transferring the entire responsibility for the kindergarten sector – also financially – to the municipalities – was wrong. We've been saying that for years. Although we are strongly in favour and have been in the forefront of removing earmarked grants through a series of proposals here in the Chamber in recent years, there have been two grants we have highlighted, where it should not be thought in the same direction. One is effort-driven funding in the health sector, and the other is unit-price financing for kindergartens, because it is about freedom of choice, it is about making mechanisms where the money follows the activity that is taking place and where there is really no efficiency gain for municipalities by managing and creating their own rules. In fact, the Rattsø I Committee showed that a single price financing scheme such as this is more economic than that 435 municipalities should be responsible for it. Thus, there is no common objection mechanism to earmarked funds for this type of price-funded scheme, because the legislation is relatively simple. In addition, it has the clear ideological dimension – according to my concepts – that it also gives parents the right to choose what kindergartens they want, and it also ensures that private kindergartens. It was really quite strange to experience that the private kindergartens became very anxious because of a big message that primarily meant to strengthen the private kindergartens. That is why I am pleased that a majority has emerged in this position, which in the years to come maintains State aid directly to the children and the parents, which ensures that there is no inclusion of the grant into the income system, and which perhaps gives the whole Storting time to think about whether this is actually an area where you have to think more about parental responsibility and more about parental rights than you have to think about this being directly integrated into the community economy. It is important to decide what is municipal responsibility, but also what is individual responsibility. In fact, there I think that the Storting is going the right way today by making sure that individual autonomy is slightly greater than municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1364	The working party has four main objectives with the kindergarten message and the bet on kindergartens. One of them is that there should also be an offer for children with special needs. Kindergarten is especially important for these children. The choice of parents is not real until all parents who want kindergarten are offered it in the same way that those who want to be at home receive cash support. The starting point of the Labour Party is that kindergarten is the best offer for children when their parents are at work or under education. Reduced parental, graded rates after income and sibling mode are important to make the offer available to more people. I want to focus my article on some groups that might need a nursery more than other children. There are children with special needs, for example: children with a minority background. A place in kindergarten with Norwegian children makes it easier for them to learn Norwegian and integrate. It will also have an impact on parental integration, especially for mothers, when they meet Norwegian parents in kindergarten. The project with free children's playground in Old Oslo is so far successful. Schools note positive differences in children with a migrant background who have participated in this offer compared to children who have not had such an offer. Other children with special needs may be children with a special disability or a multi-disabled child. These children need a special and individual follow-up in a kindergarten — a well-organised offer. These children also need integration, and parents need relief in an strenuous everyday life. Kindergarten is an important teaching area for people with disabilities. Some children need special help because their parents do not master the role of parents for different reasons, including: due to drug problems. For these children, a nursery place can mean a lot. Some parents choose the nursery for the children who may need it the most, for the benefit of a cash payment. The Labour Party warned against this. We will strengthen the efforts of children in a difficult life situation. Cooperation between child protection and kindergarten must be strengthened for these children. Kindergarten can early reveal problems in a family and thus become an important aid. In the context of a cash support evaluation, a focus should be on whether or not kindergarten still reaches those children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1377	The speakers who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1381	First, the answer from the state council in the lines we had. She claimed that the center facility added 500 million. kr. in free media in addition to eartag 50 pst. That's not correct, we haven't added it to the setting. We've joined the Labour Party and the Right and turned the funds contained in the message into ear-marked additions up to 50 pst. – so that it is clear. The council claimed that I did not have cover to say what I said about the Workers' Party's relationship with individual rights to kindergarten, and that the Labour Party has not agreed to that. But on the Internet pages of the Workers' Party on 20 December last year, there were the following: ‘We will therefore propose, in the nursery notice, to legislate on childcare facilities for all those who wish to do so.’ In any case, the working party has not proposed it in this setting. I think it's quite okay that a change of position in relation to this, because I myself have no problem saying that we might do it. In the message, there is a greater need for municipalities to have the obligation to provide childcare space, and there is a certain difference between the provision of childcare space for all who want it and the obligation for municipalities to provide childcare space. I refer you to the answers that the Council of State has given to the Committee when this is the case. But what we can be a few about is that we still have many challenges left in the kindergarten sector, and that's what the Christian People's Party will be working on in the future. It is important that we reach the measure of full needs coverage. When it comes to cash support and its introduction, it is always our intention that the freedom of choice should be real, and it is only when a person is offered both babysitting and cash support for the smallest. We've had no intention of slowing down kindergarten expansion. Some municipalities have approached full child care coverage, some will wait and see what the real need is. Now one of these things is going to be surveyed, but we've always argued to the municipalities that it's important that we get enough kindergartens. I was a little indignant when I heard Anneliese Dørum say in his post that the Christian People's Party sees the nursery as a ‘useful place of residence’. There is something about the ear that doesn't want to hear. When one of the offensive articles we have had here today, we can claim that we view the nursery as a ‘useful place of residence’, a rather unthinkable place of residence. They want us to be placed in another booth, where we're passive in relation to the nursery. [[President clubs]] That's not correct. Could I be allowed to make a final explanation of vote, to save time when we're going to vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1399	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1402	I wish to refer to the Progress Party proposals in the configuration. On the one hand, if attempts are made with the social security model for up to three municipalities, reference is made to the cash support agreement. In this context, I will also refer to the agreement. It said that the tests were to be carried out when there was a greater level of equivalence in framework agreements between private and municipal kindergartens, in line with the conditions, and that there were municipalities that were positively set to use the model. I just want to say that these are the measures we are dealing with today, which are going to give greater equivalency between private and municipal kindergartens, but that we have a long way to go before we achieve it. That is why, as the proposal stands, we will vote against it. One of the other proposals of the Progress Party is to extend the cash support to 3-year-olds. I want to refer to the positive we've been given. We have received cash support for 1- and 2-year-olds, and it has to be evaluated. Then, in the next round, we need to focus first and foremost on getting full needs coverage. We have a piece left to go, with the background that we are also going to have an evaluation when it comes to the two years we have had cash support. [[The President clubs.]] On that basis, we will also oppose this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1411	This was a good explanation of vote! But it's registered, and the president will brief us when we get to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1414	Let me first say that it is with great disappointment that I record that the Christian People's Party is the party that is at the forefront of breaking agreements and intends to train this, so that it is not implemented. But that's probably not more than what you can count on when you look at other areas and how the Christian People's Party acts in this case. I want to spend a little more time on things that I have not received a response to. I challenged the representative of Greece earlier today to explain the Right Alternative Model. Is it so that the right with its model also wants to withdraw the transfers that are already in the framework transfers to the municipalities and collect them in the same pot? I also didn't get a response from Greece to this with a common model for a cooperation agreement, and whether they thought it would create diversity or reduce it? I would also like to continue with what is contained in the proposal to introduce the social security model into up to three municipalities. I see that this is based on the fact that we are essentially going to have full babysitting before such an experiment is introduced. It will be either in 2003, 2004 or 2005. We don't get these attempts in place, so we get them into the evaluation of the cash support, as I understand the Christian People's Party. I'm sorry. I believe that by having an experiment in one or two municipalities with exactly this with the social security model, one would have got a much broader basis to assess what the parents and children mean by needs coverage. Of course, the majority in this room could be surprised if a introduced social security model and that parents might have a different view of what needs to be met. So to the Right's alternative suggestion. I suppose I now get an answer to the questions I have asked the representative of Greece, because then I will already signal that we want to subsidize a single price scheme. If our proposal were to fall, we see the single price option to the Right as a good subsidiary solution on the road to greater freedom of choice, and all that was in the post of the representative Solberg from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1423	Then the representative Sandberg managed to get an explanation of vote within the speaking time. It's brilliant!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1426	At the bottom of the debate, I would just like to stress that our model, as the representative Sandberg was interested in hearing about, involves a state-owned price financing, as it says in the proposal. Of course, if a person receives a fully-fledged state-level price financing, it means that what is in the framework of the municipalities is to be withdrawn. That's a very clear assumption for our model. And as I also challenged the Council of State instead, it will give very clear responsibilities, it will give a very clear position of responsibility when it comes to the financing of kindergartens. But in the period up to 2005, which we have now agreed on, we will have to jeopardize this model. We have then believed that it is better – after all – to put in place an increased level of State aid. It's a step in the right direction, but it's not our goal to go that way very much further. We want everything to come up with a principle where the money follows the child – or kindergarten. With regard to the last point that Sandberg raised, it is clear from the intentions that we have, which I hope the Council of State and the majority also have, that in the case of a common model for an agreement between private kindergartens and the municipalities, there must be flexible agreements that have a clear framework but do not have a limiting effect on the diversity of the kindergarten sector. I think it's quite clearly established through various remarks that it must be a goal to be able to maintain the diversity we have in the kindergarten sector today, both in terms of life's vision, in terms of different pedagogics and in terms of operational form, whether it is municipal or private. The reason why we focus on these agreements is – and we say it clearly and we ask – that the actors in the kindergarten world, to put it that way, should be involved in designing the agreements. And to be very concrete, I think it would be a matter of course that the Landsförbund and other private kindergarten associations participate in these negotiations and agree on an agreement, so that we avoid 435 different agreements with 435 different content. The problem in the kindergarten sector today is that private kindergartens have largely been given the will and ability of each local government to invest in private kindergartens. There should be greater equality in treatment and greater diversity in childcare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1433	I would like to make a few brief comments on the reply to the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad. There is no doubt that her contributions were very critical in relation to the majority of the Workers' Party and the Right in terms of the lack of ability to enable the municipalities to increase the 30 p.m. share. And when we heard the post of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, there was no doubt that the central parties wanted to stand on the message, and that they would enable the municipalities – through more framework transfers – to follow up the 30 pst. share. We heard that very clearly instead. Then I have to put the question back on how the Christian People's Party and the Centre parties have thought. How much money do they intend to spend to give a full compensation for that 30 pst intention? municipal share? When it comes to this with an individual statutory act, Stortinget has now heard the representative Molvær Grimstad read out what was on the website of the Workers' Party, and has thus heard for himself that the representative does not have the basis to claim that the undersigned has taken up an individual legislative action.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1442	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1445	In my post, I pointed out what the central government had proposed in relation to making the municipalities able to take their lift in the nursery sector, to show that the center party had taken this seriously. I also said that we went in to increase the state bill to 50 pst. It is possible that I was not detailed enough in relation to that, but at least it was my intention to explain that we support the use of the funds proposed in the message, for an earmark up to 50 pst., that there is one way to ensure full coverage of needs. In other words, the state is providing more of the proceeds, and private kindergartens are getting an increase from 40 to 50 pst. But what I challenge the Labour Party was relative to signaling 80 pst, when we say 70 pst. by state and municipality. [[The President clubs.]] I'm asking for the cause of President, I have too little time here, but the rest of us get to the root.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1454	At the end of a debate, it has been easy to focus on what we disagree about. I want to end the debate by saying that we agree on a lot. There's a lot of plurality behind most of it, and where we're disagreeable, it's quite clear, and it has to be okay for the Council of State – if she's about to finish the debate with Molvær Grimstad at the bottom of her place – to work on the assumption that the Stortinget has said clearly what one thinks about the different sides. The labor party has said that we have ambitions of 80 pst. public funding. One can determine for the state, but one can not determine for the municipalities as much, but we still have ambitions of 30 pst. municipal support. What might be a little special about this case is that the Council of State is going to get a little busy going back to the Storting and tell us how things are going. It doesn't have to be in the form of proposals for decisions, but the Storting and the Committee are very interested in kindergartens, so we want to follow through on the whole process and get good information. A point was made during the debate here because we wanted so much back to the Storting. Yes, we will follow along, and the department has a very central role in collecting information on how developments are happening in kindergartens. It has also been easy in such debates to become a lot of about systems and rules for things. But this is primarily about the fact that the future generations will have the best growth possible, that young people can be safe in good kindergartens, and that parents can be sure that their kids are well. And that's probably what we're talking about, even though we see different tools, but a lot of us know very well that kindergarten is a good offer for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1464	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 398]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1477	Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1483	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on Norway's relationship with the EU's security and defence cooperation be annexed to the Protocol at the meeting of the European Parliament on 9 June 2000. [[ESDP]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1490	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-4, by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 5, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 6 and 7 from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President has understood that someone wants to give an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1505	In addition to proposal No. 5, which is from the Right, I would ask the Right-wing representatives to vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, which is a direct reference to the cash support agreement and an attempt to meet the point of attempts at the social security model in up to three municipalities. So I ask the Right to vote in favour of proposal No. 2 and 5 and the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1510	Short only: on proposal No. 5, from the Right, I would recommend that the Group of the Progressive Alliance vote in favour of that subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1515	I have to make a new explanation of vote when it comes to proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. It says that ‘The government is asking the government to launch an experiment with the social security model for up to three municipalities, cf. Inner. [[1997-1998]] S No 200 and the cash support agreement...’, etc. I will then refer to the agreement, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate experiments with the social security model in up to three positive municipalities to use this model. The tests shall be carried out when there is a greater degree of equivalence of the framework conditions for private and municipal kindergartens...» In short, we will vote in favour of that proposal, but under the authority of what is in the cash support agreement in relation to more equal treatment of municipal and private kindergartens. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1527	The President will feel that this was a post that went well beyond the framework of a explanations of vote, but the President has understood that the Christian People's Party too wants to vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Then we're ready for voting. So let's start with the proposals. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Individual entitlement to kindergarten is legalised with effect from 2004.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for minimum standards for the total staff of kindergartens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1548	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 3 and 4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to carry out a complete revision of the Kindergarten Act with a view to liberalisation and equality in the law between the different types of childcare services. Such liberalisation should also aim at reducing the role of the public in this area.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a large-scale report dealing with the consequences of a switch to the funding of the kindergarten sector where all government grants to kindergartens enter into the family and not into kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to extend the cash support scheme to 3-year-olds.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1574	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch tests on the social security model for up to three municipalities, cf. Inner. S. No 200 and the cash support agreement between the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left.» [[1997-1998]] The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1590	Has anyone voted wrong? If not, the President will notify her that she has voted against and that the proposal has thus been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1593	I know I'm a little late outside, but I'm going to believe that both the Left and the Center would vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1600	The President believes that this should have been clarified before we came to voting. Representatives of the Left Party and the Center Party must report in case, it is not enough for the Christian People's Party to report.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1603	I actually think the reason was that the president tried to interrupt the explanation of vote of the representative Molvær Grimstad. The explanation of vote was based on – and it has happened since the end of the debate – that new information has been received. She specifically referred to an agreement that also covered other lots. She was not at all outside of the explanations of vote, which is the prerequisite for voting. It is therefore quite natural that the Left and the Center parties did not have the opportunity to be aware of this, because they did not get that explanation of vote. The reason why we have explanations of vote is that Storting's decision should be in line with the Storting's opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1608	The President is fully aware that explanations of vote are for that reason. However, the President believes that these issues should be clarified before the debate is concluded, and that an explanation of vote should be based on the explanations of vote, and not on how Molvær Grimstad started its explanation of vote – with something quite different. It was not about the vote of either the Central Party or the Left. Is there anyone from the Center Party and the Left who wants to give an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1613	Since the head of the central party is not present in this committee today, I just have to regret that there has not been good enough coordination between the centre parties. For me this came a little quickly, and so I voted against it. It probably also did part of the others in the group. But if that's how to understand that this is relative to a previously agreed agreement, we will vote in favour. But I cannot understand why this was promoted as a proposal now, if an agreement had already been reached. That is why I was very uncertain and chose to vote against it. It will then be up to the President if she allows any new reconciliation or not. But this is the explanation that I did not vote differently than I did.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1620	Is it true that the Center Party is asking for a new voting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1623	Yes, that's the most correct thing – if we can get it done?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1628	With the approval of the matter, we take the vote again, but the President must say that this is very unregulated – in many ways. We shall then take proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, up to new voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-09.ana.ud812e1641	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government in the 2001 budget to submit proposals for user-driven financing of kindergartens, where public support is collected at a state-owned price that accompanies the child to the nursery parents chooses regardless of whether it is privately or municipally operated.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced that they will vote in favour of this proposal.
