ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e58	Honourable co-representatives! It was with sorrow that the Stortinget received the notice that the former payroll representative of the Workers' Party Valter Gabrielsen, from Finnmark, died on 23 December, 78 years old. Valter Gabrielsen was born on 4 February 1921 in Knarrvik, Hordaland, but grew up in Vardø. After mid-secondary and coastal ship examinations in 1939, he chose the fishing profession as his way of life. Valter Gabrielsen was early occupied by the coastal living conditions and engaged both politically and organisationally in the Norwegian Fisheries Team. In the years 1947 to 1965 he was elected to trust the Finnmark Fiskerlag. Gabrielsen was a member of Vardø City Council from 1947 to 1951, and of Nordkapp Municipality and Presidency from 1955 to 1965. From 1965 he was elected as a permanent representative to the Stortinget of the Finnmark Workers' Party and was a representative until 1981. With his background as a fisherman and a fishing vessel, Valter Gabrielsen was an independent member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee, and for the last eight years he was also the chair of the Committee. Here at Stortinget, Valter Gabrielsen became the leading spokesman for the coastal population. He was a man of cooperation, who consulted with others, and who facilitated for practical solutions for the benefit of those for whom he was chosen. In all his political work, he was committed to securing the living conditions of the coastal population and to fulfilling his task as their trustee and spokesman. An appropriate organisation of the Norwegian fishing industry, raw material issues, quota arrangements and increased commitment to maritime research were key concepts and a driving force in Gabrielsen’s political work. He had a strong will and faith that it was possible to create a good future for everyone. He was known for his contagious good mood and pleasant being, which made it easy to cooperate with him. And not least he kept the ability to glow for his affairs throughout all his years here at Stortinget. After he left office as a wholesaler, he continued his work for a few years for the Norwegian Fiskerlag, before he went into the ranks of the pensioners. It is with deep respect that we bring peace to the memory of Valter Gabrielsen. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e79	The representative Trond Giske, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e87	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e90	I allow myself to propose Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e97	Ursula Evje has been proposed as president of today's meeting. Other proposals are not available – and Ursula Evje has been unanimously elected president.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e107	1999 was a year of strong impressions. In April, I stood on the border between Kosovo and Albania and met an endless flow of Kosovo Albanian refugees driven away from their homes by Yugoslav authorities. In December, I stood on an obverse near Groznyj and talked to worn-out Chechen refugees while the artillery grenades struck down in the suburbs a few kilometers away. Such experiences are reminders that foreign policy is not just about impersonal forces. These are individuals – about their needs, interests and rights. Often it is even about the most fundamental of all rights, the right to life. It is important that such questions are put on the international agenda. There is no contradiction between active participation in international cooperation and the safeguarding of national interests. Rather the opposite. Active participation in broad international cooperation is increasingly a prerequisite for exercising influence and pursuing its own interests. This is a main reason why Norway has taken on and should continue to assume international responsibilities. The Government's objective for foreign policy is to promote Norway's interests and security, contribute to international peace and justice and protect human rights. For Norway, it is a key interest to contribute to stable and predictable conditions, especially in our neighbourhoods. Today’s presentation is based on these objectives and draws particular attention to the OSCE Presidency, relations with Russia and the United States, developments in Europe and the need for enhanced international cooperation. As far as the WTO is concerned, I refer you to last year's presentation of the Storting. The 1990s were the decade when conflicts in our own continent seriously pushed us into life. Developments in the Balkans and in other areas we previously considered remote proved to be of direct relevance to Norway. Our security is inextricably linked to security in Europe. It is in our interest to take responsibility for the security and stability of our own part of the world. The OSCE Presidency gave us the opportunity to do this. We took responsibility for a demanding period of time. The Presidency has helped to strengthen the image of Norway as a reliable and credible partner. In 1999, the OSCE faced some of the heaviest and most difficult challenges in its history. In Kosovo, the OSCE made a significant contribution to alleviating the suffering of the civilian population. The withdrawal of the OSCE post last March was a necessary decision because the security situation had become increasingly precarious. Today, the OSCE plays an essential role in the strenuous work of rebuilding civil society in Kosovo. However, the situation is very difficult. Extensive crime and the use of violence and harassment of Serbs and other minority groups are of great concern. We have to face up to the fact that the situation in Kosovo can get further worse before it gets better. But there are also promising features in the development of the Balkans. The recent elections in Croatia send a clear message to voters and leaders of other countries in the region, not least in Serbia. The new government in Croatia will face a considerable pressure of expectation with demands for speedy results. Here, as well as other countries, we must contribute. Developments in the Balkans continue to require extensive international political, economic and military efforts. Norway participates fully in this work. The objective is to contribute to democratisation and economic development in the region, thus facilitating better conditions for greater stability both within and between countries. On the Norwegian side, we give priority to the work of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, which could be an important stimulus to the political and economic progress and integration of the countries of the region in the context of Euro-Atlantic cooperation structures. The war in Chechnya marked the end of the OSCE Presidency. In several meetings with the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs, I underlined that a lasting solution cannot be achieved by military means. The OSCE is willing to assist in reaching a political solution. On the Russian side, this offer has so far been rejected, bearing in mind that the conflict in Chechnya is an internal issue that one wants to resolve without international assistance. The pressure for a political solution must be maintained. In the longer term, it cannot be excluded that the OSCE has a political role. In the short term, the task is to prevent a humanitarian disaster in the context of the Groznyj battles. When I visited Chechnya just before Christmas, I proposed a truce with a view to giving the civilian population the opportunity to escape the fighting. Unfortunately, the proposal remains the same. A main conclusion after the Presidency year is the need to strengthen the OSCE's capacity for preventive diplomacy. This was a priority task under the Norwegian Presidency. My visit to Central Asia last autumn convinced me of the importance of strengthening the OSCE's ability to address dawning conflicts at the earliest possible stage. There is a high risk of growing instability in the region that could require an increased OSCE exposure. We have placed great emphasis on strengthening the OSCE as an organisation and its ability to respond quickly and effectively in conflict and crisis situations. This is a key element of the Security Pact, which was adopted at the Istanbul Summit in November. The Security Pact will also strengthen cooperation between the OSCE and other international organisations such as the United Nations, NATO, the Council of Europe and the EU. We will follow the efforts to strengthen the OSCE's capacity for preventive diplomacy, including: through our continued participation in the OSCE troika. Development in Russia means a great deal to security and stability in Europe. Russian society is in a very difficult situation. Developments in recent years have been marked by political turbulence, economic collapse and the disintegration of traditional social security networks. The war in Chechnya today casts shadows over Russia's relations with the rest of Europe, with the countries of the Caucasus region and with the United States. Norway, of course, recognises the territorial integrity of Russia and the right to defend itself against terrorism. However, the instruments used do not matter. Russia has used massive military power. This causes considerable suffering to the civilian population and has caused a humanitarian crisis. This is not acceptable. Together with the United States and a number of European countries, Norway has contributed to putting pressure on Russia to end the war. However, even during this difficult period, it is important to maintain dialogue and help to involve Russia in European integration and cooperation processes. We are in a period of major changes in Russian policy. When President Yeltsin left on New Year's Eve, this happened in accordance with Russia's Constitution. Some irregularities in the parliamentary elections on 19 December are not reflected in the positive democratic developments in the country. However, it is too early to assess the importance of election results, which must also be seen in the light of the presidential elections in March. Economic developments in Russia are worrying. Nevertheless, we hope that the Russian economy will remain open and based on market economy principles. However, economic reforms are very late. The figures for investment and economic growth give little reason for optimism. Social problems are increasing, including: due to strong price growth, falling real wages and the fall in the value of the ruble. Many Russians today have a very difficult everyday life. Russia itself has to take responsibility for finding solutions to its problems. Russia itself must find its place and its role. At the same time, it is in our interest to contribute to a positive development. There is a broad international consensus, not least here in Europe, to support the construction of a democratic Russia. In Norway, too, there is agreement on this. Russia needs to be involved in broad European and international cooperation. We are actively developing cooperation with North-West Russia, both bilaterally and in cooperation with others. We have been engaged in the work of the European Union on the northern dimension, and we want to take part in the further efforts. Much has already been done by the Norwegian side, but we can and should engage ourselves further. We are therefore now reviewing the experience, priorities and instruments of Norwegian Russian policy. The goal is a more long-term, holistic and coordinated effort. In this work, we also look at the cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe and the instruments for food cooperation. This review will serve as a basis for further efforts to promote Norwegian interests in and vis-à-vis Russia, inter alia. as regards industrial development, the environment and resource cooperation, and to contribute to a positive development in our largest neighbouring country. Compared to the challenges facing large Russian society, the Norwegian contribution will necessarily be modest. However, together with other countries, in particular EU countries, our efforts can make an important contribution to the integration of Russia into European and transatlantic cooperation. Cooperation in the north plays an important role in our bilateral relationship with Russia. This is where the main gravity of our concrete cooperation takes place. The Barents Sea boundary is still the biggest unresolved issue. A solution to this will facilitate enhanced cooperation. Cooperation in the Barents region is characterised by the difficulties now experienced by Russian society. Among other things, the development of regional economic cooperation is slow. Humanitarian aid and health work have had to go ahead. At the same time, we have seen that Barents' cooperation, not least through people's people's contacts, has created openness and trust. Although we would have liked to have seen that we had come further, we have achieved results in terms of trade, environmental matters and nuclear safety. This gives reason to hope that, in some way, we will also achieve better results in other areas. The Baltic Sea Council is also an important forum for cooperation in our neighbourhoods. As Chairman, Norway attaches great importance to improving the coordination of comprehensive work in the region so that it becomes more effective. The forthcoming Minister of Trade meeting in Bergen in February and the Prime Minister's meeting in Kolding in April will contribute to strengthening political and economic cooperation in the region. Norway's priorities include: energy issues and people to people-to-people co-operation at county level. Barents' cooperation, the Baltic Sea Council, people for people's contacts with North-West Russia, Nordic cooperation, NATO-Russia partnership, the EU's northern dimension – all these are important aspects of our Russian policy, which must be seen in the context and which we are working to make better use of. However, we must have a realistic relationship with what we can achieve in the short term. Cooperation with Russia is a long-term investment in good neighbourliness and security. American policy goes into an exciting year. A new president is to be elected, and it is an event that not only occupies Americans but is followed closely in many countries. There is great tension about how the choice and further development of American domestic policy will affect the US's international commitment. The US's willingness to take responsibility and engage actively worldwide is crucial. Close security and defence cooperation across the Atlantic through NATO is essential for Europe’s and Norway’s security. The alliance is the central instrument for ensuring peace and stability on our continent. This is also in the interest of the United States. While cooperation in Europe is developing, the United States remains the only remaining global power – political, military, economic and cultural. Globalisation means that economic conditions play an increasingly political role. Here, differing positions can be adopted by the European countries and the United States, and frictions may occur. Political and economic cooperation in Europe is in American interest. The crucial thing for both the United States and Europe is partnership and burden-sharing, not rivalry. From a Norwegian point of view, it is therefore positive that the transatlantic dialogue is followed up with regular meetings at the highest level. The United States has this month the Presidency of the Security Council of the United Nations. We have noted with pleasure the increased American commitment to Africa, which is reflected in the work of the Security Council, among other things. as regards combating HIV/AIDS and conflict resolution. We also welcome the US's extensive efforts to achieve a lasting peace settlement in the Middle East, where Syria is also involved. Our bilateral relations are built on close historical ties and common values. President Clinton's visit to Oslo last autumn made these tapes visible and fixed. New cooperation initiatives were taken. We have a common view on many questions. At the same time, we have different views on some issues, such as: as regards trade issues, penalties and death penalty. Cooperation with the United States covers a wide range and will also have a major impact on Norwegian society in the future. Our partnership goes far beyond state cooperation. The United States is Norway's sixth largest export market, while American companies represent about 20 pst. of the investments on the Norwegian continental shelf. Norway, for its part, is an important supplier of oil to the United States. In particular, the Government is committed to further developing bilateral and multilateral cooperation with the United States on nuclear safety and resource management in the north. Nuclear and environmental problems can only be solved through international efforts. The United States has a key role in this cooperation and is also engaged in the Barents Council and the Baltic Council. We have a number of possibilities in our relationship with the United States. These will be exploited by the Government. The basis for the reconstruction of the Europe that World War II had put in ruins was a strong vision of the need for a more densely woven continent. The cold war and the division of Germany made it impossible to follow this vision across Europe. At the beginning of the new millennium, Europe has been given the opportunity to realise the vision of the post-war years. The basis is for broad cooperation across previous lines, on economics and trade, on development and distribution, and on security and security. A number of organisations contribute to this cooperation – the OSCE, NATO, the EU, the Council of Europe, EFTA, alongside regional forums such as: The Barents Council and the Baltic Council. My full account of the Greatness last year was devoted to Europe's development, with particular emphasis on the European Union. The government then announced that it would submit a separate communication later this year to the Stortinget on Norwegian European policy. Cooperation in Europe is characterised by development and change. Nor is Norwegian European policy static when the environment changes, even though our institutional relationship with the EU through the EEA is established. The EU enlargement process, the implementation of EMU, reforms in judicial cooperation and developments in security policy affect the future of the EU. This also affects the EEA and our own situation. In the Communication, the Government will address the various processes of change and the challenges they create for our European policies. EU enlargement with the CEECs is an important building block for a more cohesive and collaborative Europe. The goal of the enlargement process is increased security, social and economic development and enhanced democracy in our neighbourhoods and on our continent. At its Helsinki Summit in December, the EU Member States laid the groundwork for all candidate countries from Central and Eastern Europe to be negotiating for future membership during the month of February. All three Baltic countries want EU membership. Estonia launched negotiations last year, and in view of this, there is reason to welcome the fact that the basis for negotiations has now been laid with Latvia and Lithuania, as all the three countries have worked for a long time. However, the road to membership is long and demanding. Candidate countries are making different assumptions and, after all, will accede at different times. They all have big challenges in front of them. Enlargement will also pose significant challenges for the EU. Strong forces want further deepening of cooperation before the next enlargement can happen. Other moves in the opposite direction. The economic challenges are also significant. However, there can be no doubt that security and economic and social stability across a larger part of Europe will be of great importance to Norway as well. Therefore, it is in our interest that the enlargement process evolves in a way that does not create new undesired dividing lines. The government wants Norway to make an active contribution to this through the tools and opportunities available to us, in our bilateral cooperation with the candidate countries and in international organisations. Through this work, we take care of Norwegian foreign policy interests, while at the same time making our contribution to development in Europe. The decision at the Helsinki Summit to grant Turkey EU candidate status must be a historic one. It could prove to be of great importance both for the development of Turkey itself and for the relationship between Turkey and Europe. Turkey itself has the primary responsibility for further development. There is a long way forward, especially with regard to human rights and democracy. From the Norwegian side, we have focused in recent years on developing dialogue and cooperation with Turkey across a broad spectrum, on security policy, democracy and human rights, on economic and social development and on energy and industrial policy issues. The basis is for greater breadth and intensity also in EU dialogue and cooperation with Turkey. There is reason to welcome this development. Increased economic and social development and thus also stability in this part of Europe will serve our entire continent. The EU enlargement process is entering into a more intensive phase, in which negotiations on complex and comprehensive areas will start with some of the candidate countries. Several of these areas affect important interests for Norway and our EFTA partners in the EEA. An enlargement of the EU means enlargement of the EEA. The government is following the ongoing development of the enlargement process, both in general and in relation to specific issues affecting Norwegian interests in an enlarged internal market. Through EEA cooperation structures, we have regular dialogue and exchange of information with the Commission and the Member States. We have also strengthened the direct dialogue and contact with the candidate countries on their priorities in the negotiations. We are now conducting a systematic monitoring of Norwegian interests in different industrial sectors, not least in the fisheries sector. In this process, we will benefit greatly from the knowledge and insight that exist in working and business life and in a variety of other environments and institutions. At its Helsinki Summit, EU countries took an important step towards enhanced security and defence cooperation and towards a better European capacity for crisis management. The aim is for the EU to set up, on a provisional basis, new bodies for European crisis management — a Security Committee, a Military Committee and a Military Staff during March this year. By 2003 a military force of between 50 000 and 60 000 men shall be established. The EU shall subsequently be able to launch its own crisis management operations, in accordance with the UN Charter. The decision of the EU Summit in Helsinki underlines that NATO will continue to be the basis for the collective security of its members and has an important role to play in crisis management. In parallel with the EU process, institutional cooperation between the EU and NATO is further developed. The aim is mutual consultation, cooperation and transparency. The government welcomes this development. In our view, increasing European capacity for crisis management will strengthen our common security. That is exactly why we want to make our contribution and take our share of responsibility and risk. The Helsinki Summit was not the end station, but the first stop of a process. The work on establishing the necessary structures will be followed up by the Portuguese and French Presidencies. Practical follow-up and implementation could take longer. New procedures for practical cooperation shall be established and forces brought together. What will this mean for European and transatlantic cooperation? What will this mean for Norway’s foreign and security policy situation? A key challenge is to maintain and strengthen transatlantic links, based on a new burden-sharing where Europe takes a greater part in the responsibility for security in our own part of the world. We want the new structures that are now being built to help strengthen the links between Europe and the United States. The development of defence and security policy in Europe has considerable momentum. The process now under way may involve the EU developing, over time, security and defence cooperation to include something more than so-called Petersberg operations, i.e. use of military resources for crisis management, peace operations and humanitarian operations. Developments could result in the EU countries gradually discussing important issues between themselves and increasingly meeting with coordinated positions in the alliance. Such a development would obviously have a significant impact on Norwegian interests. This may affect one of the pillars of Norwegian security policy, namely the central role of NATO in all issues relating to its own security. The Government is working to ensure that the solutions and forms of cooperation currently being developed do not weaken NATO’s position as the central forum for discussion of defence and security issues. In the short term, it is important to contribute to the establishment of good forms of cooperation between NATO and the EU as early as March from the establishment of the EU's temporary structures. These must, on the one hand, meet the need for efficiency and good use of resources. On the other hand, they must ensure adequate transparency and transparency between the two organisations and between them and each Member State. The NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in December showed that there is a broad consensus within the alliance on this. The second key issue for us is to achieve a satisfactory link for Norway and the other allied non-EU countries to the new structures that are now being established in the EU. This work has the highest priority in the Government. The size has been kept informed of the positions and proposals we have made and of our assessment of the results of the Helsinki Summit. The government is now in constant contact with central EU countries, including the Presidency, to deepen Norwegian views and clarify our possible contributions. It is important to ensure that our interests in relation to the new temporary structures are safeguarded in the best possible way. The NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in December showed that we have broad support for our views. The notifying country indicated the need for connectivity already during the transition period from March. They also underlined the need to involve the non-EU European NATO countries in dialogue, consultation and cooperation with the EU. We have already made a significant contribution to European crisis management. The efforts of Norwegian military and civil personnel in conflict areas such as Bosnia and Kosovo are examples of this. More than 1,200 Norwegian women and men are currently serving in KFOR in Kosovo. At the same time, a large number are involved in the civil peace process, both through the OSCE and the UN, and through the great work done by humanitarian organisations. In order to take our share of responsibility in the future, we need to strengthen our ability to contribute to international operations. Here we are facing a significant national challenge. We are in the process of adapting Defence better to international operations. The government has a big message about this – St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99 — Proposed concrete proposals that will allow Norway to attract up to 3 500 people from all sectors of defence in a few years’ time. The response time will be significantly reduced compared to today. The strength will make a significant contribution to crisis management, both within a NATO framework and within a UN framework. From the Norwegian side, we are also prepared to make these forces available in the context of EU-led operations. As I have already explained, we assume that we will have satisfactory arrangements for our participation in this area. The EEA Agreement takes on important interests in our relationship with the EU and its Member States. The Agreement guarantees Norwegian industry equal access to the internal market, with some exceptions. Cooperation in the EEA is dynamic. New EU legislation is assumed to be permanently integrated into the EEA in the areas relevant to cooperation. This is a demanding form of cooperation. It requires that we assess the impact of new legislation under development in the EU as early as possible and that we seek to influence its design in line with our needs and interests. This places great demands on our ability to know and understand, and then strategy and influence, as early as possible in the processes. It requires systematic and coordinated efforts at many and different levels. Not all single cases in EEA cooperation are simple, with Norwegian eyes. This is not the case for EU countries either. The challenge is to find solutions that are acceptable to all and which are based on respect for national assessments and priorities. As I said in last year's Europe statement, the veto right is negotiated in order to be used. Its use has to be assessed in relation to a specific case, and we need to balance instruments with the result we want to achieve. We also have concerns about taking care of Iceland and Liechtenstein. It is also often the case that issues that appear to be problematic for one or more countries can give rise to new discussions and processes in the Member States. Such developments may create new opportunities to exercise influence in processes and cases which are also of particular importance to Norwegian interests. The government is actively using these possibilities. We have registered with interest the White Paper of the European Commission on food safety and the views expressed there. In the future, Norway will face some issues of concern to the EEA. The Directive on access to the legal protection of biotechnological inventions opens up the possibility of taking patents on inventions of biological material as on other material. This concerns important issues of principle and ethics and our obligations under, among other things. Biodiversity Convention. It is currently not clear whether, according to its content, the Patent Directive falls within the scope of the EEA Agreement. The government is now actively promoting Norwegian views on these issues. As you know, the Netherlands has brought an action before the European Court of Justice for the Directive to be declared invalid. Norway and Italy have supported some of the Dutch arguments to the Court. The question of the inclusion of the Directive into the EEA Agreement has so far not been raised by the EU. As regards the three directives concerned concerning food additives, we have said from the Norwegian side that we can accept them, provided that we can continue the existing national provisions for some of the substances in question. As you know, the Commission rejected a request last November. Sweden and Denmark have received a corresponding rejection. Denmark has decided to bring an action before the Court of Justice as regards the content of the decision. The government is now assessing whether Norway should use the access we have to express our position before the European Court of Justice. The government has been actively promoting our views on these directives for a long time. Assessments of the risks associated with some of the substances are subject to professional discussion, including in several EU countries. Among other things, a report from consumer organisations in five EU countries shows that the content of so-called nitrosamines in meat products is consistently too high in relation to what is considered to be accepted daily intake. As we understand it, Denmark will use this report in its case before the European Court of Justice. The government has now asked for up-to-date technical advice, in the light of the Commission's rejection last November and new professional knowledge, including: the consumer report referred to. Before the issue of additives is dealt with in the EEA Committee, the Stortinget will be submitted as its own case. The practical cooperation in the Joint Agency between Norway, Iceland and the EU in Schengen is now well under way, but has not found its final form. The Government has been committed to ensuring the widest possible participation of Norway and Iceland in EU discussions on Schengen-related issues. With regard to the date of full participation of the Nordic countries in Schengen, this is likely to happen during the first quarter of 2001, and not in the autumn, as originally planned. This is the result of the EU's plan to review the preparation of the Nordic countries. The Norwegian preparations follow a previously established plan. The Minister of Justice will come back to Stortinget with more detailed information on this. War and conflict have marked the entrance of the 21st century. The need for enhanced international cooperation is greater than ever. It is therefore essential to contribute to strengthening the role and legitimacy of the United Nations and the Security Council in ensuring international peace, stability and security and the use of power. Norway is a candidate for a seat in the Security Council for the period 2001–2002. This is a natural follow-up to the Norwegian willingness to take responsibility, including in a broad international context. It is important to stress that membership of the Security Council is not an objective in itself but an instrument to promote important foreign policy interests and views. Candidateship must be seen in the context of our human rights, peace and mediation work, as expressed, for example, in this context. Middle East, Guatemala, Sudan and Sri Lanka. Membership of the Security Council will give us a new platform for this commitment. We see it as particularly important to follow up work on international crisis management, human rights and humanitarian issues. Through the OSCE Presidency, we have gained experience that could benefit the Security Council. We have something to contribute. In Kosovo and in the Balkans, we have worked to ensure constructive cooperation between the UN, the OSCE and the EU. Such coordination of resources, organisations and personnel has proved to be important but very demanding. Experience so far has shown that there is still much work to be done to further develop cooperation models and to ensure an effective division of responsibilities and work between the different parties. We want to draw on these experiences also in other parts of the world. We will therefore take an initiative to discuss cooperation between the UN and regional organisations such as the OSCE, ASEAN, OAU and OAS in crisis management and prevention diplomacy. On the Norwegian side, we are also committed to continuing the reforms of the UN system. The efforts of Secretary-General Kofi Annan in recent years have led to a more coordinated and effective organisation. However, there is a long way to go before the target is reached. A minimum must be that all Member States pay their contributions so that the organisation has the resources to carry out the tasks assigned to it. Prior to the UN General Assembly for the autumn, a summit will be held at state and government level, the so-called Millennium Assembly. It will take into account the future role of the United Nations. The Secretary-General has proposed that the summit focus on the three pillars of the UN Charter: peace and disarmament, development and human rights. From the Norwegian side, we have supported this proposal because we share the Secretary-General's ambition to make the UN a leading organisation in all these areas. That will also be the starting point for our work in the Security Council. The Millennium Assembly is an opportunity for the world community to gather on a new agenda for the work on the main challenges of international policy. This agenda must not only consist of big words but must lead to tangible results for people's everyday lives, for their basic needs and security. What is needed is concrete and coordinated action to meet poverty and development, peace and stability challenges. My recent visit to Asia was a reminder of this. We will take our share of this responsibility. Only through a broad international commitment will we have international influence and thus safeguard our own interests. And only in that way can we contribute to the fact that next year might become poorer on the kind of strong impressions last year had so many of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e303	The President will propose that the Secretary of State’s statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e317	The starting point for this interpellation is the large influx of asylum seekers and refugees experienced by several municipalities, but in particular Oslo, while it is claimed from a number of teams that municipalities do not provide the funds needed to address the challenge satisfactorily. My starting point for addressing the problem is: 1st@item: inlistbox I want the Government to take measures to ensure that this influx no longer goes to Oslo, but to other parts of the country where it has so far been limited – among others. This is because it will make it easier for, for example: Oslo Municipality to pursue a better integration policy, and because the challenges for Oslo are already so comprehensive that the municipality does not have the power to deal with them satisfactorily. A better distribution and faster deployment in free-ranged municipalities will lead to a much more humane policy towards asylum seekers currently in reception.2. I want to contribute to ensuring that those municipalities that have a large influx of asylum seekers and refugees are provided with the financial resources that will enable them to meet the challenges in a good way. The fact that today, according to a number of media projections, there are an estimated 14 000 people in reception indicates, in my opinion, at least three things: 1st@item: inlistbox Many asylum seekers and refugees are admitted without reason. 2nd@item: inlistbox The duration of treatment is too long. 3rd@item: inlistbox Last but not least, the conditions offered to municipalities to respond to asylum seekers and refugees are too poor. UDI has asked Norwegian municipalities to receive 8 000 refugees in the current year. Comments in the media, for example the Newspaper, suggest that it is unlikely that the municipalities are willing to receive such a number. The main objection, according to the paper, is that housing is difficult to find and that asylum seekers will burden an already tight social budget. From the KS team, it has also been pointed out that the financial grants for the teaching of refugees make it impossible to provide a sound standard of training, which helps municipalities to use their own resources to provide inadequate training. Another significant point is that the integration grant is five years old. As far as I understand, two years ago the Ministry authorized to grant a special grant to municipalities with many refugees who had been in Norway for more than five years. This department has chosen not to do so. My question to the Council of State is: Will this be introduced? And since there is a conflict with the real costs of the municipalities in relation to the state grants they receive or do not receive, will initiatives be taken to calculate public expenditure in relation to the asylum and refugee policy by municipality, county and state? This will, in my view, be a necessary measure to clarify the amount of transfers required by municipalities in order to pursue a responsible integration policy. It is easier to agree on the solutions if the figures are agreed. Furthermore, it will help to pursue a better budgetary policy in this area too. I have understood that it is also this government's policy to try to spread the influx of refugees and asylum seekers across the country. It must be obvious when estimated at 40 pst. Of the non-Western immigrants – the refugees and asylum seekers are gradually moving to immigration – live in Oslo, where this policy has failed. My question to the Council of State will then be: are you willing to implement more radical solutions? In Denmark, for example, a law on integration whereby refugees and asylum seekers are to be distributed between municipalities. They are to be distributed throughout the country after the municipalities have agreed to a distribution between themselves. Municipalities that already have many immigrants, asylum seekers and refugees do not receive new ones in several years. The host municipality is responsible for housing and language teaching, and it is only after three years that it is possible to move to another municipality of your choice, unless you get a job in a new municipality. But if you lose your job, you stand without a host municipality and therefore without a safety net. My question to the Government is whether it is willing to look at the Danish model when it comes to spreading refugees and asylum seekers in Norway, so as to avoid the ghetto tendencies you see in some parts of Oslo. Experience has shown that the majority of those who come here as refugees and asylum seekers remain in the country and eventually become immigrants. As an Oslo politician, it is my wish that the Government will take this challenge seriously. In Oslo, on 1 January 1998, 85,550 immigrants lived, making up 17 p.m. by the Oslo people. Of these, 65 006 were from non-Western countries. For example, in the city of 06 Old Oslo, the inhabitants of western lands were a population of 33.1 p.m. For example, in district 09 Søndre Nordstrand: percentage 26 I will give some examples of challenges this poses to the Municipality of Oslo: Today, many asylum seekers, refugees and immigrants do not associate with the Nordics at all in their daily lives and therefore do not learn Norwegian, which, in my view, is an absolutely necessary criterion for a successful adaptation here in Norway. The pattern of residence shows that immigrant groups with equal background, ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious, apply together, as they are used to from their home country. This means that it will be very difficult to implement an integration policy. Furthermore, some municipalities, and especially when Oslo, cause special problems which they do not give the necessary prerequisites for solving. For example, in the order of 27 pst receive. of the non-western immigrants social assistance, while the average for the northern and western immigrants is around 5 pst. In the 1999 draft budget of the City Council, it was estimated that nearly half of the social expenditure in Oslo would go to refugees and immigrants. Problems of the nature of overpopulated apartments, slumping of living conditions, foreign customs and ways of life give rise to confrontations and increasing violence and other crimes in residential areas. The large influx creates further problems in a housing market marked by lack of apartments and a very high price level. In part, precarious needs have had to be remedied by the rental of expensive shelters. The housing deficit is estimated at 30 000 in the Oslo area and will increase in the years ahead. This has been tried by introducing coercive laws to address the problems. For example, the Stortinget, against the votes of the Progress Party, adopted on 13 November 1998 amendments to the law on housing law, which means that the municipality, county and state have the right to purchase up to 10 pst. of the shares in the right of residence, irrespective of what the statutes grant access to. The housing conditions in Oslo, the high prices and the growing-up environment for children all lead to Norwegian families moving increasingly out of the capital, most of them to nearby municipalities such as Akershus, Østfold and Vestfold. In Oslo, apart from Norwegian, the students have 96 different languages as their mother tongue. It is taught in and on 18 primary languages in primary school, and 165 native language teachers are employed in Oslo School. In some parts of the city, the number of such students is well above 50 pst. I could have supplemented the list of challenges, but that does not give rise to this interpellation. My point and wish is that the government realizes that its policy in this area is inadequate and that it is making a course conversion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e374	In the autumn of 1990, the Ministry of Local Affairs appointed a selection, hereinafter referred to as the Committee on Calculation, which was mandated to carry out a survey of municipal expenditure on the settlement and integration of refugees and persons on a humanitarian basis. The committee is composed of four representatives from the municipal sector and four representatives from the state. Since 1991, the Committee has produced a report on local government expenditure on housing and integration every year. The report is public and has been sent to Stortinget. In the case of the settlement of refugees, municipalities receive a grant from the State for adult education in Norwegian with a social knowledge of minority languages and an integration grant to cover the average costs of the municipal sector for the settlement and integration of refugees in the year of residence and in the following four years. The contribution to adult education in 1998 was DKK 335 per year. teaching hours and 16 SEK per month Attendee time. The government covers expenditure on education up to 850 or 3000 hours per year. person, depending on the need. This year, the integration grant has increased from 290,000 to 300000 DKK distributed over five years per year. refugee resident in the municipality; In addition, the State provides additional grants for the housing of lone minors, disabled persons and persons over 60 years of age. The surveying of the Monitoring Committee includes the expenditure of municipalities on social assistance, their integration measures and their administration, as well as all relevant expenditure related to teaching in Norwegian with community knowledge for adults. In the 1998 report, the social assistance survey is based on information collected by the Statistical Central Bureau and includes 95.5 pst. of all refugees residing in Norway after 1 January 1994, broken down into a total of 393 municipalities. The monitoring of expenditure on integration and administration is carried out in a sample of municipalities, taking into account the geographical distribution, representation of small, medium-sized and large municipalities, the proportion of the target population in total, and that municipalities with both long and short experience in housing work are represented. In 1998, 20 municipalities were in the survey, among them Oslo, who have been in all surveys since 1991. 35 pst. of all refugees residing after 1 January 1994 were resident in the 20 sample municipalities at the end of 1998. Average payment of social assistance per year In 1998, a refugee who provides the basis for integration grants in the sample municipalities was DKK 137 995. The average payment of social assistance to refugees in the municipality of Oslo was below the average for the whole country in 1998. The same relationship applies in the monitoring of costs of integration and administration. Here again, Oslo is slightly below the average for the whole country. The integration grant follows the refugee for five years after his/her residence, so that Oslo and other relocating municipalities have their rightful share of it. After five years of residence, the refugees are to be regarded as ordinary residents. Now, the number of immigrants in municipalities is included as one of the factors that form the basis for the regular framework transfers, so that municipalities with many immigrants will receive funds in this way as well. In the case of expenditure on training of adult refugees in Norway with social skills, the State and the local government sector have different perceptions of what the grant will cover. The calculation committee therefore operates with two terms of expenditure. The State considers that the grant should cover the cost of teaching salaries, administration, educational material, travel and childcare. The municipal sector also includes expenditure on teaching facilities, energy, cleaning, maintenance, etc. Average cost per month teaching hours as the country calculates, will be 506 kroner, while there will be 599 kroner with the costs included by municipalities. Expenditure on education in the municipality of Oslo was below the country average in 1998 compared with both. The educational grant scheme is designed to make the grant different from the municipality to the municipality, depending on the number of pupils in the classes. The average country-wide grant was DKK 497 per year in 1998. teaching time. The grant to the Municipality of Oslo was the same year NOK 532 per person. teaching hours, the highest in all the sample municipalities. There is no basis for saying that the municipality of Oslo comes out worse than the other municipalities in the country in terms of state transfers to the settlement and integration of refugees. Oslo Municipality has been represented in the Calculation Committee every year as one of four for the municipal sector. Oslo is also the only municipality that has been included as a sample municipality in all surveys. The proportion of the target population of Oslo is so large that it has a significant influence on the average cost of the calculation sample. In the 1998 sample municipalities, 8 354 refugees are surveyed, of whom 3,492, or nearly 42 are from the municipality of Oslo. The 1998 report shows, in my view, that Oslo is meeting its expenditure on the settlement and integration of refugees. Using averaging calculations as a basis for the amount of grants, some municipalities will get more than they use, and some will get less. The intention is that this will stimulate municipalities to do a good integration work that will enable refugees to support themselves as early as possible, thus reducing public expenditure. The challenge for municipalities is therefore to find good solutions and learn from the municipalities that succeed in this work. A common feature of these municipalities is the good functioning of cooperation between the labour market seat, adult training and other municipal institutions. The government believes that the work done by the Billing Committee, where the state and local government sector are equally represented, provides a good picture of municipal expenditure related to the settlement and integration of refugees. The report of the committee will therefore continue to provide the basis for State transfers to the local government in this context. Of course, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will be at the service of additional information if desired. I also want to add that we have a distribution practice. When it comes to the settlement of refugees and asylum seekers, we do not follow the model that Denmark has, but we have a distribution practice where it is a goal for the Government to have refugees resident in as many municipalities as possible. So it's true that a lot of people choose to move to Oslo after a period. But then it is important to clarify that under the Social Assistance Act, the municipalities, if refugees and asylum seekers receive social assistance, have the right to send them back to the municipality from which they come. So basically, the people who choose to move to Oslo after a time, people who have to take care of themselves. It's people who have settled in a municipality with integration grants, with training, and who, if they get a job in Oslo, are to be seen as any other citizen who's going to support himself. There is also some background to the fact that the municipality of Oslo has lower average costs of housing and integration than other municipalities have. There are many people who move here after they have lived in another municipality for a period. Of course, it is desirable that there should also be a possibility of getting a job, and it is of course desirable that we have a good spread even after the five years have passed. But just as for anyone else who chooses to move to Oslo to get a job, we also have to respect that there are many within this group who choose to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e402	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm a little disappointed that with the experience you have, you haven't gotten any further in the process than you have, so you realize the need for something more radical to be done in this area. It is a well-known matter, and it is said from all the political groups, that the lack of integration is one of the greatest contributions we have today to racism. The articles of the Council of State just illustrate my point in the interpellation, that there is between those who are going to cover the expenses, that is to say, the Government, and for example. The central association of municipalities is a significant disunity about what is in the figures. For example, I can. refer to a statement in the Municipal Report of KS refugee consultant Nina Gran, where her claim is quite clear that the financial subsidies are too poor. As I said in my post, there are 14,000 who are today in reception, and the comments in the media, in the newspaper and the newspaper, for example, are based on the fact that it is unlikely that the 8,000 that the government has asked for will be distributed among the municipalities of the year that comes, as the government's goal is. The most nearby and obvious problem here is perhaps the housing allowance. It has been said once in history that lies, ‘fucking lies’, are not as bad as ‘fucking statistics’. This is probably some of the points here, that there is disagreement, and in my opinion it underlines the need for a cost calculation that is clearer and that can clear the way out of the doubt and disagreement that we have in this debate. The other benefits of such a calculation are that it can help to remove some of the myths relating to costs — for good and for bad. I also believe that it will contribute to a more open, rational and prejudiced debate on refugee and asylum policy. If this debate is not taken, it will further strengthen the basis for the emergence of racist and xenophobic attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e416	I agree with the representative Danielsen that we should hold a nuanced debate, which should ensure good integration, good settlement and that our new countrymen come to work as quickly as possible and become part of Norwegian society as soon as possible. But I have to say that the way Danielsen's representative initially drew up this debate, by describing areas in Oslo where there is a large proportion of immigrants, almost like ghettos – with crowded apartments, with high crime, etc. – there is no constructive contribution towards a more nuanced debate in this area. With regard to distribution practices, yes, it is complicated to get municipalities to say yes to settlement. We're going to settle between 8,000 and 9,000 refugees this year. We have been put at the disposal of approx. 5000 housing units. It is therefore important that no more municipalities choose to do as Os municipality, which has a leading party rapporteur, and refuse to accept refugees on a principle basis. In this way, at least there will be even more people who have to settle in the municipality of Oslo, and that will increase the possible problems that Dag Danielsen is facing here. It's a fact that the cost of social assistance in Oslo is lower than the average for the whole country, precisely because there are many who come here, who move after they get work here. It's also the case, as I've said, that the cost of teaching is lower in Oslo than in the rest of the country, while Oslo actually has the highest grant per. teaching hours throughout the country. The fact that they have lower costs in Oslo is also related to the fact that many have had their Norwegian training before coming to Oslo. It is my intention to take the necessary steps and make sure that we can improve in this area. That is why I am in close contact with the Municipal Councils, and we aim to organise conferences around the country, not least to get rapporteurs and others in the municipalities working on this difficult field to speak in a way that enables us to ensure the exchange of experience between municipalities that do the best, to the municipalities that do the worst in these areas. Because it is quite obvious that we have a long stay in reception, that we have a long stay time both before the application is processed and before we are settled, a burden is placed on those who are in reception, and that it is more difficult to ensure that those who come here become useful people and can get to work as quickly as possible. Many of them have been subjected to heavy loads in their country of origin before coming to Norway, and it is important that they are received and taken in the best possible way so that they can make an effort even after they have arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e427	First, I would like to say that it is positive that the representative Danielsen is raising the issue of asylum and refugee policy in Oslo, because there are many of those who come here to the country who want to live, and that is where it is easiest to get work. These are also other notes from the Progress Party, which otherwise only sees that the solutions to all the challenges we face in terms of asylum and refugee policy are to close the borders. The immigrants need to come here, and we need the immigrants. The question is just how we can achieve good integration. The Labour Party is not satisfied with the Government's integration policy, and that is why we took this up during the budgetary procedure and got a majority in order to have a broad review and evaluation in this area. Where are the plugs in the system? There are too many people in asylum centres waiting to settle in a municipality. And we know that the longer they're in reception, the harder it gets to integration. The working party is concerned about today's situation, and we believe that the municipalities need to have conditions that make the settlement and integration not stop, as we have a sense that it is now doing. [[Eye]] It's not like the representative Danielsen is trying to give the impression that the immigrants are just a cost item for the municipalities. I would say that if we are able to give immigrants something extra in the initial phase in terms of rapid and good language training, work training, recognition of previous education and kindergartens and, not least, they can do the same with others in the workplace, then this group will pay taxes in the same way as all other citizens and contribute to value creation, and that will give a plus in the municipal accounts, also for Oslo. The Labour Party also believes that if the Government lacks money to achieve a good integration policy, the Stortinget must be informed. We haven't got that. We need to have a better dialogue with the municipalities, where costs are agreed. And when you agree on the costs, it's reasonable for municipalities to cover their increased costs of receiving asylum seekers and refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e442	I think it is important to remind the Council of State that the settlement of refugees is a task that the municipalities must be involved in solving. And since the municipalities are going to be involved in solving this, it's a task that the municipalities are doing. It is totally incomprehensible to me and the Progress Party that the central government does not take the municipalities seriously when a constant response is given to the fact that the costs of settling refugees, asylum seekers and people who have come here on a humanitarian basis, often – although there are variations in which the state council was involved – are greater than what they get covered by the state. It is clear that then there is a distrust between the municipalities and the state that goes on that the state is not to trust in these important questions, and then it is no wonder that a lot of people who are in state reception accumulate. And when the director of the UDI can go out and say that everyone who sits in the receptions is going to the municipality of Norway either the municipalities will or not, then it's clear that local self-government will be put to the test. I think it is absolutely crucial if the government is to have credibility and trust in the municipalities – and that is also a cross-political agreement in some municipalities – that the costs incurred by a user in this settlement have to be reviewed, so that the municipalities can meet the real costs. And then it's not useful to have an average calculation based on the average total costs in the country, because you know that housing prices are different from parts of the country to parts of the country and from municipalities to municipalities. That is why I believe that the Council of State should have taken seriously the invitation that the Progress Party has made through this interview, the initiative that the representative Danielsen has taken here, namely that the Municipality of Oslo and all the others about 390 municipalities that have received residents, will have to cover the real costs. It is at least a hope, even though the Workers' Party's representative Eye was concerned that the Progress Party will completely close the borders. We won't. We will receive those who really need a helping hand and a port of refuge. We also want to take our share of the quota that Norway as a nation will accept, but we do not want to introduce people who come on a wrong basis, who declare false identity and are allowed to become. What the Workers' Party's representative said here, namely that one has to look again at the costs incurred by municipalities in settling those who have been in state reception, at least promises good for the future. It's a good thing if you can reach out a hand to Kommune-Norway in a serious and real way, so that the municipalities can meet the costs they have after all in the important work of integrating immigrants into Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e453	The topic addressed by the interpellant is important for an increasingly large group of Norwegian folklore, and it is particularly true in Oslo, which Danielsen also represents. Thus, it is right to focus on the challenges that, in particular Oslo, but also Municipality-Noreg generally faces in its assistance to central public authorities when it comes to housing and providing the most possible normal living conditions for immigrants in Norway. It is with great pleasure that I record the Council of State's response that it will be taken and will be taken into account to solve this problem in the near future. I also think it is right, as the Council of State notes, that an extended contact with the Municipalities' Central Association, which is the local community's stakeholder organisation, is important when it comes to motivational work in order to increase the local authorities' attention and increase their willingness to take part in immigrants, to invite them as their new inhabitants. Not least in the context of an active district policy, this could be a positive contribution for many municipalities to increase population growth, and in the context of the current year's budget, the integration effort was also raised to make it easier for municipalities to take care of immigrants in an acceptable and defensive way. The goal must be to give the most normal living conditions for an exposed group of immigrants, and I have confidence in the Government that it will take the initiatives that are adequate to bus the most possible of them. 13 000 as at present in the reception of asylum. I think this will be closed. The Grand Duchy and the Municipal Committee will be particularly concerned about these issues and follow them up in close cooperation with the Council of State and the Ministry of Local Affairs. Dirfor I believe that the extraordinarily large contraction that Norway has had, and that is the background to the somewhat acute situation we see today, will be able to get a good solution relatively soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e462	The interpellation is most relevant, at least as long as it is a fair economic settlement for a government-enforcement solution. Now it's also so that the interpellant in its post went a little bit further than that and brought in a number of other elements that might not get the same applause in the broad assembly. With regard to the municipality's ability to buy up on the housing page, the interpellant's position may be complicated for problem solving as easily as possible, but in this context, it is a degression. The Committee has, in several settings, been concerned with this particular problem, which the interpellant mainly addresses. An evaluation has been carried out since 1998 to determine whether the scheme meets the objectives of efficient resource use and the rapid and good settlement of refugees, but the theme that is at the heart of today is second-hand housing. So I don't think we can stand behind the Council of State's claim that this is reasonably arranged through the Calculations Committee. It's a concern that things remain to be corrected, and we should like to see a broader evaluation than what seems to be coming, at least in the hall today. When the Council of State refers elegantly to the return options as the tool to be triggered here, it seems a bit simple. If it had to be in theory, everyone who has community experience knows that it looks better on pressure than in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e469	I believe that the key to solving the problems that both Danielsen and Sverre Hoddevik now finally pointed to is in the fastest possible settlement in the different municipalities. Those who get a real connection to and become integrated into a community and feel like part of it will not want to leave it. Then there is no need for any return. In several contexts, both in the ministry and in the Grand Duchy, the centre has taken up the importance of the fastest possible settlement, and not only that, but also the importance of facilitating labour market integration as quickly as possible. Through it, municipalities receive tax revenue instead of social expenditure related to our new residents. I will also refer to the proposal Marit Tingelstad had last year to get good, practical and useful housing solutions. Let's look at Lillehammer. We can learn a little bit from what we did there, building simple homes for refugees who can easily be moved to other places as needed and possibly also converted to student homes of their own, combined refugee and student homes. We also have too few student homes in this country. We know that getting good housing for immigrants is important, for good, pleasant surroundings are the best starting point for becoming a positive social partner, both socially and in the workplace. As I see it, we are faced with a situation in which different groups of immigrants will be a necessary contribution to our working life and an enrichment for social life. We have many interesting examples of community calling about immigrants and really fighting to keep them living in the municipality, and they go to work daily, as we all do. I'd like to warn against Danielsen's thinking about municipal captivity. I think we should boldly claim that the same law applies to all citizens of Norway. Everyone will obey the same law, but as a result of everyone's having the same law, all Norwegian citizens will also have the same rights. Danielsen also warned against strange customs and ways of life that we find strange. Then I would like to remind you of perhaps the most important piece of Norwegian insurance food in several generations, which has kept us alive and given us vitamin C throughout the long winters, even in the time we could not get any fruit, namely the potato. We got it from the Indians. And we still have things to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e481	Following the presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs today, this debate may come in the light of the fact that refugee and asylum policy in Norway is justified by the need for protection by persecution and not in relation to Norwegian society. The society of the future will be multicultural, and policy must have a positive starting point. One must therefore have a will for inclusion and not just a will for problematisation. I should like to refer to the proceedings of the Municipal Committee on Budgetary Affairs this year, but also to Document No. 8:87 for 1997-1998 and Innst. S. No 192 for 1997-1998, of 28 May 1998, in which we wanted to draw up a much more active and targeted integration policy: Getting started much faster, having active measures where a learner’s language and work at the same time, have refugee-specific measures that allow a completely different approach to be included in the past. The point is that we offer language training, work and housing so well that you can go from control and passivity to inclusion and activity. Everyone's going to make a profit. This is what I think the majority of people in this room, including the municipal minister, agree on, but I'm going to be a little bit daunted by the angle he gives his answer, because there's going to be a kind of one-sided defense speech for some operations, and those operations are problematic. This costs. Among other things, in the autumn budget, I asked the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research what it would cost to finance 100 pst. the municipal expenditure on the training of refugees and asylum seekers. The answer from the department is that if you're going to finance this 100 pst. State, 270 million is required. kr more to the municipalities to get this to. It is a reality that the Department of Maritime Affairs has concluded. So there's more to it than the government education package that the government put in the budget, that is, the school initiative. It is eaten up more than by a lack of government funding in this area. SV has expressed itself fully in this area. We want a state full funding of these expenditures. We also want a similar system in the case of single minor asylum seekers. Last time in the news today, we heard that very many of these lone minor asylum seekers have major traumas that make them need special follow-up. These require quite different arrangements, and the costs of laying in the municipalities may vary from NOK 10000 to NOK 15 000 to NOK 300000 to NOK 400000 per year. the applicant. It must ensure that we look at these expenditures again and seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e492	As my colleague Signe Øye from the Workers' Party said in his contribution, the Workers' Party is also concerned that the municipalities should cover their real costs. In the post that Karin Andersen now had, she pointed out a letter, and that we lacked 270 million. kr. I think then, Council of State, that when you first explain how we come up with these calculations, with the Calculations Committee and the composition, it might be nice to hear both from the Council of State and from the Advancement Party if you want to attend and allocate 270 million. kr. I am not quite sure that the Progress Party in its budget would have been involved, because what I think the Progress Party is more concerned about is making accounts visible. The Council of State indicates that Os municipality outside Bergen has said no to several refugees, but they have not just said so. They have also said that they will set up an account of these refugees, and that they will be fined if they do not meet up to Norwegian hours etc. It will be interesting to see what the result of this progressing window will be. I also record that the Progress Party actually has a resolution of 39 p.m. in that municipality. This is going to be very exciting, because I don't think we're going to accept refugees even when the accounts are available. Now we have to wait in excitement for what the Progress Party says, but I feel that the question of the interpellant Danielsen is a little – yes, yes, we will see – in the light of what the municipality with the only rapporteur, the Progress Party, has in Norway, is acting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e501	The President would like to point out that direct speech is not the form to be taken from the Parliamentary Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e504	When we have this debate, I think it is important to distinguish what we are discussing and what the debate is not about. This is not and has not been intended by me to be a debate on Norwegian culture and its value. Of course, I'm open to foreign cultural impulses and think that many of them are positive. The representative Gulf of Quail referred to potatoes. Of course, most of the food we all eat comes from other countries. We also have foreign cultural impulses in all other cultural areas. Norway has not been the leading country in terms of cultural development. I have also not claimed that this is a matter of accounting, nor has it been suggested that some accounts be drawn up for immigrants. What I've asked you is whether you can clarify the public expenditure, so that you have a better basis for making sensible decisions and thus ensure that municipalities receive the financial subsidies they need to pursue a sensible and responsible integration policy that is in everyone's interest. Furthermore, I have deliberately chosen to try to put this debate at a level that would prevent it from being characterised as xenophobic, etc. I have e.g. not to mention the costs of police and judicial expenditure resulting from criminal statistics, but that does not mean that I have to refrain from mentioning actual facts. An open debate must just mean that there is access to bring forward also the negative things. This, of course, does not mean that I see immigrants as just a cost item. Saying something like that is far from the reality that exists here today. The representative Signe Eye said that immigrants need to come here and that we need immigrants. I will agree with the representative Eye that we have many refugees who need to come here and that we should try to help them in the best possible way. We do that by helping them in the neighbourhoods. When we have a population migration in the world today that is largely economically dependent, because people want to improve their standard of living – and I understand that they will – I don't think Norway will solve this problem by taking as many of these people into Norway as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e515	Let me start by saying that I very much appreciate the commitment that has been shown in this debate, because it is to the most extent an important interpellation that underlies it. I agree that we still have a lot to do in this field, and that we can do many of the problems better. I look at this very seriously. That is why I have also taken several initiatives towards the municipal sector in order to get closer dialogue. In my opinion, this is not just about money. Although the cost coverage to municipalities is very important, it is also about a lot of other things. It is not least about attitudes, it is about ways to organise them, and it is about sharing experiences between municipalities. Also between comparable municipalities, there are enormous differences in the cost of housing and integration work, simply because they have been organised very differently, because they have a very different approach to these issues. It is true that there is disagreement between the municipalities and the State on some points in the calculation basis, and it is true that the municipal sector does not fully recover its costs from the basis established by the Calculation Committee in the context of the average considerations. The representative Vidar Kleppe says average calculations are not good enough. That's true, but in my opinion, there's no better tool than just averaging. First of all, as I said, there are great variations between comparable municipalities. It is not possible – I think nobody thinks – to distribute blank cheques to cover costs, regardless of the level of costs in each municipality. Of course, there must be some incentives to do so at the best possible cost. And when I say as much as possible, it applies not only to the economy, but also to the results obtained in relation to getting refugees and asylum seekers to work quickly. That incentive must be there. It's right there today. Someone can take advantage of it very well, others can't do it. It's obvious that this is the correct thing to say here, that e.g. in Oslo, the level of costs is high. But very many of those who come here for secondment are people who basically have to take care of themselves, and who also largely manage themselves. I agree with Mr. Hoddevik that return options are not a desirable tool to use. But when it is produced as if everyone is moving to Oslo, regardless of whether they're doing it or not, and that Oslo doesn't get to cover its expenses, I have to say that this is regulated by the state. There are also opportunities to intervene here, although of course there is no desirable model. I have said that we have a lot of messed up, but I will also finally say that there is an active policy in this area in order to improve. That is why we have also reorganised large parts of the foreign administration, large parts of the way in which we solve the problems, precisely in order to be able to pursue a more active policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e532	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e546	I hope that this inter-pelling debate will not develop into a debate on which parties do the most to solve our huge drug policy challenges, but that we can jointly reach the steps that need to be taken in this area. First, I would like to point out the need for a much stronger commitment to prevention in order to prevent young people from starting to test and use drugs. I am pleased that a unanimous increase has rejected the liberalisation of our drug policy. Unfortunately, what was previously a major urban problem has become an ever-increasing problem throughout the country, including in small municipalities. In the media, reports are still appearing that young people are taken for possession and use of drugs. There is no simple task for parents, school authorities, etc. to detect the use of drugs by young people. When the Stortinge addressed the action plan for reducing the use of drugs, on 1 December 1998, the focus was on prevention. The importance of involving parents, school, health care, child protection, police, church and non-governmental organisations in this work was underlined by the Stortinget. Furthermore, the emphasis was placed on cross-border cooperation. The action plan created expectations of a much stronger economic focus on prevention. Unfortunately, these expectations were not met in the budget adopted by the Stortinget in autumn 1999. If we are to have some hope of success in the prevention work, we need to be willing to invest more money in this work, for example. through projects anchored locally, regionally and/or municipally. Of course, growing-up conditions for children and young people are important. The projects, if they are to be successful, must be based, inter alia, on: ideas and recordings from young people themselves. I have registered that e.g. the project ‘Be Together’ in Grimstad has had a very great success. There's been 100 pst in some school classes. accommodation from pupils and parents. Municipalities, police, churches and non-governmental organisations have made a tremendous effort. In my own county, Hedmark, there has also been great success with the "Be Together" scheme. “Come and dance” at Johan Fasting has been focusing on dance training and restless dance parties for many years. During a visit to Iceland in the spring of 1999, I also saw the position of ‘Komid and Dansid’ on Saga Island. I hope the Council of State will take positive action and encourage all our counties to give priority to this work. Such a call must be followed up with appropriations to make this work possible, and I hope the Council of State will promote proposals for appropriations already under the revised national budget in our time. It's rare the state will be able to get such a good payoff for invested capital. By reducing the use of drugs, the gain will be formidable. And most importantly, all young people who do not get into drug hell will have a quality of life that is impossible to measure against public funds. The same will apply to the relatives, who often have the same difficulty as the addicts themselves. So over to the second part of my interpellation. Adopted on 16 June 1999 in the light of S. No 215 for 1998-99, Recommendation of the Social Committee on the proposal of Mr Gunhild Eyeågen and proposals of Mr John I. Alvheim on drug policy transmitted by Mr Stortinget on 16 February 1999, and Mr Stortinget then decided, as you know, to submit a number of proposals to the Government without any discussion. But it was a strong wish from the Stortinget to get a quick clarification from the Government on the submitted proposals. What measures have the Council of State taken to speed up the monitoring of heavy addicts? Have all our municipalities started working on this and developed action plans? Media, including: The evening post has focused on the lack of overview the authorities have of the growing drug problem. The paper further claims that professionals, police, researchers, etc. In the opinion of the authorities, there is a lack of transparency and, therefore, Norwegian drug policy is based too heavily on high levels of darkness. Does the Council share this view? I have been told from many quarters that there are too tight bulkheads between treatment agencies at local level. The Storting asked the Government to consider the proposal that the prevention work should be organised locally more cross-border. Has the Council of State taken the initiative to ensure such cross-border cooperation and will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the law if it makes it impossible or impedes such cooperation today? The majority has previously decided that the provision of methadone-assisted treatment should be made nationwide. The formal decisions have been taken to ensure this, but unfortunately, what we are recording is that approx. 350 drug addicts are in line for methadone-assisted treatment and do not get the help they are promised. Professionals fear that multiple overdoses are the result of treatment. What will the Council of State do to reduce/remove this queue as soon as possible? Or does the Council of State think that we must accept that drug addicts do not receive the help they are promised? According to the Evening Post, the price of a drug addict who walks around without a treatment plan is half a million dollars a year. The treatment costs NOK 40000 per year. The drug addict, according to the same newspaper. The government has also been asked to assess the provision of buprenorphine treatment for addicts awaiting methadone-assisted treatment. Before Christmas, I got a recording from a desperate mother in Oslo. In a metropolitan part of Oslo, a serious scheme was developed for several addicts who were to be treated with Subutex. Doctors and social workers should be responsible for the scheme. It was ensured that there was no need for accommodation, education and work. But this offer cannot be implemented until the plans are approved by MARIO. At the request of me, the Council of State has stated that the application must be included in the queue for methadone-assisted treatment, which is therefore about approx. 350 people. Why cannot the provision for buprenorphine treatment be treated on its own without enqueuing methadone-assisted treatment? To avoid misunderstandings, I would like to stress the importance of a wide range of drug treatment services. In particular, it is important to focus on treatment facilities that make addicts drug free. Furthermore, Stortinget asked the Government to assess the establishment of injection rooms staffed by health professionals. How far has this work come in the Government? As the Council of State is aware, the decision on transmission contained eight further proposals. I hope the Council of State will provide a briefing on the fate of these proposals as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e590	Let me begin by stressing that I share with the representative of Skogholt the concern of young people that they are dealing with drugs. I am happy to have this on the agenda. Since 1968, the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research, SIFA, has been monitoring young people’s consumption of drugs. The developmental 'take the temperature' tests, which are alarming in several ways. The average consumption of alcohol has increased dramatically in recent years. When it comes to drugs, the most marked change is that the number of those who say they have ever used cannabis, cannabis resin or herbal cannabis has increased from 8 pst. in 1990 to 18 p.m. in 1999. In Oslo, it's 27 pst. by the 15- to 20-year-olds who say they used these substances. Recent calculations carried out by SIFA show that the intentions of the younger age groups are stable and that the increase is primarily due to those who are somewhat older. More and more young people are also saying that cannabis should be sold freely. We can talk about a liberal drug trend among young people today. There's a cause for concern. At the same time, it is important to note that these developments are going down and can therefore change – or be changed. We should not fool ourselves into believing that drug use among young people is developing independently of the use of adults. There's a connection between the adult drug habit and what's happening in the youth community. We know that the use of drugs is also increasing among adults. Therefore, it is important to stress that prevention has to do with restraints and that each individual has a responsibility to stop the development. Parents are important role models for young people. Making parents aware of the relationship between their own drug habit and that of their young people is so important. Prevention is largely about giving good growth conditions in the home, in the school and in leisure. I have spent a lot of my time in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health working against drug abuse. In May 1998, I presented an action plan for reducing the use of drugs to the Stortinget. The plan has laid the groundwork for prevention so far. There are strategies and areas of action to strengthen the efforts of the staggering and prevention of drug abuse. In addition to others: Campaigns, the creation of drug policy advice and new information material have helped to build up the response system in municipalities towards the most demanding drug addicts. The ball has been an important bet area. I've been busy helping to strengthen my teachers' skills when it comes to prevention and drug problems. The topic of drug addiction is taken into account in the curriculum of home knowledge, the Directorate of Drugs has developed teaching materials in collaboration with the teachers' higher education institutions, and it is developed educational material. The seven regional competence centres for drug issues have been given a position to reinforce their efforts in schools. A particularly important objective of this initiative is to enable students to settle their own opinions and to take their position on the use of drugs. They'll get training to resist, to say no. The action plan has made an important contribution, and I want to do what we have done in relation to the Storting, when the action plan period is over in 2001. Nevertheless, I have learned that we may not use the resources we have to consult fully and in the best possible way in the prevention area. Developments, as the representative of Skogholt sees, need to be stepped up. I've wanted to see how we can handle this development more offensively. Therefore, I have taken the initiative to review the preventive device critically. One element of the review has been our State Consultant's analysis of the organisation and function of the Drug Directorate, as I mentioned in 1998. My conclusion of the review is that there is a need to revitalise preventive work and that this can best be done by bringing efforts closer to local communities, where the most important work is done. Now I am working to reorganise parts of the state's management responsibilities and efforts, based on this report and further assessments. Through a reorganization of the Directorate of Drugs, I will support more targeted actions through four strategies: strengthening local and regional work on prevention, strengthening the policy/strategic work in the field of prevention, strengthening the knowledge of drugs and disseminating such knowledge, improving the efficiency of managing individual management tasks currently in the Directorate; I briefed them yesterday in the directorate that we are now starting such a process, and I want to present to Stortinget a proposal for the reorganization and use of resources during the spring. The representative of Skogholt asked the question of what measures have already been taken, in the light of the 13 transmission proposals. Let me refer to the letter of 25 March 1999, which is included as an attachment to the Inn. S. No 215 for 1998-99. There's been some progress until March last year. Let me further refer to Document No. 7A, reply to a proposal sent from the Stortinget without a motion for a resolution to the Government on the 1st half of 1999. This document contains a reply letter, dated mid-July, to each individual question. However, it is useful to be able to go through what has happened in these areas after that time. Two of the questions asked in vain prevention. We'll be able to talk about this in the future. However, I would like to point out that the new organisation of the prevention field will be able to facilitate the local organisation of work more cross-cutting, as the Stortinget emphasises. The Ministry has also developed in 1999 a guide for municipal action plans on drugs, where cooperation and health are key elements. Eleven of the transmission proposals took action against the heavier drug users. I now want to comment on some of the most important actions taken in 1999. The provision of methadone-assisted rehabilitation has been made nationwide through the establishment of regionally responsible centres. At the end of 1999, there were 600 addicts who received methadone-assisted treatment. In fact, the development of this offer has progressed rapidly when at the same time it is intended to justify it. The individual addict must have a satisfactory response and control apparatus around him and it will take time to build up the apparatus and competence needed for a successful follow-up. It is now also open to trials of medicament-assisted treatment of drug addicts, such as treatment with Subutex. In the 2000 budget, there has been an increase of 33 million. Dr in the drug field, and this also includes medicament-assisted rehabilitation. The funds are distributed to the centre of this week. At my initiative, the 1999 budget year saw and distributed 3.9 million. kr for low-threshold healthcare provision in the 13 municipalities with highest overdose deaths. The following projects are currently in operation. Measures seem to work well and after the goal of reaching those who need it the most. There is reason to believe that they may have had much to say about the evolution of overdose deaths. Resources have been provided for the continuation and extension of such measures this year. When it comes to primary care courses for hospital settings, I agree that this is an important measure to prevent overdose deaths. The municipality of Oslo will therefore be made available to municipalities in the country through the regional competence centres for drug issues. One of the transmission proposals concerns the establishment of injection rooms. I replied in my letter that I was prepared to look at the legal aspects of such a scheme. Afterwards, the United Nations Narcotic Control Council has done well to the Danish Minister for Health that the establishment of injection rooms is a violation of the International Convention on Drugs, which has also ratified Norway. I have therefore not found it appropriate to proceed with that question. I believe that the strengthening we are now receiving from low-threshold healthcare is likely to be far more important. In some countries, contact between health professionals and drug users in such injection rooms is ensured. Here, we seem to have gotten this in the low threshold health supply. Bu actions for outsourced groups have been proposed in the Equalisation Communication and prioritised in the 2000 budget. During 1999, a working group was tasked with reviewing the capacity, quality and organisation of the drug addict’s intervention apparatus. The reports for the Nesvåg selection have been out on a wide loop. The ministry is now working on a follow-up to the working group and hearing aids, and I want to come back to Stortinget on that matter in the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e635	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. As I mentioned in my post, it is absolutely necessary to speed up the registration of addicts and to draw up an action plan. This is the task of the municipalities. There can be no doubt that we operate with great darkness, as professionals and police claim. I also believe that the drug field should be given its own State action plan. Other areas of health and social policy have such plans. Prime Minister Bondevik stated on 3 March last year at a press conference that the drug problem is serious and increasing in Norway, as in other countries. He thought that time was ripe to reconsider drug policy and that an independent drug commission should be set up. A few months before this, Jusprofessor Johs suggested. Second, a separate drug commission should be set up. I feel that responsibility for action, action and coordination has almost been powdered at different levels of administration. Does the Council share this view, and does it see the need for a more comprehensive drug policy? And further: When will the Government establish an independent drug commission? Many of the municipalities and county councils, which have a great responsibility in the drug field, lack financial resources and unfortunately sit at the bottom of the table when scarce resources are allocated. It is therefore important that the Ministry transfers more of the resources from central to regional and local. Unfortunately, many addicts seeking help in detoxification do not receive it, as funds are not put at the disposal of treatment institutions so that the abusers can find room and help with these institutions. Some institutions also do not accept those who are in need of treatment. Of course, institutions were supposed to take people who were in need for detoxification/treatment. Then it is absolutely essential to get a good result from the treatment that we have a much better back-up than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e648	I believe both the representative of Skogholt's post and my post stress that this is a matter with a lot of pages. In fact, in these 23 minutes, we've still not been able to discuss -- or mention -- all of the factors that are involved here. I share the view of the representative, Mr Skogholt, that there is a need for more soundness in this policy. That's what makes me take the initiative both to review the preventive work to see if we get enough out of the resources and the human resources that are made available for this work today. In the Drug Directorate alone, the 61 settings – not all on prevention, but many – and 137 million. kr. Then we know that in addition, states, municipalities and a lot of organizations and individuals are putting on the team that is called prevention. That review is necessary. Furthermore, a review of treatment provision is needed. It has also been shown in the Nesvåg report, both in terms of supply-demand ratios, in terms of quality, and in terms of organisation and funding. Then the question is raised: do we know enough? To that I would say, we know more than enough to trade. We know more than enough from SIFA research and other studies to say that drug use is increasing. This applies to both the number of people and places in the geography of this country. It is therefore important to intensify efforts. So the question is, is it putting down a commission that is now the right way to go? In fact, I believe that the two most important initiatives to move forward are already well under way, both in terms of the follow-up of the Department and the Government, and also in terms of the follow-up of the Storting and the local community, including a review of prevention and treatment provision. Let me also say that the reorganisation that is now taking place in the Directorate of Drugs will lead us to get an institute with completely different possibilities than what we have now, to link research and dissemination together.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e663	It's absolutely true that we know more than enough. Nor is it anymore that the drug user is just one who has fallen out of school or the safe youth settings of our big cities. Drugs are now available everywhere — in schools, outpatients, in the military and in the workplace. In all places where only a few young people live, drugs are now available. Users can also be common school students, and there are also many more girls than it was just a short time ago. Many people use drugs every weekend without their parents discovering anything. Friends know that, but they should be so tolerant that they will not gossip, or they are in the same boat and are not busy getting it out. Only when a long time has passed, often three to four years, do they lose control of their lives, and perhaps parents, siblings, at least some people in the community discover that they are actually drug users. This is a development that has exploded in just a few years. All positive prevention measures are therefore very important to set in motion as soon as possible, anywhere in a small area throughout Norway. Treatment must be initiated quickly when treatment is required. It should be forbidden to ask a drug addict who will finally accept treatment, to wait until all financial guarantees, whether municipal or county, are in order, or until they are drug-free. It is a hopeless requirement for parents and drug addicts to become drug free before they are given a treatment facility. It's also a completely unnecessary requirement, because we know that detoxification can happen in a reassuring way in institutions. They also get a completely different start to treatment if they're in an institution from the time they're down, say those who experience it in close proximity. Finally, I also have some questions to the Council of State, and Einar Olav Skogholt was talking about one of them: Where does the independent drug commission put down by the Prime Minister last year? I understood from the answer to the council that that might not be the right way to do it, but maybe we can hear a little bit more about it. And how far has the Government come to work on Document No. 8:41 for 1997-98 on the prohibition of goods and advertising relating to drugs, which was dealt with here in the United Kingdom on 28 April 1998? In the Action Plan for the reduction of drug use, the Government says that it aims to make an outrageous proposal on this issue in the spring of 1999. Now it's almost spring 2000. Where does it go?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e679	There is no doubt that the Minister of Social Affairs has a great deal of commitment to the issues of drug policy, and the Minister of Social Affairs should be honored for that. I think we should soon get away from the fact that the drug problem is a specific Oslo problem. I'm afraid that's not it. It's a national problem, and I think it's going up too much in this country. Drug use is spreading violently across Norway’s countries, and in a number of smaller areas, the problem is perhaps even greater in relation to the population and a possible treatment facility than it is in Oslo. Among other things, we have in Kristiansand, a major drug environment. Haugesund also has a well-known drug environment, and in my own country, in fact, what is involved in drug abuse is an increasing and growing problem. Among other things, we see: of the statistics on profitability in Norway problems reflecting the fact that many drug addicts actually have to finance their consumption in terms of profitability. I think that when it comes to the development of care, something else has to be done. I think we need more treatment places, because we just can't afford to let more people die while they're waiting in the treatment area. In the case of the Subutex problem itself, the Council of State said that money has now been allocated to the Subutex treatment centre. I still think we have to look into the eye that even Subutex has to be spread around to treatment centers also elsewhere in the country than in Oslo. We need to get a regional offer for Subutex. It can be managed through the device we have today, for methadone treatment, but we need lower criteria to be treated with Subutex than is used for methadone treatment, because it turns out that the threshold is too high. Unfortunately, many do not get up, so they get their problems further reinforced. We have to be able to get to a system where general practitioners have to be able to print Subutex for the treatment of patients. It is necessary to put an end to the attitude of the Health Inspectorate and some county doctors towards the doctors who use this form of treatment for their patients. We also have problems around the ecstacy practice, and I think we just see the top of the iceberg there, and especially in relation to the mental problems that will come later. We already have a huge pressure in psychiatry, and unfortunately, I think that the problems will be further exacerbated by the increasing and widespread use of ecstacy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e694	There is an important issue that has been addressed by the inter-pellant and that has been highlighted by both the inter-pellant and the previous speakers. One could initially just refer to the statements of the Minister of Social Affairs, but I want to draw up a couple of relationships. Firstly, I think it is important to see drug use among young people in the context, and that is also the action we are going to take against this drug use. As regards these measures, it is necessary, inter alia, to: take into account the relationship between use and, in particular, early onset of substances such as tobacco, alcohol and drugs. Against this background, it is important to focus on the importance of early prevention — prevention must come sooner than expected — and that this prevention not only focuses on drugs but also on the other substances, such as tobacco and alcohol, which in many ways become the gateway to later drug abuse. Weakness and indifference in relation to e.g. The problem of alcohol will also undermine drug prevention. It's important here to have the attention to the parents and probably at an earlier stage than we've done before. When addressing children and young people, it is important to make use of the resources of youth organisations working against alcohol, drugs and other drugs. Young people are the most vulnerable to youth, and young people are more likely to be peers than living fossils such as the interpellant, the Minister of Social Affairs and the undersigned. I assume that 'fossil' is a parliamentary expression, at least when you include yourself. Young people have ideas, and young people have resources, and these we have to use. Then we must not give up on the goal of a drug-free society. We need to prevent drug use, and we need to deal with drug use. Methadone and buprenorphine are important substances, but they are not treatment. It's substitution, and it's essentially giving up. This may be necessary in many cases and the criteria may have been too strict. But this is and remains an emergency solution, a substitution, and not a treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e707	However, the President would point out that in terms of the use of the term ‘fossils’, the President considers that it is better related to biological and geological contexts, but also finds no reason to react since the representative Ness himself was in terms of the difficulty in doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e710	As everyone has said, we are facing a worrying situation in our country as regards the prevalence of drugs and drug abuse. Unfortunately, more and more young people are willing to or are taking the opportunity to try out drugs. This has led some environments to believe that the legalisation of lighter substances is the way to go. I am glad that there are no parties here on the Stortinget who have fallen for the temptation to go that way. It is primarily a mobilization of responsibility in the home and family and attitudes of society that can stop access to drug testing. In this regard, I would like to say that although the Right supports the whole heart to make methadone treatment available and is also willing to try out treatment with Subutex and other such means, there is a fine balance between the necessary help, including purely medical, to advanced drug addicts who can no longer be hoped to make a drug free, and the signal effect it can give out to society that it is not so dangerous, because I do not get out of it again, then it is help to get by continuing to be addicted to alcohol. Treatment is always important, not least when we know that we are really lagging behind in relation to those who want to get help to get out of their drug problem. But fortunately, there is also some positive development, not least in Oslo, where we see that last year – at least at the beginning – there was a decrease in the number of overdose deaths and fewer calls. However, as important as treatment is — as others have been — the last Are Næss prevention, and only a successful prevention strategy can reduce access to the drug environment. Therefore, I must admit that I am somewhat concerned that the Government and the Labour Party in this year's budget have not been willing to give priority to the prevention and increase of the appropriations for the prevention field as much as we would have liked. That's why it's a little strange, I think, when the interpellant says that the expectations of increased bets on prevention were unfortunately not met in the budget that the Stortinget adopted for the current year. This is a responsibility shared by the Workers' Party with the Government. When we had a budgetary cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party and the government parties on the budget of the last year, we got an increase in addition to what the Government had proposed. That's not the case this year. The Government and the Labour Party failed to vote in favour of the Right’s proposal for an increase of 5 million. It is worrying when everyone agrees that prevention is the most important and effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e724	The interpellant is dealing here with a very serious social problem. To meet this, we need to focus on several measures at the same time. The most important thing is to prevent the recruitment of addicts. Now it may look like the development of the youngest has begun to flatten something out, and if that's right, it may indicate that information and awareness-raising work is leading to. In order to prevent new groups of young people from becoming addicts, we need to ensure that good youth services are available. Youth will seek fellowship with others; they will have challenging activities. It is also important for all children to experience security and to gain an understanding of their own worth. The good growth environment is a fundamental foundation for the development of healthy youth cultures. The attitude-creating work must start early. The school must be an important actor here. We must also be observant of the dangers of environmental change, as when young people go to new schools and travel to new places of study. I know that some high school students have information collections for the students at the start of a new school year, where students are briefed on leisure activities in the area, and at the same time there are signals that they need to be critical in the choice of the environment. Such arrangements should become routine in all schools. It is a crossroads of thought that the poor youth environments are often open, inclusive and easy to access. But whoever's engaged in a leisure activity he's interested in, it's sports, music, outdoors, chess, political work, won't fall so easily outside. Overall, it is important that the widest possible range of dedicated services is available in youth settings. I consider the social minister's conversion of state prevention as an important measure. It is right to move the operational effort into the counties and to the environments in which they will operate. I consider that to be an effective answer to the questions that are being asked today. The drug directorate no longer had the desired prevention effect. It will also be necessary to raise the awareness and accountability of young people themselves. As a society, we need to set up with positive stimulus, advice and influence. But at the same time, we must convey the message that everyone has his own responsibility both for himself and for the influence they give to others. In particular, I would like to point out the danger of different popular party cultures where new drugs are being tested. In order to provide information on the hazards of these substances, the media could be a very important actor. I am thinking about a wide range of different media, from TV to youth magazines. At all, I think it's important that we, as politicians, get to know what your youth is reading and trying to fit in with an impact agent here. Drug use is currently concentrated throughout the country. Strengthening police action is therefore important in this prevention work. In the districts, where conditions are less and more transparent, police efforts can easily detect unhealthy environments at first and facilitate their prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e739	The initiative taken by the representative of Skogholt in this interview is commendable. As the situation develops in this area, there should be a basis for an almost continuous debate in this house. We spend a lot of time discussing matters of much less importance. We're facing one of our biggest societal problems here, and the problem only increases no matter what we put in traditional instruments. It seems clear that what we've done so far is just flicking on the surface of a shot that rots from within. If we are to expect to reverse developments, we must be willing to invest significantly more money in prevention. We also have to start seeing things in context and not least take the consequences of the relationships we see, which are partly obvious today. I'm not surprised by the evolution. We've gradually got a society that, regardless of value commission, just gets harder and harder, where almost everything is about money and material things, and everything appeals to the individual's egoism. The TV screens run over by the buying press and violence. At the same time, we have opened the locks for alcohol use and give the impression to young people that alcohol belongs everywhere. In addition, we soon don't have a single forum where we meet across generations. Youth is largely left to itself. When school is over, they meet a society that is becoming more and more a hunting ground and not a community. Now I'm going to draw a picture with a rough pen, and I'm going to make it quite conscious. I have always wondered how difficult it is to find money for preventive work when we know that we just have to find money to repair the damage a few years later. And everyone agrees. It is not useful to blame for lack of money either. The best proof that it's only the will is that the overnight bulk of the population shook 3 billion kroner out of the sleeves to meet a little thoughtful election vow. Only through a really big effort at school can we do something that really monks. Think about what we could achieve for just 1 of the 3 billion dollars per. years, used deliberately in school to prevent anyone from falling outside. Early in kindergarten and school, we can see which children can come out and drive without extra effort on the part of adults. There is no room for such an extra effort today because of the error priority given by Stortinget. Our unit school gathers all the children. This means that children and young people can help each other under the direction of adults, and professionals can also be hired. In school, the worn-out concept of ‘solidarity’ can be given real content and can counteract many of the cancers that children are exposed to outside school. But it requires resources – economic and human. Researchers advise us to bet on youth before they start smoking, alcohol, or drugs. Of course that's right. It's just in school that we can reach everyone before that happens. Without making such a big effort in primary school, I'm a pessimist. Then the development will go its wrong way and the problems will only increase, and thus also the repair costs. The fact is that the money we spend on our children is going to come back many times later in terms of savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e752	The desperation of the vital drugs force many drug addicts to commit criminal acts. Around the day you have to hunt for money to fund the next dose. That's why the drug addicts go out to the street to ask, can't you do a little money? If you don't have to resort to criminal acts. It must also be an exception that one or more drug addicts do not encounter beggar behavior on Karl Johan or, for that matter, elsewhere. The fact that the welfare community does not work as well as some politicians want to make it is a disgrace of Norwegian society. For many, it seems burdensome that such conditions are almost accepted by the authorities. At the same time, there is evidence that the drug supply to drug addicts is deficient and that it is due to a lack of willingness to force drug addicts. The economic benefits of drug trafficking are high, and this is not risky in Norway. The reckless drug traffickers know that the sanctions in Norway are so modest and mild that it is easy to zone in Norwegian luxury prisons. Thus, the temptations become very great for those who want to make money on the misery of others, regardless of whether young people die. Most drug users are deeply distressed by their own situation. Indeed, the need to commit the crime of profit means for a good number of drug addicts that they go along with their own moral convictions, but desperation is the very driving force behind the actions. Parents and families also suffer from drug abuse, and they often want nothing but to force their children to become compulsive for different reasons. Many parents live under conditions of acts that limit terror, violence, and threats in order for their children to get money for drugs. That is why it is frightening and completely irresponsible that drug lawyers can then claim that people have to use the drugs they want. Last week, the Minister of Justice and the undersigned had a settlement on the ethics of the asylum lawyers. It turns out that ethics is also very deficient in some drug lawyers who live by defending criminal drug users. In addition, lawyers appear and glorify the use because they themselves have tried both hashish and LSD. Nor will it be better when some police lawyers call for a lower level of drug penalties in Norway. In spite of the fact that more people will end up in the gutter, it does not affect relinquished sofa liberals that youth with the future ahead, will actually go down. Where is the Value Commission? The fight against drugs is far from lost when studies show that well over 80 pst. of all Norwegian 21-year-olds have never tried cannabis resin or other drugs. Not only is there a struggle for adequate treatment and rehabilitation facilities, but there is also a struggle to get sufficient and necessary lifting of minimum penalties for drug trafficking and organised crime. [[The President clubs]] In the criminal field, both the Labour Party and the Government fail, because as far as possible the best possible criminal care for criminals is sought. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e767	The president reminds me of the three minutes' speaking time limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e770	I'm glad it's the Minister of Social Affairs who is the addressee of this interpellation. In the justice sector, too, there is a lot of work to be done in this field, and it has been said that there is a lot of crime in the drug environment and a lot of drugs in the criminal environment. And that's true! What a young person thinks is an innocent experiment with some pills in the weekend, becomes for some addiction, a consumption that spreads, it gets expensive, and crime is near. And we can run after illegal abuse, we can run after users, tallers and backers, but it's an eternal race. For every backer who is taken, new backers and new users come. As long as there's demand, we also get new deliveries. This is why it is so important – in addition to running in the justice sector – that we help people out of the abuse, and not least that we prevent new abuses. This is why the fight against drugs is so much more than a policy on justice. Several have pointed out in the debate the frightening spread of drug use we have seen in recent years. When I was a teenager in Sarpsborg in the early 1980s, we knew about hashish as a drug, and we knew what mysterious, hidden backyards had to be visited to buy a few grams. Today, however, teenagers in Sarpsborg are offered hard drugs and bought them in high school, in their daily work, and the drugs are offered openly in outings in Sarpsborg. A teenager today still has to say actively no to drugs, while a few years ago — when I was a teenager — we had to actively seek out the hidden hooks. It's serious! Prisons are also struggling with the drug problem. Hermetically closing prisons is impracticable and, moreover, incompatible with a criminal court for rehabilitation. It's not about being kind to the inmates, as the representative suggested before me, but it's about getting them out of their drug abuse. A lot has been cleaned up in prisons, but something has also been done, for example. The Stifender project in Oslo County Prison, where the prisoner enters into a contract for a drug-free settlement, works actively with attitudes and getting a new life started. But there we see problems that I hope the Social Minister will clean up. When you get to the so-called phase three in the Stifliner project, that's the follow-up when you get out of prison, the county councils fail. They do not provide the financial guarantee to be provided when the prisoner enters a treatment institution. This means that many do not get the important final phase. So they fall back into the old environment, and some people don't participate at all. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: what action will she take to ensure that the county councils take the responsibility they are actually charged with?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e785	I would like to thank you for a broad and good commitment to this interpellation debate. We probably know more than enough, it'll be claimed. But I don't think we have the knowledge we need to take the right action. I believe the need for a more comprehensive drug policy is absolutely present. Many professionals also call for such coordination. Governments have a positive attitude to wanting to address the challenges, and the Stortinge grant funds. Nevertheless, we see that we have a very large number of overdose deaths. While we had previously overdosage deaths mainly in Oslo, we now have more overdose deaths outside Oslo than in the capital. More and more people are using drugs. I think this should be a clear signal that we do not have a good enough overview and do not implement the right measures. I believe this concerns the prevention work, treatment arrangements, etc. The Council of State pointed out the recordings that her working group had made and that are now out — or had been out — at the hearing. I am afraid that the working group has had a short time to carry out this important work, and that the situation around the country is not sufficiently clear to promote the best possible proposals for action. I hope I'm wrong about this. The representative of Høegh had a note on what has been allocated this year to the prevention work. I have not placed any responsibility on any single party for the lack of appropriations for the prevention work. I took this up in recognising that in this area, as in many others, we are too little good at giving priority to prevention. But in a competition for who grants the most, as the representative Höegh pointed out, I don't think the real need is plus/minus 5 million. But unfortunately, the need is multiplicity. I hope the Council of State will contribute to the project of treatment using Subutex, will receive rapid and effective treatment, and not have to wait in a long queue for methadone-assisted treatment. With great interest, I have registered that the Council of State does not agree with its boss that there is a need for an independent drug commission. Can we nevertheless hope that the Council of State will reconsider the Prime Minister's proposals? And will the Council of State take the initiative to give us a State action plan on the drugs field?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e802	I am pleased with the wide-ranging deal that exists in the United Kingdom — and that has come up again today — when there is more effort to prevent drug abuse. Does the Prime Minister have a drug commission? He's said he's open to evaluate it. Professor Andenees called for a review of the legislation and the penalties for liberalisation, which was his commitment to a drug commission. I see that as something quite different than the holistic review that Skogholt is calling for. And so there's such a holistic review of the government now coming up with a review of the preventive work and a review of the treatment page through the Nesvåg group's reports. So there are several people here who have asked when we are able to go into this whole thing and the action plan. It is addressed by the important responsibilities of the county. I see that the hearing messages from the Nesvåg group's work should form the basis for a new matter for Stortinget. The most realistic thing about getting an even more thoughtful and comprehensive action plan than we have had at present will be the spring of 2001. In the meantime, we have to use the knowledge that we have. We know that international production and turnover are increasing. This also leads to increased access in Norway. It is therefore important to strengthen international cooperation, both on alternative production to drugs and on international police cooperation. So we also know enough to include in the further work that there is no easy way for anyone who wants out of their drug abuse. This means that we need to have a range of measures and offers when it comes to treatment. But we know that long-term follow-up provides better results, and that means that we need not least to strengthen post-protection. Then we need to strengthen cross-border cooperation, we have done that between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Justice. We have also set down a group that looks at the good models locally to strengthen the social, health and justice sectors, work and what else it might be. Prevention must have first priority, and therefore we must have this review, which I hope will give results.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e815	So the debate is on case No. End 3
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e829	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1738]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e845	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1738]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e853	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map. To Case No 1, 2 and 3 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e861	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representative of Erna Solberg on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 17 December 1999: ‘The Government requests the use of the last paragraph of Section 26 to create a simplified legislation with lower guarantee requirements for the provision of services such as trainee, babysitting, day-mother and for specific low-market district-based establishments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-20.ana.ud1612e877	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representative of Erna Solberg on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 17 December 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide alternative models to set up a public agency to set up schemes where the labour market seat can enter into partnerships with private employment agencies or employment agents, and public or private users to further develop the areas outlined under a temporary agency or financed by payment from the user.’
