ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e24	In January Norway shall take the seat of the Security Council of the United Nations. After 20 years, we're back. The world’s country has shown its confidence in Norway and has given it responsibility. We look forward to assuming that responsibility. Norway has knowledge, contacts and experience that can contribute to international efforts for peace, development and the fight against poverty. Many have contributed to Norway being a member of the Security Council again. On behalf of the Government, I would like to extend a special thanks to the King and Queen. Their great commitment is an expression that there is an overall nation that has stood behind that we have sought this responsibility. The governments of Jagland and Bondevik did a good and targeted job. My government has therefore had a good basis for the efforts made in the interview. Our work in the Security Council will be a main task for Norwegian foreign policy in the coming two years. The shift in power in Yugoslavia and the difficult struggle for peace in the Middle East are important reminders: peace and development require that all contribute – not least we who live in well-being and security. That is why Norway strongly advocates the UN. Therefore, the Government has proposed a sharp increase in Norwegian aid. Norway’s early and clear support for the global vaccine alliance has led other countries to follow suit. We've started on the road to securing vaccines for all the children of the world. Ten months after the establishment of the vaccine programme, the first vaccines have reached children in 13 of the world’s poorest countries. Only in the first year can it mean that 100,000 children's lives are saved. We see that assistance benefits, that it is possible to work differently – less bureaucratic, more targeted. This is the renewal of the fight against poverty. Politics is about choosing, and the government is making clear choices. For us, it is important to strengthen the health system, to ensure a good school and a good care for all those who need care and supervision. Therefore, we will focus more on our common welfare systems. We need more health workers, more in the care professions and more policemen. For us, it is important to distribute goods and burdens fairly. Those who have much have to contribute more, and those who have little will have to be relieved. For us, it's important to be in charge of the economy. We will not help to increase the pressure on new interest rate increases. That is why we include the increased appropriations for our common welfare tasks, partly by reducing other expenditure and partly by increasing the revenue of the state. More and better well-being, more fair distribution and responsible governance of the economy, that's the government's choice. In the Declaration of Accession, we said that our common task now is to raise the minority. We were serious about that. We see that groups fall outside, and we see the emergence of new poverty in Norway. It's unacceptable. In the last century, we abolished the open poverty in Norway, and now the task is to remove the hidden one. Strong Community solutions are not in the way of a strong economy. On the contrary, a good school, a good and effective health care, good care for the elderly, good kindergartens and good school leisure arrangements, a society that creates opportunities for everyone, it is a society that uses our most important resource, namely man's labour force and creativity. That's why the government won't let our welfare society get confused. We want to expand it out. Safe people are creative people. It is the Nordic countries with small differences that claim best in the new knowledge economy – because so many have education and knowledge, because so many dare to bet and take a risk. We can only maintain this force if we can give equal opportunities to everyone in the future. And then I want to add: for Norwegian companies, it is also important that we succeed in creating a better distribution, so that we can continue the cooperation in income policy. It is discouraging to see that many business leaders still have problems grasping this crucial point. Social responsibility is something everyone has to show, especially those who have the most. In the government statement, we said that in order to ensure well-being, the public sector needs to be strengthened. Therefore, it must be renewed – strengthened and renewed. Not one or the other, but both. And we're doing a good job. Health is getting more money. But we also know that doctors are spending less and less time on patients now than before, that valuable equipment stands unused for much of the day, and that the operating rooms are empty in the middle of working hours. It can't go on like that. More money is not automatically the same as better services. That is why we need to organise better. Everyone wants a good school, and a good school depends on good teachers. There has been a long talk about raising teachers' wages. Now it happens. This is also the renewal of the public sector. The agreement with teachers involves better organisation of the school day and greater use of teaching resources for the benefit of the school. The municipalities will save significant amounts. A high school principal recently told me that the agreement took away the need to hire temporary workers. It means less administration, saving money and a better school. We have launched a comprehensive reform of Kommune-Norway. Municipalities have to decide for themselves, as much as possible where people live and work. Less earring, more free means. It again means less administration, both in the state and in the municipality, saving money and more well-being. This is also renewal. Thousands of competent people work every day in our municipalities and carry out tasks that we all enjoy. We'll bet on the knowledge and competence of those who work there. That is why we want to give them more responsibility. We're facing a historic transformation of the Defense. The defence shall be capable of carrying out its tasks in a new Europe. We've waited too long. This increase must make demanding decisions of great importance to many people and communities. There is also the renewal of the public sector – a modern defence that ensures security for Norway and for those working there. We're doing public offices 24 hours a day. Many of us are network users in banks. Many deliver the declaration electronically. We will have the opportunity to become network users at the Automobile Authority, the building kit and many other public enterprises. We want to create public service offices in all municipalities, so that users only need to turn to one place to access public services. This is also the renewal of the public sector. Public services shall be technologically at the forefront. That means fewer jobs in administration and a better offer for users. We will give the police officers greater freedom to spend money, equipment and crews within their own police district in order to solve the tasks in the best possible way. Once again, the result will be less administration, less money and a safer everyday life for the population. These are just a few examples. There is a review of the Government's work on renewal in several of the technical proposals in the budget. The public sector shall be in the service of the population. The administration application is for users to be centred. We have high ambitions in environmental policy. In the field of the environment, we see that policies are useful. Significant results have been achieved in recent years in the fight against acid rain, ozone-depleting substances and emissions of pollutants. But the fight against climate change has just begun. This is the most comprehensive and complex environmental problem the world has ever faced. Norway shall comply with its climate obligations. Any use of natural gas in Norway shall take place under the Kyoto Agreement on greenhouse gas emission limitations. This agreement allows countries to join forces to achieve emission reductions. For example, power produced by gas in Norway will reduce our need to import pollutant power. As a result, total greenhouse gas emissions will decrease. We have to follow the polluter-pays principle and the gas power plants themselves have to pay to buy emission allowances. In addition, we are stepping up efforts for research into the environmentally friendly use of gas and clean-up technologies for the greenhouse gas CO2. This will allow us to develop a Norwegian natural resource in Norway and, at the same time, to help solve a major global environmental problem. In the Declaration of Accession, the Government stressed that our society should be marked by tolerance and respect. We need to have tolerance for the wishes of the majority and the needs of the minority. But we're not going to have tolerance for crime. Circumcision of young girls is criminal in Norway. The State Attorney at Oslo has announced that he is investigating the issues that TV 2 has identified in a commendable manner. But the revelations of 20-year-old Kadra also challenge us in a different way. We must ensure that her courageous action is a contribution to a new chapter in the story of women's liberation in Norway. We have to make sure that the revelations lead us to set clear limits on what we can and what we cannot accept in a multicultural Norway. But we're not going to simplify the debate by suspecting other cultures. The Norwegian law is clear, and it applies to everyone. We need to ensure a more open dialogue between all groups in our country, so that different cultures can unfold within legal frameworks and based on respect for fundamental human rights. Norway has great opportunities. But having great opportunities is not the same as being exempt from difficult choices. It is primarily our joint work that can give us more of what we want more of: a better health care system. A better school. A good and worthy old age. A well-being characterized by care and presence. That's why we need more people working. In the healthcare system we now have 5,800 unoccupied jobs. It equals more than a whole Haukeland Hospital, a hospital that last year treated more than 300,000 patients. It is alarming that year after year we are finding more and more jobs and that more and more people are getting sick. We have to turn this development around. At that time it must not be about reducing social security, but about giving more people the opportunity to participate in the labour market and to take care of themselves. We have to create a working life with space for everyone. It's also important to create a more human-friendly society. The characteristic of a good welfare society is not that as much as possible depends on public support. The characteristic feature of a good welfare society is that people are able to do themselves and that the community is setting up the day it is no longer possible. Focusing heavily on our common well-being and a fairer distribution is an investment in the best interests of Norwegian society. We have a minority government in Norway. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a majority in the United Kingdom to strengthen our welfare society, a majority to raise the minority, a majority to renew the public sector, a majority to increase international solidarity and a majority to recognise that this must be done within a responsible economic framework. The challenge is to use this majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e109	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e112	The Prime Minister said that the Government was in favour of minor designation in the transfers to the municipalities and thus more freedom for the municipalities. We agree. My first question to the Prime Minister is: why has he then created the impression to the Norwegian people in a couple of TV debates with me that the Workers' Party is in favour of maintaining the earmarked grant for the school leisure system, when the fact is that the Workers' Party and the Progress Party agreed on 15 June to include this earmarked grant in the income system? What credibility and what confidence can the Prime Minister expect when he repeatedly, in debate after debate, misleads the Norwegian people with false information? The second is that there is now a price increase that allows for a new increase in interest rates after the government has submitted the budget, and today’s newspapers show that fuel prices and electricity prices in particular are strongly contributing to the price increase. Why then does the Government propose to increase the electricity price further, and why will the Government not reduce the fuel charges enough to at least bring us down to the level that the government party itself planned for the current year? And thirdly, when should it be possible to use some of the oil revenues for pension liabilities, as the Prime Minister is talking about? Should it be in 2005, 2010 or 2015, or should it be when pension payments reach a special level of crowns? And if the latter is the case, what is the crown level when the Prime Minister thinks it should apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e123	When it comes to my statement about the school leisure system, I have my words absolutely intact. For several years, the Progress Party has not voted to include but to cut out State aid to the school leisure system. And there's a big difference between integrating it into the municipal income system and cutting it out. In addition, the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen have on a number of occasions provided a fundamental justification that they are opposed to any public support for post-school supervision, such as the school leisure scheme. They have argued against both municipal support and state support for the school leisure system, so there is no doubt about this. They are ideological and basically opposed to public participation in financing the school leisure system. We are for that. We are in favour of the kind of welfare schemes that benefit children, and which also help many people, not least women, to spend time and labour in the care of the elderly, health care and other important welfare tasks. If we had followed the policies of the Progress Party, where, year after year, they have proposed to wind up state aid for kindergarten and the school leisure system, many women had been forced to work less or stop working, and we had had problems for the children, for the women, and not least for the health services and the elderly, which depend on the work of these people. So the question of when to use oil revenues. Well, we've done that, we do that, and we'll do that. We have had NOK 1 100 billion in oil revenues since the oil business started. We've used 800 of them. We spend oil money today, and we spend oil money in the budget, as proposed next year. What we know is that in the years to come, pension obligations will grow sharply. And then we know that oil revenue will start to fall. And then it's obvious that the need to use a larger share of oil revenue will increase. How much and how fast depends on the oil price. But we're using oil revenues to finance well-being and pensions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e132	I ask for the floor for an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e139	The President may realize that there may be political misunderstandings here, but that will be recommended by the President in a later debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e142	It's an actual misunderstanding. It concerns a proposal adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e147	In many ways we now have an interesting political situation, with three main groupings in Norwegian policy: we have a left hand side with the Labour Party as dominant, we have the right hand parts and we have the center. And the center has never been such a clear and interconnected government option as it has been in recent years. However, in order for the Storting to function and do its job, different groupings, even from time to time different government options, need to cooperate. In the course of the forthcoming budgetary procedure, the Workers' Party is now free to move freely to the centre. This is a little amazing, because as late as March, Jens Stoltenberg said that the center alternative was extremely weak. Now the center parts are obviously so uniquely good that we're the only workers' party that we're going to be able to cooperate with. So my question to the Prime Minister is, what has happened this half year, except that the Workers' Party has then taken the government power? We must also think beyond the forthcoming budgetary procedure. We need to ensure sound economic development in the longer term, and then there is a problem that the population's unemployment has so enormous growth in its expenditures, especially for disability benefits and sick pay. Social protection should ensure well-being, but expenditure growth is now so strong that it destroys the ability of any government and any majors to give priority to other welfare tasks. The central government put down the so-called Sandman Committee to look at opportunities to limit this expenditure growth, and the majority who have provided an interesting sketch, where both the employer, the employee and the state will contribute to a balanced overall solution. In the census, the government says that it will prioritise the follow-up of the Sandman Committee's investigation. So I have two questions for the Prime Minister. Question no. 1: How will the Government follow up on the Sandman selection, and when will the follow-up come? Question no. 2: Does the Prime Minister agree with the main features of the majority position?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e158	The representative, Bondevik, said that in many ways we have an interesting political situation in Norway today. To that I would say that I fully agree, and it is a pleasure to express that consensus. I would also like to say that it is nothing new that representatives both for the Workers' Party and for the Centre Parties indicate that the best solutions for Norway are found at the intersection between the Centre and the Workers' Party. It has been said a great many times from central politicians that despite disagreements on individual matters, we have experience, in fact, in almost every budgetary settlement since 1986, that the solutions have been found between the centre parties and the Workers' Party. This was particularly difficult for two years, in 1998 and 1999. It was due to a particular case, namely the cash support. However, with the exception of the two budgetary years, the best solutions have also been found for reconciliation and agreement between the central parties and the Labour Party, and it is still our opinion that the central parties will achieve more impact on the issues they are faced with – commitment to welfare systems, fair distribution and international solidarity – in cooperation with the Labour Party than by cooperating with the Progress Party and the Right. It's our assessment, and it's quite possible to mean it and at the same time think that we had a center government that accepted a lot of defeats, but that finally decided to say that you wouldn't accept any more defeats and then chose to go off in March. As far as the Sandman Committee is concerned, I have already taken the initiative at the Contact Committee meeting on 4 October to have a separate follow-up to the report of the sample with a view to reaching an agreement. There are a large number of proposals in the Sandman Committee report, and we have taken the initiative not only to have a regular hearing, but also to sit together to discuss whether it is possible to reach an agreement. The proposals themselves will then be taken into consideration when we have discussed them with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e167	The government is coming up with the highest tax increases in human memory. This is traditional labour party policy. If they see a problem, they raise their taxes. This year, there is a special attack on creative business, especially those companies that have many employees. The defence of the Government is that the level of taxation in the mainland is lower than in some other countries. That's not right. The government operates with misleading tables and blends oil revenues into the tables. And when they're revealed, they call it a typographical error. I'll leave the morals in it in this round, and carefully quote the chief of expeditions Scheel in the Ministry of Finance, who today says the following to Today's Business: ‘Yes, the footnote that the continental shelf activity is excluded from the table of tax pressures in Norway and other countries is crazy’. He confirms that the tax pressure in mainland Norway had been 4-5 percentage points higher without the pressure error. Thus, it has been established that the governor is right when he says that the tax burden in mainland Norway is among the highest in OECD countries. Norway thus follows a completely different line from the rest of the world — where others lower taxes, Norway raises taxes. So we become a different country of fiscal policy. We have tried it with regard to taxes, and we received a border trade. We have tried it in terms of corporate taxation, and the IT founders disappear to the rest of the world. We try it in the case of diesel charges, and the trucks are forced to kneel down. Then my question is: what makes the Prime Minister think that Norway can be a different tax policy country without significant adverse effects, and why is it that other countries see that they have to make a difference to the tax competition from the outside in order not to lose themselves? Why does the Prime Minister see taxes as the main point when the problem in Norway today is a shortage of labour? Why can't they rethink this area, like this. Did the right in the debate yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e178	First of all, these pressure errors, just to clean it up. There is one table in the budget two places. One place is there a mistake in the footnote, the other place is the footnote right. Then I encourage the representative Petersen to stick to the table where the footnote is correct. At least there is no expression for any attempt at deliberate manipulation that there is a mistake in one footnote, but correctly in another footnote in the same table somewhere else in the budget. However, the main score is as follows: Norway has a tax level slightly above the average in Europe. In return, we have significantly better welfare schemes than most other European countries, and we finance social security, pensions, over the state budget, while companies in many other countries have to pay their own pension schemes in addition to taxes. Then we have a tax level that is lower than in our Nordic neighbouring country. If we were to introduce the tax system that you have, for example. in Sweden, it would mean a tax increase of many, many billion dollars in Norway overall. I would also like to warn against dramatizing what has been proposed. No one believes that it is a simple matter or unproblematic to propose to slow down growth in the private sector by means of a short-term cost of 1.5 pst. However, even if there were to be a majority to impose a short-term cyclical charge of 1.5 p.p., the total employer’s charge in Norway, including the short-term cyclical charge, will still be lower than it was in Norway in 1992. Then there was unemployment, the Norwegian economy went badly, and the employer’s fee was reduced. Now there is a shortage of labour, high temperature and we're adjusting a little bit again, but still not back to the level we had in 1992. For comparison with Sweden or Finland, the employer’s fee is 33 pst, respectively. and 26 pst. In Norway, it is from zero in outwards to a maximum of around 16 pst. It's not dramatic even though it's 1.5 percentage points higher than what's been common. The worst thing about Norwegian companies would have been to use oil money instead of dampening the growth with a short-term cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e189	The Prime Minister's history of what happened in 1997 and 1998 is on his own account. There were probably other things than just the cash support that were the background to what happened then. It should perhaps be enough to remember that in 1998, the Workers' Party was actually prepared to take over the government with the Right in order to regain the government power it gave up on a voluntary basis in 1997. Then we also see that the Workers' Party is working with the Right to build highly polluting gas power plants, to build shooting grounds in the East, to expand Upper Otta. They propose state hospitals, which have so far been right-wing and progressive party policies. The Social Minister proposes privatisation of care services — and so far only the Progress Party and the Right have been in charge. It cooperates with the Right to reduce the income of farmers and to force structural changes in the agricultural industry. Auctions on breeding concessions are proposed. It is only the Right Party and the Advance Party that have stood for it. You work with the Right to take money from the small municipalities and give it to the big ones. And last but not least, Thorbjørn Jagland has undertaken to be a driver in the EU case. On the right-hand side, even controversial directives that many EU countries refuse to accept are accepted – without blundering. The Food Mining Directive is accepted, the Child Food Directive is accepted, people choose with open eyes to gamble with public health and rely on the market to clean up. This is done in cooperation with the right-hand side of Norwegian policy. Jens Stoltenberg repeated and repeated in opposition that now the center must select the page. Now what? What does the Workers' Party want? What does Stoltenberg really mean by the invitations he has repeatedly come to the centre, when the Workers' Party in the field of structural policy and, on major political issues, continues to cooperate with the right-hand side of Norwegian policy? Is it a recognition, as Kjell Magne Bondevik said, that there are several groupings and several blocks of Norwegian policy, and that the centre in very many central areas represents a clear alternative to the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e198	Of course, the representative Odd Roger Enoksen is quite right in saying that in some areas the Workers' Party does not agree with the Centre parties, but has similar views with other parties in the Stortinget, Right or even in some cases the Advance Party. We have never claimed that this is not the case. What I'm saying is that especially in budgetary matters, we have a long historical experience that we have more in common with the centre parties than with the Right and the Advance Party. And it's not a loose claim, it's based on the fact that when you look at all the budget compromises that it's been necessary to join the Stortinget since we got minority government in 1986, you see that the comparisons have been essentially between the centre and the Workers' Party. I guess that's a historical expression that's actually where we're most easily finding each other. In addition, not least Odd Roger Enoksen has stated very clearly that in terms of distribution of municipalities/districts, the Centre has more in common with the Workers' Party than with the Right and Advance Party. It doesn't mean that we agree on everything, but it means that it's easier to get together than to go to the Right and the Advance Party to achieve more in municipalities or districts or other things we're busy with. As far as the invitations are concerned, what I'm saying is that we believe that both the Centre and the Workers' Party achieve more by cooperating between themselves than by cooperating with the Right and the Advance Party. And an example of that is the community layout. We have now taken the time up in terms of increased appropriations for municipalities so that they can have money for well-being, kindergartens, care for the elderly, schools and other important things. We follow up on what the center has called for, namely a fairer taxing, and introduce tax on dividends in line with a expressed wish, not least from Odd Roger Enoxen. We follow up promises to escalate the assistance in line with the wishes of the center. We are opening up to reduce VAT on food in line with the wishes of the centre, and we are increasing the appropriations for alternative research on CO2 clean-up technology – also in line with what the centre and the Workers' Party have previously meant here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e211	First, a little heart attack. I think I sighed so high here instead that everyone in the room could hear it, as it turned out that a central part of the line change in a platform debate was concerned with which footnotes in which tables in the national budget were to be concentrated. Then I got the ugly feeling that we were not living in the country of opportunity, and that it had not told the assembly that we are actually in a unique situation, no other generations have had as great opportunities as we have to make any important choices for the future. Yesterday, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Igland spoke, among others. on the EU. And I think he expressed himself quite cautiously in relation to the impression given by the Workers' Party's zeal for Norwegian EU membership. He said, ‘However, if EU membership is once more on the agenda, it will not happen until we face an enlargement of the European Union, and when one has a clear and stable majority of the Norwegian people who want such a development.’ If we are to take literally what the Minister for Foreign Affairs is putting forward, we must note that we will not be faced with any enlargement of the European Union in 2005. It is therefore the case that if the Minister of Foreign Affairs is to be taken literally, a new Norwegian application for EU membership is impractical for the next major period, before 2005. Then I wonder what the Labour Party is doing, and I would like to hear the Prime Minister's view. Is it the case that the question of an out-of-date case should be turned into a central conflict issue between the Workers' Party and the Centre and the SV? Or is the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government to understand that any Norwegian EU membership during the next major period is highly unlikely?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e223	I remember very well in the winter of 1989, when the NRK had a TV debate where they had a wide range of experts on international policy and security policy. They sat in a TV studio and debated the effects of glasnost and perestroika, which could lead to Europe. And then all the experts in that program agreed on one thing, that even though a lot happened in the Soviet Union now, and although there were big changes going on with glasnost and perestroika, it was totally unthinkable that the iron carpet would fall in the next few years. A few months later, the Berlin Wall fell. And in a few years, the old East-West separation in Europe has been lifted. Poland is no longer a Communist dictatorship, the country is NATO-allied with Norway. Hungary and the Czech Republic are no longer communist dictatorships, they are NATO allies with Norway, and they are at full speed into the EU. And then the point is that we all, whether we say yes or no to the European Union, have to be very careful to have a good sense of what Europe will look like in a few years' time, when we were unable to predict it a few months before the fall of the Berlin Wall. And that's really what's the main message, that because Europe is changing so much, because the European Union is changing so much, it's unwise not to have any freedom of action in relation to those issues. But then I believe that yesterday the Foreign Minister did not say anything new, but underlined what he and I and many of us have said all along, namely that in order for the issue of membership for Norway to come up again, it must be a clear and stable majority. Not least for us who have been followers of the EU, it would be totally pointless if we invited to a new referendum on the EU and then made it clear that the no-side would win one more time. Europe is changing, the EU is changing. I believe that the EU is changing in the sense that both enlargement and Danish rejection of the euro mean that we are seeing an EU in which different countries participate to different degrees in European cooperation, and that is also interesting for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e234	The cord shift is over. Before Hans J. Røsjorde gets the floor, Mr Ågot Valle will have the floor to put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e239	As a result of a broad women's initiative, I am delighted on behalf of Berit Brørby, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Sonja Irene Sjøli, May Britt Vihovde and myself to submit proposal No. 12, which calls on the Government to draw up an action plan on female genital mutilation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e244	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e247	Before I start the post that I was prepared to make, I would like to address myself to the Chamber on the occasion of the line change between the Prime Minister and the representative Hagen. And I just want to refer to the treatment of case no. 1 June this year, about the municipal economy, and I quote from Innst. S. No 252 for 1999-2000, Roman numeral II: ‘Chap. 221 item 63 Funding for the school leisure scheme is included in the income system from the school year 2001/2002.» The President's remark was here: ‘Here, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Right Party and the Central Party have the suspension, and the Workers’ Party has announced that they will vote in favour.’ Then to the throne. The Trontal talks about the defense in two places. The first place is focused on the need for migration with emphasis on international operations, and the second place is: ‘Norway, together with Denmark, will lead the KFOR forces in Kosovo from April next year’. Thus, the focus is on participation in international operations, not on the basis of participation, namely the protection of national defence, military training and training and the training of our officers. Therefore, the census indicates a deliberate turn away from national defence, a defence that is necessary for us to be able to recruit against the goal that the Storing has adopted for international operations, and which the Government obviously also strongly supports. In the spring of 1994, Stortinget adopted a new strength structure such as: meant a half of the army, to a little less than 90000 personnel. The head of defense now proposes, through the 2000 Defence Study, a further halving of national defence on more than that – not because the head of defence believes this to be sufficient, but because he takes on the money he thinks he gets in the years that come. So what he thinks will be sufficient for the country's defense, he hasn't said. This is of course something that needs to be clarified in the process leading up to the treatment of the long-term plan in Stortinget next spring. We therefore get a clearly resource-driven defence structure, not a defence structure driven by security policy thinking. We're getting a threshold defense instead of an invasion defense, a threshold defense completely dependent on an alliance of failing capabilities, focusing in other directions, and an alliance that over time, with an increased gap in practice frequency, will hardly be practiced and equipped to meet Norwegian winter conditions after some time. This threshold is getting so low that it will hardly be noticed for anyone who wants to cross it. Every time a structure has been adopted by a majority here on the Storting, other majority have equally certainly failed to comply with their own decisions by means of appropriations. This has developed in such a way that, through his lecture in the Oslo Military Society last Monday, the head of defence has already raised doubts as to whether any of the foundations of the future long-term communication, the basis for the selection of defence policy, have already been left through the proposed budget currently under consideration in the Grand Duchy. When, year after year, the obligation to protect becomes a balancing post where the term of service is cut both in relation to the time of convocation and at the time of dismission, soldiers are trained who have such a low professional basis through what they lose during their term of office and otherwise cannot even be included in our disintegrating war arrangements. So from this point of view, the majority are trying to recruit enough soldiers to their own level of ambition for international service. So there's no lack of ambition here. Knowing, at the same time, that stocks and appropriations for ammunition, weapons and personal equipment for soldiers' security are far below what is right as a result of lack of appropriations over the years and associated stock collection in all areas, the Storting should not be surprised that this could have consequences through the loss of soldiers in international service and national service, because they have not received sufficient training and practice here at home. And I ask: will the majority who does not support their own decisions through budgets take on this responsibility? In this context, I refer to the year's budget proposal, which reads: ‘Other measures will be to reduce stocks of fuel and spare parts. The necessary ammunition for training and training will be kept to an absolute minimum.’ In fact, it cannot be said, even from the department. So where do I want this? The Progress Party and the Right have taken over the consequences of their own structural decisions. This should also be done by the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and the Workers' Party will have a challenge on its own as a government party. At least do not come and say that we in the Progress Party have not told us if something goes wrong. The Minister of Defence has been thinking that a defence policy settlement, as formed between the parties in Sweden and Denmark, can be a way to go. In the Progress Party, we doubt that this will last when the Ministry of Finance, no matter what the Minister of Finance, wants to cut – and this is happening steadily. There in the farm it cannot be expected that there is an understanding of the long-term and responsible nature of defence policy in relation to the objectives set by the Stortinget. The experience from the last time it went wrong, i.e. in the 1940s, is that it is then up to the Ministry of Finance's leading staff to follow the gold transport across the North Sea. Once again, as a result of a lack of ability and willingness to plan long-term defence, that political-led department should be aware that in that case only a hard-disc is sent over the North Sea this time. The staff is allowed to stay home and take the noise. Over the last few years, the share of the defence budget in GDP has fallen rapidly, for the current year approximately. 1.8 pst., it was much higher in other periods when we had less money. An objective of a defence budget linked to GDP could be a possible solution. But then the level has to be raised to at least 2.5 pst. to bring us into line with countries that we in other contexts like to compare with. The protection obligation is requested to be maintained by the majority. But the consequences of this are not fully drawn, as I have pointed out earlier in the article. Annual balancing of education and training, reduction of stocks, etc. is the result. I have noticed that some people believe that the defence gets too much money for investment. 95 pst. investment funds are already committed in contracts and further reductions will necessarily mean further consumption of stocks that are already at a stock level. I have seen that Stortinget's representative no. One, sir. Halfway, in a pink newspaper published in this country, has proposed cutting investments of up to 1.5 million. kr. It will necessarily also have consequences for the training of soldiers on Mr. Halfway really means this. And then it won't be a shot at those soldiers, sir. Halfway's going to train at the Evjemo. The resources are then limited to Pokémon, which is currently the place of employment of the younger garden. It is right that we should and must adapt management apparatus and command structure to the war structure that these are to govern. There is agreement, but then one must also be aware that changing over time requires resources, which must also be shown the willingness to get in place, as the Defence Policy Committee has pointed out. It's a challenge for those who have helped to form that majority. If we don't, conversion will normally only result in problems being reinforced and shifted further, and the result is new decisions and new structures that end up in a defence that doesn't make sense. And we're already there through what Defense Study 2000 adds: Two brigades – and one brigade that dies while it marches. It's about 15,000 soldiers. In the evening post, there were doubts about Norway’s ability to lead KFOR. Nothing is more faulty than that, I would claim. What has been discussed is the ability to lead allied forces in Norway over time if the defence encounters a negative development. It's a serious challenge for us, because it has to do with sovereignty. KFOR we have the ability to lead, but it depends on the majority who are willing to support this beyond, also contributing financially according to the Storting's assumptions, namely full payment for international operations with fresh money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e295	The representative Røsjorde referred to what representative No. One, Halfway, should have pronounced. What was my main point in the opinion was that the most important thing we need in 2001 is clear political decisions that are forward-looking for a new and modern defence. It is not necessarily money that is absolutely crucial. My main point was to suggest that we could get a little less money in 2001 and rather get it back in 2002 when the structure was in place. Now Røsjorde and also the Prime Minister insisted that we are facing major changes in the Defence. I agree with Mr Røsjorde and the Prime Minister. We get the long-term message in February, and it will affect 300 municipalities throughout the country. We must move from an invasion defence to a European defence policy cooperation. It's going to be a demanding transition, and I think what we had hoped for was to be able to achieve a broad alliance, from the Progress Party to the Swedish Federation, so that what was adopted could stand for a decade. That was my wish. Now I realize that the Progress Party will not join in, and that disappoints me. They have done so in Sweden and Denmark. I therefore have to ask the representative of Røsjorde the following questions: will the Progress Party participate in a constructive debate on the changes that need to be made to the Defence? Or will the Progress Party, as it has done in all other matters in this Chamber, just spend more money on satisfying all the interests to avoid making the difficult decisions that all of us from the other political parties are willing to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e303	I'm very surprised by Representative No. 1 in the hall. Rightly, I was likely injured to say that the cut was 1.5 million. kr. Of course it wasn't small amounts, sir. The halves had in mind. That was SEK 1.5 billion. So I'd like to be allowed to fix it. That's what he wanted to cut with. But the difference between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party is: we've been together on the objectives of the Defence Structure. We have voted in favour of that. Who has followed up the structural costs? Yes, the Progress Party has done so. That's what the right has done. It does not have the Labour Party and Mr. Halfway done. That is why it has also gone so badly as it has done, because you have had a gap between resources and decisions on structure. We've done what we can to get this in place. When the representative Halvorsen says: Let's get rid of money in 2001 so we don't do anything wrong, I just said in my post that 95 pst. the investment funds are compulsory. That's the same thing as throwing money off the farm. There is none of the investments for which there will be no room for equipment in a wider structure. So it goes completely independent. That is why Mr. The claim of the halves is meaningless. And, sir. The half-way should at least know his own finance minister so well, as he knows the vice-chairman of the committee, who also has a certain past as a finance minister, that he knows that what you give out of money one year, you never get it another year. If he gets a clear feedback on that, I would like to know the result. It doesn't have to be done from the pulpit, because I don't think it's coming. So when it comes to conciliation, we have no faith that it will be possible to keep the Ministry of Finance in mind, because there is no defence minister who has such strong fists. That's why we don't think it's possible to maintain a cross-party settlement, because it can't be decided in the Storting. That's why I said in my post that I think it might be a way to consider linking it up to a certain proportion of GDP, although it's also resource-driven. But at least we have to get a platform that ensures something more. But it is not the Progress Party that is to blame. We are willing to take the promises that need to be made, even in an organisational context where this makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e312	The representative Røsjorde today swings up to the great heights in relation to the neglect of sins that various governments and various pluralities of the Stortinge have done. There might be reason to say that one time one has been guilty of it. And Røssjorde is to have the rose that even when his party leader, Carl I. Hagen, thought that the new situation in Europe after the fall of the Wall made it possible for us to cut strongly in the defence budget, it was not long before Røssjorde had got the Progress Party into a steady course again. But that's one thing I think is absent from Røsjord's reasoning: Peace is not just defence policy. It should not only be linked to the view of a Norwegian defence. The Progress Party has a clear national defence policy, but at the same time they say no to aid and aid. Don't want to, sir. Røss ground could agree with me that people experience being able to eat saturated, experience a job and experience a kind of international justice, also being an essential part of an international defence project, just like being engaged internationally? It can not be that it is bad for the structure or for the quality of a defense that one is allowed to try internationally within the different defence branches. You have to give more competence to do this. Then, of course, I agree with the representative Røssjorde that one must keep the custom in his own house, so that one has a credible national defense, and that these two things must go hand in hand. But I am lacking in what is currently developing into a purely national debate on the defence budget, a slightly extended perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e321	Keeping order in the house knows representatives of the Christian People's Party more about than I do. It is also in their programme. When the representative, Lilletun, first of all, gave a commendable speech, I naturally appreciate it. But then he starts with a relatively sluggish sticker. On the part of the Progress Party, we have said that it is necessary to maintain a national defence. And what I said was that it's necessary to be able to participate internationally. We're building what the bulk of the population wants, from our protective force. And we boast that our people are very good, because they have a good educational background. At the same time, we also indirectly harass our allies who have a professional defense. But if the majority is to send out as many people as you want at any time, you have to make sure that there is quality over what you send out. Otherwise, you play life and health for the soldiers we send out. It's our top responsibility. Unfortunately, I must say that the party of Mr Lilletun has not made a full contribution to this. One thing is to have intentions, another thing is to follow them up. So we have done so in the Progress Party. We are committed to assisting internationally in the event of disasters. We haven't hesitated to participate in international operations. But we have said that it should be properly financed, in line with that, Mr President. The party of Lilletun has participated, in addition to the defence budget. This has been the case with the Progress Party and the Right. I don't think so, sir. Lilletun's former government. The progress party was the only party that said no to participate in UNPROFOR in Yugoslavia, because we were clearly told by military leadership that we are going into this with as few forces as the majority are willing to submit, it is going to lose. The fate of Srebrenica and UNPROFOR clearly demonstrated this. Do not say that we do not take responsibility for international operations as well as for our own soldiers!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e341	The representative of Røsjorde was expected to find that major changes are necessary in the Defence. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have agreed to propose increased defence appropriations and have been clear that major changes in defence are necessary in order to meet our commitments with a strong defence in this country, while at the same time contributing effectively and professionally in international operations. The enquiries here to Stortinget are beginning to become many. It's flowing on. It is understandable that local communities are now responding when defence workplaces are at risk. The Chairman of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, has also understood this concern when he said in Tromsø, according to the Evening Post on 23 September, that he would: ‘support rapporteurs who, in turn, will arrive at the base of the lion to ‘fight for their military cabals’’. As chairman of the Defence Committee, the representative Røsjorde has been a driver of increased appropriations and necessary adjustments. Would the representative, Mr Røsjorde, rather now follow the direction of Mr Hagen, to meet all local wishes, all local requests, which would give a defence of pay payments more than defence? I hope and believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party will continue to stand on the barricades for increased appropriations for the Defence and at the same time work for necessary conversion. If the representative Røsjorde follows Hagen's recipe, we get a stiff defense without professional challenges, without the necessary dynamics, without sufficient fighting ability. But we know that the representative Røsjorde agrees with this. So is it a new form of double communication from the Progress Party? Meetings in Tromsø: All local requests shall be met. The debate in Stortinget: priority must then be given to the necessary conversions and not to redeployment for the sake of rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e357	Let me at least begin by saying that if Mr. Greece and his own party had followed the goal the party has set up and voted for, we would not be in the situation we are today. I find it particularly satisfying for the Workers' Party to see that the Army is halved, the Home Guard is cut down by 20,000 men, the Home Guard, which is probably the actual heartchild of the Workers' Party no matter how it should be equipped. As far back as 1993-94, when we dealt with the previous long-term plan, we stated that when the Army is halved, the management apparatus, the command structure, must be adapted to the leadership of the war organization and, at the same time, ready to play its part in NATO and in international operations. We agreed to that objective. But it has not been possible, therefore, for alternate governments to do a job to implement the Stortingen decision on a cut in the management apparatus of 25 p.m. We have voted for this time after time. I have pointed to the need for this in every budget line since the spring of 1994, and of course we are behind it as a party. The fact that the Progress Party has a different level of appropriations should not be criticised for. You should also criticize yourself for not fulfilling what you have set yourself as a goal. That we will have the opportunity, based on our judgements, to try to keep part of the sharp end of the defense, then no one should accuse us of that. Asking rapporteurs to make contact is what the Labour Party is doing, and you promise things. Let me now mention MTBs, which have been promised in search and cavities – including rapporteurs and ‘given’ them money. But what has happened to it? Not a cold water stripper!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e366	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e369	International events in the last few days have in many ways put many of the domestic policy issues and debate themes in a sharp relief. It gives rise to both thought and perhaps also to ask some critical questions about the time and attention we give to relatively simple, defined issues that fill our meeting cards. The major global and regional challenges and a number of serious conflicts that threaten stability and development also in our own area of interest should, in this respect, provide for an even greater political focus and a slightly higher focus on the Storting agenda of these issues. So I must say that I agree with Kristin Halvorsen's heartbreak here today when she points out that a debate on footnotes becomes central in a line-up with the country's prime minister on the census. Some of these questions I would like to mention, for example. the tense situation in the Middle East with violence and hatred, which has had the most tragic consequences, which also kills children. This is about the shift of power in Yugoslavia, which fortunately happened relatively peacefully, but where democracy is young and vulnerable and strives to find parties. This concerns the need and poverty of many of the developing countries and our responsibility as a rich country in making progress in creating greater global justice. Because only through social stability can we create political stability. This concerns the disarmament and control of nuclear weapons, the important work on the major global climate issues, and of course the major challenges now facing Norway to fulfil the role of elected member of the Security Council for two years. We are facing significant foreign policy challenges where Norway has played an active role. Many of these challenges come so close to us that it becomes impossible to distance ourselves by labeling ‘foreign policy’. In globalized reality, we share destiny with all the peoples and nations of the world. We can barely protect ourselves against the shock waves of economic cracks in remote countries. Environmental disasters on the other side of the Earth could also affect the climate here in the north. Armed conflicts in countries at a good distance from the safe North can also threaten stability in our own region. This isn't theory. We actually have this experience. That is why we also share a shared responsibility for finding good solutions in all these areas mentioned here. And, of course, the list of challenges is not exhausted. Our new membership of the Security Council next year gives us a new and important platform to work on a number of these issues. How can we – through an autonomous and active role and with our experience base and our societal values – contribute in a good way to the work of the Security Council on conflict resolution and reconciliation work and help to ensure that these important global issues are still high on the UN agenda? The road to a meaningful driving role in the Security Council does not go through solo games and self-marking, but through close cooperation with other members of the Security Council. But we should also be aware of the values and considerations that we believe are important as our contribution to good and forward-looking solutions. This means, for example: that we have greater opportunities to fight for important human rights, even if it affects sensitive issues in some countries, whether China, Russia or the United States. We should for example: could use this opportunity to charge and to put greater pressure on the United States and other countries that still practise the death penalty, because we believe that this violates a fundamental view of human dignity and human rights. We shall be able to charge and criticise violence and the use of weapons in the Middle East regardless of which party to the conflict is responsible for the abuse. The killing of children is deeply tragic and unacceptable and underlines the seriousness of this situation. At the same time, we must also guard against the tendency of unilaterally blaming one party to the conflict, with ludicrous perceptions of cause and cause relationships. It's a form of foreign policy distance consideration I have little sense of, and I think it too could weaken our credibility and our ability as an important partner and facilitate the peace negotiations in the Middle East. Furthermore, we should be able to press for a greater international impact on the reduction of the debt burden on the poorest countries, and we will be able to criticise unacceptable links between the rich countries between aid and their own industrial interests. Furthermore, we should be able to point out, press and draw greater attention to the follow-up to the level of assistance, so that it is more in line with and in line with the agreed objectives of the United Nations. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has already announced that he will give the Stortinget a statement of the Government's view on how Norway will fill its seat in the Security Council. I hope that it will also signal that the Government wants the Stortinget and Stortingen bodies to be actively involved, with information and consultation in relation to the matters that are pending in the Security Council. Yesterday, on the first day of the throne debate, climate policy became a major theme in many ways. This is one of the most important global management issues, where Norway also has the opportunity to ensure sound national resource and environmental management. The Labour Party parliamentary leader, Hill-Marta Solberg, wanted the main conflict between the Centre and the Workers' Party on the use of gas power in environmental policy yesterday. Understood: the rest should be able to agree with the Centre and the Workers' Party. But as was pointed out yesterday, without any particular impression of the Workers' Party's speakers, it is unfortunately not that simple. Unfortunately, the Labour Party's lack of vision and practical intervention in environmental policy mirrored a throne speech that was almost free of environmental policy. This is also seen by the Workers' Party's own environmental-conscious representatives, who had several good posts here yesterday. Appropriately, it is recognised that there is significantly less to bet on alternative renewable energy sources and on energy saving. It was just supposed to be missing. That is clear from the draft budget. Because there is a long way to go with the package of measures involving a contribution of DKK 5 billion over 10 years, in other words 500 million. D evenly distributed over these ten years. Nor is there a heavy commitment to research for the further development of technologies that can provide CO2-free gas power plants. But it's working on a national quota system that, hopefully, can be dealt with by the Spring Size, and this is obviously positive. But the government is charging the electricity tax without following up with the corresponding investment in new environmental technologies and new renewable energy sources, as the Energy Communication provided. And then the essential reason for proposing such a fee increase is missing. There has to be a link between what one charges, and what one wants to use these charges in environmental and climate policy. Public transport is also heavily affected by higher prices which will result from the Government proposing VAT on such activities. This, of course, also negatively affects the environment in the next series. In this context, the FID of the Workers' Party is a nominal increase in the Ministry of the Environment's budget of 80 million. NOK which covers the price increase and a little more. It's not much to brag about. And of course, it benefits cultural memories, outdoor life and predatory management. And that's good. We see that in a positive light. But climate policy is being neglected. And that's bad. Then we will see how this can be corrected when the Storting will deal with this draft budget later. The centre parties – and the Christian People's Party – will at least, for their part in any negotiations, assume that this needs to be substantially corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e395	When the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee places the emphasis on international issues that he made in his speech today and also mentions the Minister for Foreign Affairs yesterday in the way he did, there is good evidence that we have a broad consensus in Norway on the essential issues of foreign policy. It is an important legacy to bring with it, also in the important role that Norway is now going to play through membership of the Security Council. Otherwise, Einar Steensnæs focused on environmental issues. I think it's important to do that. But then it is also important to look at the overall positions of the different parties, and look at what practical cooperation in the Storting can bring the greatest environmental policy benefits. Now, of course, it's a certain urge at an opposition party to devalue what the government actually stands for. If you look at the Ministry of the Environment's budget, you will find quite important areas of activity here, not least the development of cleaner gas power plants. It is also true that green taxes could be an interesting tool in influencing consumption, even without the designation that Steensnæs is asking for. What is perhaps most important, however, is how Norway should contribute internationally to combating the environmental impacts of emissions. Then I am not sure whether the Norwegian gas power debate will become as simple as the intermediate parts will sometimes make it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e402	The call for common budgetary understanding with the centre parties this autumn was also made clear in Tom Thoresen's speeches here now. And we're going to have to try it out. We're not going to play the same retracted role that the Workers' Party tried to play, at least at the beginning of the central government period, where one tried to create artificial distances relative to what one could actually agree on. We are going into these negotiations – to which we are likely to be invited – with a sincere desire to accept co-responsibility. But it will be on very clear terms with regard to the budget, it will have to be changed on essential points. Now we can focus on the environmental budget, but there are also other issues. In particular, I would like to point to the framework conditions of industry, which the Workers' Party has almost rotted through in such a way that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the business world about framework conditions, about opportunities to invest for the future, about job security, etc. We're going to have to get back to that. But I stand here with the Ministry of the Environment's press release during the presentation of the state budget, and it says in the headline: 'Setting on cultural memories, outdoor life, predatory game, wild game, and climate research'. I have to say that in relation to the clear signals given when the Stortinget dealt with the climate communication in March, I had expected something quite different, a quite different bet on new renewable energy sources, on new environmental technologies that could boost some of the increased emissions that are coming, among other things. from the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. The Working Party has not followed up. We will follow that up in the possible budgetary negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e412	The new genetic and biotechnologies will revolutionise medical-technical development over the next 10-20 years. Man's reflections are being surveyed, and this opens up the possibility of using gene therapy to prevent, treat, even eliminate severe disorders that we are currently struggling with, such as diabetes. However, if we in Norway are to benefit from this technology and Norwegian patients are to share in this progress, Norwegian researchers must always participate at international level and not be inhibited by a national, Norwegian restrictive legislation, as the Christian People's Party has previously stood for. Will the representative Steensnæs and the Christian People's Party contribute to positive legislation in this area for the benefit of Norwegian patients, and will the party strengthen Norwegian research in genetic and biotechnology in the coming years? This is very necessary. There is a lot to be desired in medical research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e419	I agree with the representative John Alvheim that bio- and genetic engineering opens up interesting and important opportunities to relieve pain and to cure diseases that have so far been considered incurable. Through modern biotechnology and genetic engineering, we can now create new hope in people who live with poor quality of life, simply because the disease inhibits life development, actively inhibits participation in social and work life. From this point of view, we have no difficulty in agreeing with Mr Alvheim's wish for an increased commitment to this research in order to bring forward these possibilities. So essentially, our answer is positive. It creates positive opportunities, and we should exploit them. At the same time, there is no doubt that in the wake of this new biotechnology and genetic engineering, some important fundamental ethical issues need to be addressed. We must avoid that through this research, we are reducing human dignity and man himself to become a means of medical research. Here are some issues that I would like both a health politician as profiled as John Alvheim and his party, the Progress Party, to have more attention. Here, there are problems in dealing with and protecting the integrity and dignity of man, which can be threatened by this research. We want to stand for a precautionary principle that does not allow research to go beyond that we control what it does to man, and what it does to man as a genuine being with its own values.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e428	When you hear the representative Steensnæs and other representatives of the intermediate parties and SV mention the GHG agreement, you get the impression that you are talking about an agreement that has been negotiated. That's not right. Its implementation, its allowances and its compliance mechanisms are far from being internationally agreed upon. I would therefore like to ask the representative Steensnæs about how he behaves, for example. to the American record in the negotiations on the fulfilment mechanisms, namely that forest and forest growth are to be considered part of the agreement. It will have quite significant effects for Norway, and I think you might want to be a little careful to draw conclusions before the international consensus is reached. I repeat: forest as part of the CO2 agreement. That was my first question. The second issue is on a completely different theme, one that the representative Bondevik, the party's parliamentary leader, raised with the Prime Minister, namely how the Government will follow up the position of the Sandman Committee and what it thinks about the agreement. The Sandman Committee applies, among other things. sickness pay and disability benefits. It may be more natural to ask the Christian People's Party about this. What does the Christian People's Party think about the suspension of the Sandman Committee, taking into account that the party has programme obligations to limit the benefits of the health pay scheme? How will the Christian People's Party contribute to fulfilling its program during this great period?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e435	It is true that climate agreements are in no way in place. That's what makes us have to be careful about what we do at national level before we see that there are links that ensure that global climate considerations are properly addressed. What we are criticising both the Right Party, the Working Party and the Advance Party are: Before these mechanisms are in place, before we have ensured that this is under control, we build gaseous power plants that increase CO2 emissions – instead of the opposite – to reduce them. That's what we've committed ourselves to. Through the Kyoto agreement, we have committed ourselves to reducing greenhouse gases. What happens to the gas power plants is that we increase emissions by 5 pst. It's going in the opposite direction. I fully agree that in the case of forest and forest growth, there is an interesting opportunity to bind CO2. I have given lectures myself at the Norwegian Forestry Association's national meeting on this, and I have been positive about what it has not achieved, but I see the possibilities. This is the Sandman Committee's work. It was a sample that was set down by the central government. It was hoped that the parties would be united through the selection of a common solution. I'm afraid it didn't work out. As a result, this work is now much more difficult. We want to make a positive contribution to achieving what the majority in the Sandman Committee stood for. We will support that. We have programme obligations, as the representative Foss mentioned. We want to actively follow this up. However, the possibility of having an impact and having a majority and agreement with the parties was unfortunately greatly reduced when the selection deadline was shared.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e444	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e447	I would like to say that it is interesting to know that, after what I understand, the LO has a kind of veto right to the formulations relating to the working life of the Christian People's Party program. There is an interesting little reservation that the voters would have been interested in at the time. If we're going to look back a little bit on the first day of the debate and so on, there's one striking thing, and that's that the movements going on among the voters, sometimes caught up in polls, opinion polls, seem to have little impact on yesterday's and today's debate. It may be a sign of health in this way that, of course, one should not wave with swinging elective currents, but perhaps also a small cross of thought in the direction that the post-war perhaps strongest election fluctuations, which we have experienced in a short period of time, do not influence the Stortinge's debate. There are voters of this assembly, and election fluctuations can quickly change the composition of this hall – for good and for bad. I think the pick turns call for some analyses. I think maybe some of the things that are causing frustration, distance between voters and elected people is that politicians tend to live too long on myths and assertions that don't recognize the voters. We claim, for example, that we are Europe's richest country. That's a truth with strong modifications. We are perhaps the richest state in Europe. But as an economy, we're not among the best. I'll get back to it. Another myth in which the government party specialises: Every time you present a budget or a draft budget – a draft gets almost called it – you claim to be taken from the richest and given to the poorest. But the poorest never notice it, rather on the contrary. Those who can read a table will see that they're not getting richer. They lose a hundred kroner if they never earn so badly, at least if they have children and pay taxes, and most do. Then government parties are repeatedly heard to make sure that they have been and are predictable and stable in their policies, whether it be for the government of Jagland, Bondevik or Stoltenberg. But then the voters experience that the same parties are essentially changing their positions. The charge you were in opposition is too in position, etc. The voters hear politicians assure if a tax reform that will last for a long time, it must be stable and predictable, a broad majority behind it. But no more than two – three years have passed before the first changes are made, and now it is even completely thrown around. The warnings given by the Minister of Finance of the Central Parties against changing the tax reform do not follow either the central parties or the current government party. It's no wonder that voters in this context might get a little confused, to say it carefully, and maybe make their own movements. Back to the claim of Norway as Europe’s richest country: in relation to the state economy, it is true. But then a few reservations have to be made. What we're doing is we're moving a pension asset that we would otherwise have been lying in the North Sea to a fund that we now call the Petroleum Fund. It has little to do with petroleum, but it has a lot to do with pensions. We don't get any richer in and out of it. We can say it's added value, it creates jobs, and we're going to be happy about all of that. But as a fund for paying future pensions, we're just moving on to it. For every krone we pay to the ever-increasing number of government employees – for that matter also private sector employees – the debt of the state is growing to all of us. And that's the debt to be paid. The debt is payable with some of the funds, so the wealth is a relative concept in this context. To give a more nuanced picture, it is worth remembering that our wealth has to be constantly assessed in relation to the wealth and success of others. Then the following factors are also included: While other countries, our neighbouring countries in particular, are still modernizing their industry, among other things. with ever-increasing technology content in its industry and exports, we are going the opposite way. We're slowing back, while others are moving forward in technology content. Others are increasing their industrial output. We've relatively reduced it. The share of research in Europe is increasing. We haven't been able to keep up with that development. In Norway, the public sector has seen an exceptionally strong growth — out of proportion with the rest of Europe. Despite this strong growth in the public sector, the dissatisfaction with the public sector in Norway is very strong. It's actually the strongest where the growth has been the largest. In the health sector, there is no doubt that the dissatisfaction with public services is high. In fact, in the 1990s, especially in the last half of the 1990s, efforts have increased most in terms of resources. In other words, where we spend the most money, we also paradoxically create the greatest dissatisfaction. It should be a cross of thought. At least it should fully emphasize that there is something wrong with first of all the organisation. We don't get enough health out of every heads, to say it in a tabloid form that might get there. At the same time, it is part of the picture of the Norwegian economy — a little more short-term, but rather important — that while other countries are able to keep track of wage developments, improve their productivity and control price growth, Norway has none of them. The price growth in the last few months has been out of control in relation to the Government's forecasts. We have a productivity growth that for five consecutive years is worse than for all our competitors. We have a wage trend that is probably in the fifth year in a row stronger than our competitors. A lot of people are happy about it, but if we can't meet our productivity, we'll be hanging out again. So Norway as a country to produce and export from is getting worse. There is an alarming need for structural reforms in the economy. It sounds so nice, but it's really just about doing the same thing you have to do in the companies, constantly changing, constantly renewing, there's always a pressure to increase productivity, doing things smarter, wiser ways. The main area is to increase labour supply and to slow down labour losses. Other speakers from the Right have talked a lot about the need for, among other things, to increase access to labour, not least to recognise that we are part of a global economy and must be a country that also fights for the internationally attractive workforce, whether it is young foreign students who are educated in the Western world with excellent results, and would like to take jobs where they want to take up a job — then Norway too must join that competition — or unskilled workers who can nevertheless serve well in Norway and who we need. Our society should be inclusive, liberal enough and modern enough to accept these offers, because it is our welfare that needs them first and foremost. Secondly, the braking of the take-off on the labour force. Because it's a paradox that we need more and more jobs, and at the same time we're sending more and more people out of work. The budget documents provided by the Government provide a very good description of this. But there is an enormous distance between the description of a competent and competent agency and the policy measures that are completely lacking. Yes, lack of coherence is excruciating, as when the Government, for example, describes the following: Sick leave increases annually by 10,000–15,000 annual works. Each year it will be approx. The increase in early retirement has been completely out of control. In these areas, the Government assumes that development is halting. It is assumed in the budget papers that there will be no increase in sick leave next year, that there will be no growth in disability and early retirement beyond what the age distribution of the population would suggest, to quote correctly. This is something like asking for a good Christmas and a good New Year. That's what we want each other in Norway every year, and that's a good tradition, but I don't think it's very powerful as part of a policy. For there is nothing in the government's plans, in the throne, or in the posts of the government's representatives here that would indicate that this is one's ability to fulfill. The budget here is going to crack, and it's going to crack hard if you don't do anything. And the government party has not suggested doing anything in these areas. It is therefore to be excused that some of us are going to try us later in the autumn with proposals – not just to look at them, evaluate them and investigate them, but actually to get them implemented. It's actually for the well-being we do it, because if you don't have the power to do anything about these trends, so people get out of work, you don't have enough people to do the job of well-being. In yesterday's debate, it was also raised as an objection from representatives of the Progress Party that importing labour into Norway would mean importing them under wages and salaries, and so on. I just want to strongly refute it and say that these should, of course, enter tariff systems and negotiating systems and be protected by the law we have for other Norwegian workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e473	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e476	Per-Kristian Foss now described a series of features of Norwegian society and a series of features of Norwegian wealth that can be useful in discussing. But I listened and did not find such unambiguous strategies for how to solve what is our greatest challenges. One of the main challenges in my view is: how are we to better organise the Norwegian welfare society, so that people feel the security of everyday life that is productive for business and for the public sector, better? Yes, it's one of the Government's foremost objectives after the census, including how to streamline and improve the major health sector. There we know that the area of deficiency may not even be money, but the organisation and access of professionals. But then we also know that we have an economy that is pretty hot today. It means, in my opinion, that if we are to have room to make the necessary improvement and effort in the public sector, expansion across the whole economic area cannot be as strong. And this is where we meet Right's criticism, because the Right has as a recipe tax reliefs and is afraid to use taxes to regulate the level of the Norwegian economy. Then my question is, how has Per-Kristian Foss actually going to solve the problems he was designing for us?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e483	I could start by recommending an internal social-democratic seminar in the Socialist International, at least in the European department, because there the representative Thoresen would have been well-managed in how and why social-democratic governments in all neighbouring countries and in Western European countries are now cutting taxes, running tax competition to attract business, looking to increase value creation as part of the strategy also in order to secure the welfare state. We sign out of the tax competition and get in – to use the old Prime Minister's expression – that we are a tax haven, by tricking with numbers, giving crazy numbers and giving the impression that we are basically a very low tax country. It's just that those who pay taxes and who are on the business side don't notice it — rather, on the contrary, they move to other countries where they can get better arrangements. Young people in the IT industry are able to calculate – many people would say that this is what they can do for the most part – they can then calculate so that they can find out that they are travelling to Stockholm, they get better conditions. Of course, the big capitalists in Norway can be taxed like this, but the fact is that in Sweden there is almost no wealth tax from the large income. Look at the sum of what the Hennes & Mauritz and IKEA owners, etc., the ten largest, pay in taxes on wealth – almost nothing in Sweden. So a little social democratic pragmatism I would recommend as a first step. So I want to say that in several areas, the right has actually introduced renewal programs that others are now starting to notice. In a few major periods, we have probably pointed out that Norway can cope with two levels of government. The county council is unnecessary, and we want to save resources by removing it. I now see that we get surprising support from the working party team, and you do well to investigate it, in the meantime you also have to act. We also have the main approach to public services that they need to be done so that they get as much money as possible. Make the best possible use of tenders, outsourcing and purchasing services for quality and price.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e490	Yesterday I tried to ask the representative Jan Petersen some questions about how the Right considers the implementation of the proposal for increased immigration to Norway. I did not get a clear answer. But since the representative Foss is also a co-sponsor for this, I'm going to play the ball to him. One of the challenges of the Right’s proposal, which requires new foreign labour to live in Norway, is that it puts additional pressure on the housing market, especially in key areas, such as: in Oslo, where we know there's shortage of homes, and if more people go in and compete for the few homes we have, it'll only lead to increased pressure on prices, which is already high enough. When I asked Jan Petersen about this yesterday, I got a strange answer that we had to do something about the plan bureaucracy. Yes, we agree that it is fully possible to do something about the regulatory work, with exemption proceedings and other planning work in the municipalities. But the main problem is the lack of land. Does that mean that the President of Oslo Right, Per-Kristian Foss, now intends to work to do something about the Marka border and other areas so that we can have access to more areas for housing construction, or does Right mean that we are now going to have a further pressure on the housing market as a result of this? This affects me very little thought. And it's another relationship that doesn't come out clearly either. Does this proposal mean that the Right now opens up permanent immigration to Norway, with the long-term consequences for the Norwegian economy – are they thought about? Or is it so that the Right believes that this should be contractual labour immigration, which means that the labour force is sent back after a certain period of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e499	No, the right does not treat people, i.e. labour, as a kind of mail order with a right of return. Otherwise, I would say that the Progress Party had had a lot to learn from studying the actual conditions in Switzerland and other countries that practise short-term residence, because experience shows that most people get permanent residence. The trends are there as in other countries. We need an open labour market to ensure long-term well-being. The challenges and needs are greater in the long term than in the short term. So to this constructed problem of dwellings. I remember the last election. After all, all the immigrants who have been in Norway, in Oslo in particular, for a decade or three, were responsible for the high housing prices in Oslo. The husband of... I'm sorry, President. Hey, hey, hey, At least it's wrong. Immigrants are probably not large in the housing market if you first start counting square meters per. worker. That's not where the problem lies. And to say it like this, job vacancies have to be filled with people, people have to live, and they're going to live decently. Then they have to choose their own level from the available economy. The Progress Party has the vision in Oslo of building in Marka. You might have a lot of arguments against that, but I don't think I'm going to take the nature protection side and this with the need for recreation, where I think I can't have any dialogue. But I want to point to another area that I think the Progress Party understands, and that is: Why use the most expensive areas first? This was actually analysed in documents submitted by the City Council and dealt with by the City Council in Oslo. It is clear that the most expensive plots to use are where there is no infrastructure – it is in Marka. So if you're going to build expensive, you're going to build in Maridalen, in Sørkedalen, and in Kikut. If you have to build fairly, you have to build where there is infrastructure. And the plans show that there is pretty good access to such plots also in existing areas in Oslo, if you want to use them. And then I don't mind if it also gets a little high and close in between, because Oslo is a city, and people are able to live urbanly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e509	The President assumes that the representative knows that the word 'doubt' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e512	Today, the difference in taxation of income derived from capital and income derived from work is so large that it is related to the judgment of many people. In the Christian People's Party we believe that the difference in taxation of capital and labour income should be reduced. We have also been tempted by various solutions. In fact, this challenge is twofold — first, to help get a tax system that is perceived more fairly than is the case today. Secondly, it is a question of sharing the tax burden and exploiting the tax base that we have. It's simply that an increasing proportion of the revenue comes from the return on capital. My specific question will then be: Will the Right contribute to a reduction in the difference in taxation of income from capital and income from work compared to the present excessive difference? I have registered that Kåre Willoch was late yesterday speaking very strongly about the need for such a development. Elles has the representative Foss, in various contexts, expressed himself in sharp order on labour party government's business policy. In a press release on 4 October, he said, among other things: that the Government ‘risks jobs by proposing an extra tax of 1 1⁄2 per cent on all labour in the private sector’, and that ‘there is little doubt that the large losses in this budget are all private sector workers’. I have written in the Right's statement that the policy that the Government is showing in the State budget must be characterised as not particularly economical, to say it forms. The central government has led a much more business-friendly policy, and it must see the Right in good times. That's why I have to ask the representative Foss: does he now regret that the Right agreed to drop a business center government and give the country a worker party government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e523	No, we can't stop people from walking! Obviously, if we were in the Bondevik government as one of the parties, we might have had a somewhat greater influence on a prime minister who wanted to go. But we were not in the government, and our chances of preventing the departure were limited. I agree with the representative that when the Bondevik government cooperated with the Right, business policy became better than it would have been without. I don't want to go any longer. The idea of a business trip fee is not new, it was invented by the government of Bondevik. Then it wasn't as bad as now suggested, I'll admit it, but it was 2 pst. of salary payments proposed in the revised national budget for 1998. It should not, however, be taken to the state treasury – which comes with the mitigating element – to be deposited in the account of the Bank of Norway in addition to interest for five years. And I agree that this is a minor bad proposal. But it was described by an overall committee at the time as in practice a 2 pst. increase in the employer’s contribution. And I guess there's little comfort to the companies that would have gone successful in the third year, that they had money on book that they didn't get to take out. I don't know how the board would relate to it, but I think they would have problems. So I agree that the proposal was not as bad as the cyclical tax, but in practice it would not have any other effect for particularly weak companies. However, I record that the Workers' Party – as I said in my post, this is a chairroom – at the time said that this was a totally crazy increase in the employer's fee that was harmful to Norwegian working life. In fact, we are still on these terms, and I hope that we will receive support from the Workers' Party and the Centre this time too, because then we can reject the cyclical charge as we rejected the compulsory placement scheme in 1998. The question is whether we get smaller differences in the top marginal tax rate for labour income and the top marginal tax rate for capital income. The answer is yes. The attempts the Bondevik government made on this were unsuccessful. They went the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e532	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e535	The energy situation for Norway before has been that we were a net exporter of electricity for nine out of ten years, now we have to import power for two out of three years. In the energy message presented to the Stortinget in spring 1999, the then central government assumes that a deficit in power will have to be expected in the years to come. The majority of the population joined that assessment. There is also a recent focus on the impact situation. If we get cold winter days in large parts of the country, we can risk disconnects in parts of the day for a few months. This is because in such situations we do not have enough generation capacity at our power plants, and that the transmission system for power does not have enough capacity. The power balance from the rest of the world will also not have enough capacity in such a situation. This situation must be taken seriously. We're part of the Nordic power market. The power deficit in Norway is covered by imports of power — power that is much more polluting, for example from coal-fired power stations. During the energy notification process on 9 March, the majority of the population asked the Government to take a decision on the conversion of the emission permits granted to the power plants as soon as possible. Conversions were to take place within the framework of the pollution law. Until the entry into force of a system for the conversion of greenhouse gas emission allowances, emission requirements shall not be more stringent than those currently common to electricity producers in EU countries. As soon as the provisions of the Kyoto Agreement on flexible implementation mechanisms and a national allowance system are in place, gas power plants in Norway need to align this legislation and compensate for their emissions when purchasing allowances or implementing equivalent measures. The quota system will lead to a price for greenhouse gas emissions also in many areas where this is not the case today. The majority of the population have repeatedly agreed to build gas power plants in Norway. This has been done by the majority because we believe that it is one of the contributions to solving the energy situation and that it will help to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions in the Nordic and Northern Europe. Norway is one of the largest gas producers in Europe. The last year's production was approximately 60.7 billion standard cubic meters of gas. Only 2 pst. of our gas production we use domestically. The view and aim of the working party is to process more of our gas in Norway. To a large extent, Norway has been a producer of raw materials, and we have lost a large part of the value added up to the finished product. That's enough to mention as examples of fish and aluminum. Our goal is greater value creation and further processing in Norway. Furthermore, it is also the Workers' Party's view that our natural gas should provide us with a more environmentally friendly energy policy by putting it into use in such a way that it replaces more polluting energy. In the state budget, therefore, the Workers' Party has several stakes, and we are facilitating the use of the gas for energy purposes. The Workers' Party proposes a 20-million research appropriation for gas power plant cleaning technology. kr. It is also proposed to allocate 20 million. kr to a pilot project in Bergen, which will allow the use of natural gas instead of oil in a number of areas of transport, heating and industry. The working party will strengthen environmental work in many areas. We have a commitment to energy savings measures. We're putting the whole policy in this area. We'll get a new fund. We want to invest in alternative uses of natural gas, which will reduce emissions in the longer term. The Working Party's environmental policy is a significant contribution in the field of open-air policy, in the field of cultural memories, and not least in the field of the environment in Russia, and in a wide range of areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e559	The value creation in the country is the basis for employment and well-being. Over 90 pst. by national activities are small and medium-sized enterprises. These enterprises provide a value creation that is an important foundation for the welfare society we have and that we want to further develop. The distances in Norway are large. This is seen as a requirement for the infrastructure. A broadband network will be a vehicle to facilitate business conditions and be important for sustaining business development and value creation across the country. Communication and exchange of information can take place almost anywhere. Access to knowledge, competences and networks will be crucial for business across the country. The center party thinks it must be an objective to establish a digital universal right. Not only should all public and private activities have access to broadband networks, this should also apply to all households. Digital universal access will be a prerequisite for everyone, in the same way as they live, to have a real chance of continuing training and enhancing their competences. Simple access to knowledge and education makes it easier to participate in the supply. This is also important for business. The active use of the broadband network will also reduce the trough for transport and thus give a positive environmental impact. Nevertheless, the traditional modes of transport – car, boat, railway and aircraft – will also be decisive in the future for the construction and transport of people and goods. In the debate on 13 October last year, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, today's Minister of Finance, said: ‘The Labour Party considers that there is reason to increase the state’s investment both in roads and in ports.’ It was therefore with a certain expectation I listened to the speech of the throne in the fall, but the conversation was hardly easy. In financial terms, as Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen put it a few days later, it was not easy to recognize the former spokesperson of the Labour Party. On the basis of the budget presented, I understand that trafficking was largely bypassed in the quiet, both in the guise of the throne and in financial speech. Even if the Workers' Party has come into government and tries to forget what they have said about trade, they must also see that there are large, unresolved tasks in the field of trade. This requires too much money both for investment and for maintenance. While Odd Roger Enoksen was the municipal and regional minister, he commissioned Aplan Viak AS to prepare a report on state investment. This report is now presented with the title 'Geographical survey: State investment in counties and regions 1989-1998'. With this report, we have for the first time been given a current overview of the distribution of the country’s total investment. For the transport sector, this report shows that in 1989-1998 it has been a strong centralisation of investment. This trend has continued not only in the Labour Party but also in the submitted budget and in the national transport plan. This is a negative signal for those parts of the country that represent too much of the value creation and too much of the export right production. The Central Party believes that we should, of course, solve the transport challenges in the densely populated parts of Norway, but it should be equally obvious that we should solve our territory's challenges. In the populace, we need to invest more in collective solutions. In rural areas, road construction will be the best and often the only relevant measure. We have many examples of how important good communication is for the development of a community. Bending the communication can be the small thing to do to turn a negative development into a positive. I would like to mention just one example: in my own municipality we find one of two ferry projects in the country. The journey to Atlöy has been given later departures twice a week, and those who are on the island can buy an annual ticket that makes it cheaper to travel by ferry. This has made it cheaper to commute to the mainland to work or to participate in cultural activities. The economy on the island has reduced its spending. The holiday project together with some pilot community funds has created optimism and willingness to bet. In a short time, the downturn in the population has turned to popular sighs. Several people who had previously moved out have moved back. They're based on better communications. The island has been given several jobs. We need more measures that can create optimism in local communities, not just short-term projects, but permanent schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e588	The 20th century was in many ways the century of democracy. It was in this century that democracy came to its ultimate breakthrough. Although there were several major setbacks throughout the century, one at the turn of the 21st century is left with the fact that the vast majority of countries in some form want to appear democratic. It is no longer those who are in favour of democratic governance who have to justify why this is a good form of governance. It is those who believe that the form of government is not good who must justify their position. Also in this throne debate there has been a tribute to democracy, with the background to the elections in the Republic of Yugoslavia and the people's takeover of power in the country. There is reason to rejoice that another country is moving in a democratic direction. All democratic countries have a common responsibility to support fragile democracies, which are to start on a difficult path, including: building up political institutions. How, then, is our own democracy, our own rule of the people? A simple diagnosis can be summarised according to the following main lines: First of all. Election attendance is reduced by elections to local government, county councils and magnificence. A little over half of the voting rights are entitled to use the voting rights. Second of all. There is frustration in the local and regional political bodies because the political and economic space for action is so small. A well-functioning local and regional democracy is the engine of a living government. This is where the main policy balances, priorities and policy solutions are to be found. Moreover, it is local and regional levels that recruit politicians to the central level. Thirdly. When I talk about public sector reform, it is largely management and service production that is on the political agenda. The reform is justified by the need to create more efficient local and regional administration and not by the need to improve the functioning of local democracy, to increase popular participation. Fourthly. Democracy and political governance are presented as a threat to individuals and the market. Political interference is produced as something negative, there's someone out there who's trying to make life difficult for the individual, sticking chains in the wheels for the individual's free development. Fifthly. The political debate is on the rise. In good historical tradition populist groups and parties negate under the political debate. We see the same thing in other Western European countries, where strong nationalist parties win in elections. By virtue of their human view, these groups will easily evolve to become anti-democratic because they reject the basic norm of a democratic system, that everyone is competent to participate, and that everyone has the same rights. The sixth. Several political decisions are left to the market. The use of the market to distribute welfare goods is poor, because welfare goods are often scarce. Fair distribution of well-being can only take place through political decisions and policy priorities. In political democracy we all have one voice, in the market the strength of the individual depends on the wallet and the purchasing power. Let's assume that parts of this diagnosis are at least correct. So what are the political answers so far in this debate? First of all. Moving responsibility for the hospital sector, from being subject to regional democratic priorities to central governance. Second of all. From the Progress Party, we have been proposed that the State should assume responsibility for education, health, care for the elderly – i.e. a move from political governance locally to statutory rights for individuals. If you want to take a real suffocation on the local government, this is an excellent proposal. Our local and regional government has values in itself that it is our responsibility to take care of. No matter what good services we develop, if the government of the people is weakened, the very central part of the welfare society is gone. The basis for a good and decent welfare society is a living government that makes political priorities and economic choices. It is only a living government that can further develop the welfare community and that can change the unworthy fact that in Norway there are more than 70,000 children living in poverty. It is not the market that can solve the problems, it is only political choices and political priorities. In addition to having 70,000 children living in poverty, there are also a lot of adults with these children. Only through an active labour market capable of capturing those who do not always work at the top and through public welfare systems can poverty be combated. That situation is a disgrace, and must be removed as soon as possible. The concern for private capital has been high in this debate. The dividend tax and the cyclical tax will hit the business environment, it is said. As far as the debate is concerned, few people are concerned about the labour force, which, after all, is the most important factor in production and valuer. We have an education system that is characterised by public poverty. The business community that is screaming over a short-term cost of 1.5 p.p. has few comments that Norway is at the bottom of the OECD field in terms of investment in research. If Norway is going to get up to OECD level, we're going to have to spend $9 billion more, and then we're going to get up to the average OECD level. That means to increase your wager by 40 pst. in relation to the level of the day and at least half must come from the public. And it's through increased research, increased R & D efforts, we're going to create new products, new production processes, which are once again going to create the new jobs we're going to live on when the oil age is over. The state budget so far does not indicate that there is a great deal of will to take this seriously. Nor does it indicate that there is a great deal of will for the public to increase its efforts. The competitiveness or non-competitiveness of Norway is not determined by a modest short-term economic cost paid by industry from a large generated surplus. The question is whether we are willing to educate the population so that as a country we can achieve the benefits of a trained population. There is reason to rejoice that there has been a rise in teacher pay for the year's tariff settlement. The government took seriously the strong signals that came from the Storting. We're hoping that this will affect the recruitment situation. We hope that in this way we can attend and raise the school and give it the status necessary to ensure future recruitment. There is also reason to rejoice that much is happening in Norwegian school, but what still appears to be the situation in school is that it is characterised by a resource crisis. We in SV believe that the time has come to take a real economic lift for the school, primarily in primary school. The main problems are the absences. We're proposing to introduce minimum standards in terms of one hour. This shall include and equalise the differences between municipalities. There are far too many differences between municipalities in resource use. We want to stimulate creativity, test new ways of working and new forms of organization. This is absolutely necessary if we are to train young people to enter a working life that imposes entirely new demands on working methods. I'm dealing with the distributed proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e632	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e637	The representative of Rikvam was in his intervention concerned with democracy and participation. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is also important to balance the relationship between the individual and the community. Co-determination and responsibility for each other are central elements of a Christian-democratic vision for society. School is an important arena for training in democracy. The school is also an important valuer who needs to cooperate with parents and home on child education. This parental mandate is a clear element of the Christian People's Party's school policy, it is less prominent in SV's. The Christian People's Party wants a better school and would like to work with SV to get it done. The most important thing to get to a better school is, in the Christian People's Party's opinion, first, to get a good teacher who shows trust, and second, to take advantage of the local space of action in curricula and laws. Do Socialist Left Party and Rolf Rekovam agree that these two elements are the most important to get a better school? And where is the local responsibility and space of action in SV's school policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e648	The most important thing is to call for a strong public school, a school where all children go — a common meeting place for all, regardless of cultural and religious backgrounds. Let me also stress that in public school it is important to engage parents. We want parents to take responsibility. We want to draw parents stronger into school as active participants who take responsibility for this common school, of course, along with local democracy. We have a curriculum, we have a system that gives great freedom to each school. And we will defend this. It is important that individual teachers, schools and municipalities have this freedom, that they can choose their methods, their forms of work and their forms of organisation. We want to stimulate it. And we have. We have repeatedly proposed financial measures to stimulate schools to try out new forms of work and new ways of working in the framework of the curriculum. One of the proposals we have made today is precisely to provide an incentive grant for each municipality and each school to try out new forms of work, i.e. carrots to make them want to, and show the will to do so. So my challenge goes back to the Christian People's Party: Is the Christian People's Party willing to vote in favour of such a proposal that has just this as its aim?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e660	I have to admit that I was a little surprised by the dogmatic view expressed here by the representative from SV, that he sees it as a sort of threat that private take over the service offer. The basic thing for the Progress Party is that the service offer should be there, and we believe that by stimulating competition, it can measure that this is done in a quality and economic sense. Is it not more important for the SV representative that people receive a service offer that works than focusing on whether it is public or private? For the Progress Party, the main point is that the individual should receive the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e667	What was my concern was to say something about democracy, the people's rule, and the pressure it's under. It is important that people receive a good service, but it is also important who produces this, and how it is offered. It is therefore important to call for the central welfare goods involved in education, health, care for the elderly, etc. to be produced by the public, because that is how we can ensure equality, equality, and avoid differences in the offer to be made. If we open up to private operators in this type of production, we also open up so that people, for example, can buy additional benefits, and thus there is a slight difference in the offer to be made. So the fact that the government decides both what to produce, and also is responsible for producing it, is important in our opinion. That is why we are calling about the welfare state in this way; we are calling about public service production. But what was the most important thing for me in my post was to emphasize and highlight the local People's Government, because it's under pressure. In this type of debate where we are largely concerned with service production and services, we often forget the democratic aspect; the fact that we should be able to develop good local democracies is easily lost. As I tried to justify, the tendency is that people simply don't want to participate in elections, and that's an expression that democracy, the People's Government, is under pressure. It is serious, and there should be quite a lot of concerns in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e676	I agree with the representative of Rikvam that there is reason to be concerned about the local People's Council and its working conditions. On that basis, I find it a little strange that one point in the proposal that Rolf Rikvam raised on behalf of the Socialist Left Party is actually a proposal to restrict local autonomy. Minimum standards are to be introduced to reduce the differences between municipalities. No municipality shall be allowed to spend less money in primary school than a statutory minimum number of hours. This is a proposal to increase the state overarching of municipalities. In addition, if you want to ensure that the effect is achieved, namely that there are minimal differences, you also need to set a maximum limit for how much municipalities are allowed to use. It seems to me that this is an obvious contradiction of Reikvam if, on the one hand, he wants to strengthen municipal autonomy and, on the other hand, in such a significant area as primary school, which is one of the most important areas for which the local government is responsible, he wants the state to increase its over-government of the municipalities. There is one more point in the SV's proposal that I have major problems in understanding that, for the sake of seriousness, it is a good proposal. It says: ‘The number of pupils in the classes shall be reduced to the upper secondary level.’ I'm assuming that means you have to lower the absolute ceiling by 28. Now it is very much demonstrated that this is the most expensive of all possible measures to improve the working situation in school. There is also evidence that if there is to be any demonstrable impact on quality and working conditions in school, the ceiling needs to be reduced dramatically, for example. from 28 to 20. Otherwise it has no detectable effect at all. This is a reform policy in school that I think is wasted money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e688	The maximum number of pupils at primary school is not 28, but 30 – only so that it is also clarified. With this proposal, we want to ensure a minimum number of hours, that's right, and that could possibly limit local freedom of action. But this is going to replace ear-marked means. Instead of going the path of ringing, we want to introduce a system of minimum hours, and that's not a revolution. This is a system that we used to have, among other things. in primary education, which was lost in the context of the new income system early in the 1990s. It turns out there's been a dramatic cut to school around the municipalities. I don't think it's a bad will, I think it's an expression of municipal poverty. This is dramatic and creates so big a difference that, in our opinion, we have to reintroduce a system that ensures each school a minimum of one hour. Then, of course, municipalities are free to use more, but not less, according to local circumstances. Of course, as I said, it can restrict local freedom of action somewhat. But as I said, the differences are so big now that we see that this is a necessary measure. When it comes to lowering the number of students in the class, we know that there is a connection between the working environment of a class and the number of students, and we believe that this is a necessary and correct measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e699	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e702	Less absenteeism and lower sick leave, day-to-day management, fewer and simpler rules, better schooling and better hospital services – these are some of the results the Government wants to achieve through public sector renewal programmes. We will move resources from businesses and work areas with less needs to where they are really needed: in health care, elderly care, school and kindergartens. The ambition of the Labour Party Government is to implement the largest public sector conversion project ever. The public sector works well in many areas, yet we know that there is a need for change and improvement. The government's vision is short and good: more well-being for the money. Renewing the public sector is not an objective in itself, but it is a means of achieving more important objectives, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t the population and users' needs shall be at the centre of more service production and less administration more local freedom and less detailed management more responsible and efficient units motivated and competent managers and employees The welfare state is our best guarantee of legal certainty and that different interests and needs are bred and prioritised against each other, without anyone being pushed out due to a lack of ability to pay. But it is absolutely essential that the public sector be better able to meet people's different needs and expectations. The public sector must ensure that the individual uses the services and quality of services that it always has a political agreement that the public should be able to offer. With changed management systems, organisational changes, greater autonomy for service-producing units and more efficient use of the skills of employees, we can get more well-being for the money we have at our disposal. It is clear in the public interest that management services are produced as efficiently as possible. This allows for the deployment of freed-up resources where the need is greater. An efficient public sector that underpins business value creation is also the best guarantee for safe jobs and a strong public sector in the long term. However, public sector innovation can also be an inspiration for workers and a good starting point for new recruitment. But before we ask how services can be improved and made more efficient, we have to dryly ask whether this is a service that is really needed, and whether the public has a responsibility to solve this particular task. There must be a reason to ask questions. We can't just build one task on top of another, at the end of the day we can't fulfill to the population the promises we give ourselves. There are four important assumptions that must be present for us to succeed in renewing the public sector. Firstly, employees and businesses need to be able to meet new challenges in a good way. Activities must have the capacity to convert and develop flexible solutions that meet new and different needs. The employees have to show the willingness to think and act in new ways, and some actually have to expect to move. Another necessary prerequisite is to develop the formal frameworks towards freer organisation, regulatory simplification and delegation of powers. This will allow greater scope for efficiency and local decision-making in close contact with users. But when we're going to delegate, we have to delegate based on trust, not on mistrust. The current reporting and control needs far exceed the administrative gains of framework and target management. A third prerequisite is that the process is supported by good leadership anchoring and political will, including here in the Stortinget. The fourth and crucial prerequisite is participation and creative input from users at grassroots. One of the new major challenges Norway will face in the years to come is the lack of labour. I'm saying new, because this hasn't exactly been a topic in the last ten years. After a period of low growth in production and employment, good growth in the Norwegian economy remains. In the past six months, production and employment have grown, and the increase in unemployment we saw one year ago has stopped and has actually decreased. More people than ever participate in the labour market. Compared to other OECD countries, participation in employment in Norway is among the highest and lowest. Many enterprises and parts of the public sector experience a shortage of labour. This is evident not least in the health and care sectors. At the same time, 15 000 people are long-term unemployed, many people with a migrant background are out of work, and many people with a working disability are not allowed to use their job skills. In recent years, we have also had a significant and worrying exit from the labour force through an increase in the number of under-employed and early retirement. Contributing to the rapid entry of unemployed people into job vacancies and mobilising labour resources among immigrants and workers with disabilities will therefore be one of the main challenges of labour market policy in 2001. Those who need assistance in addition to placement to work, in particular those who are long-term unemployed, may be offered qualification measures, and in particular: more disabled persons are to be tried out for re-employment in order to increase their chances of getting into work. To this end, we need a powerful and effective public labour market seat and an adequate level and range of labour market measures to play on. Better coordination of measures is also an important tool to maintain labour and at the same time ensure that disability does not mean permanent exclusion from the labour market. The aim is to improve the coordination of services and legislation and to strengthen cooperation between the public and employers sides based on the needs of users. This will also be important measures to mitigate the growth of social security expenditure. The increase in sick leave and the number of young disabled people raise questions about current instruments. However, changes in legislation and its practice are not sufficient. Organisational challenges need to be considered, including: the functioning of cooperation between municipal health and social services, the state social security system, the health and safety at work authorities and the labour market system, and, let me add, the treating physician. We cannot solve these problems if all these agencies and institutions are to continue to live in their own world without being forced to cooperate better. Much indicates that the workforce will grow little in the coming years. At the same time, we know that the needs for services will increase, not least in the healthcare sector. If we are unable to limit the departure from work and exploit the labour resources available to us, shortages of labour will contribute to a lower welfare level in society than otherwise could have been. Although I too am too much for increased labour immigration, I do not think that labour immigration alone will be able to solve these problems unless at the same time we do something about the marked exclusion from the labour market that we are experiencing today. The important tasks of labour market policy in the coming years will therefore be to contribute to increasing labour supply, reducing labour losses, freeing labour from administration to service provision and increasing social productivity. To sum up, the government's vision is more well-being for the money. For this reason, we will renew, transform and streamline public administration so that it can function better in relation to the needs of the population and the socio-economic considerations such as government and growth at all times. The main objectives will be: Organisation and service production shall be based on the needs of users. Resources shall be transferred from administration to service production and from sectors with declining needs to sectors with increasing needs. Efficiency of resource use and increased space for action at all levels. The public sector will become more user-friendly, more efficient and more service-oriented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e783	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e786	Governments wish to renew the public sector. Governments have no doubt that there is much to be gained in the administrative areas of the country, in terms of both economic savings, development of competences and efficiency. In sum, this should provide a more efficient and streamlined management, which in turn could benefit the public in terms of better and faster services. This has always been something we in the Progress Party have said. The Progress Party has always been of the opinion that the public sector should be the servants of its citizens and fulfil their wishes as quickly and as best as possible. In this forthcoming increase in efficiency that the Council of State now wants, the question is whether it is right to add even more financial resources to this sector. The party of progress is of the opinion that this renewal should also be able to release funds for other uses. In addition, the Progress Party wishes to respond to the danger of two alternative services, one public and one private. Does not the Council of State think this will also increase the provision of services, so that users get a better offer? And that must be what's important, not who's doing the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e795	Let it be clear first of all that we don't just want a renewal, we're going to get a renewal, and we're going to get it because it's absolutely necessary. Only the reforms already adopted by the Stortinge require approx. 100000 more employees in public welfare services with regard to health, care and children. There's no way in the world to do this unless we simultaneously renew, simplify and improve. That's why this isn't just a wish, it's something that we're going to implement. I can with quite wide pens sign that this will also provide a resource improvement, but it will not put money at the disposal that can in itself be given as tax relief. The money that we can get out of this performance improvement must be ploughed back into the service offer we should be able to meet the challenges of the future. This is an absolute need in relation to the reforms that the Stortinget has already adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e804	The Government of Bondevik had started well with the ‘Simplifying Norway’ programme. The reason for the program was to make life easier for the individual, for all too often the meeting with the public becomes a frustrating and tiring affair, characterized by bureaucratic and rule-driven thinking. ‘Simplified Norway’ means the user, the individual, in the centre. And there should never be any doubt that public bodies and public bureaucracy are going to tend the inhabitants and not the other way around. The health care centre shall be characterised by trust, security and care. Public offices should be characterised by service settings, helpfulness and short processing time. The programme ‘Simplifying Norway’ had a two-year horizon, and after six months more than 100 individual projects were launched, public service offices, service statements, various IT projects, etc. So the program was well under way when the government of Bondevik had to leave. A necessary, useful and timed project was put on track. It was noticed, and there were expectations of it. Luckily, when the government joined Stoltenberg, the renewal of the public sector was launched as Flagship itself, and part of the projects started by the Bondevik government were carried on. I'm still a little worried, because I have a sense of the current government's willingness to renew the public sector so far has been more words than action. When an act of halving State supervision is promised, the question is, how is such a goal to be achieved? What will the government do to reduce administration and increase service provision in the public sector? And what kind of new measures does the Government intend to take in addition to the measures initiated by the Bondevik government? Finally, is it a goal for the current government's public sector innovation programme to focus on individual concerns?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e817	I said three times in my post that the basis and condition for the implementation of this project, which is the largest in terms of public sector reorganisation, is that the user should be at the centre. There should be no basis for asking about it. And when you also ask what measures we are going to take next year, I can only take one example, which is also important for the Storting to end up, and that is all that has been signalled and proposed in the context of the municipal planning for the next year: to limit the earmarked funds, to limit the state-level detailed management of the municipal sector, partly according to requirements and wishes that have arisen here in Stortinget, is absolutely essential for us to be able to establish a user-friendly service production, because most of the service production takes place in the municipalities. Therefore, the treatment of municipal housing for the next year will in many ways help to form the foundation for how fast and how far we can go. And then I can assure you, as I have done in the past, that all the proposals contained in ‘Simplifying Norway’ that make sense will, of course, be taken up and carried on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e825	The government of Stoltenberg appointed one of its most experienced parliamentarians and former government councils as Minister of Labour and Administration. We expected a lot of that. The government statement may have picked up the modernisation and renewal of the public sector as the one new issue. That's why we were expecting this post, because it was even, as I understand, a press conference. Something new must have happened. It must be said with all due respect that in that case it must have happened outside this hall, because in the post I now perceived a number of general and reasonable considerations – nothing new and nothing at all concrete. When the Council of State in the succession then reinforced the message by saying that they don't just want to do it, but will do it, it's probably a concreteization that's not going to be standing in history. The question is how to implement the renewal of the public sector. That's where the controversy lies, and the Kosmo Council has it all figured out that he's always going beyond the controversial. So I'm going to ask two concrete questions. A sign of a good government is that you open your letters and respond to them. In a newspaper yesterday, I read that last week, the Kosmo Council of State received a letter from the Director of Labour, Mr. Hanisch, with some views and suggestions. In the paper, the representative of the ministry said that the council had not yet read the letter, and that no one else had opened the letter because the council had not been present. Have the Council now opened the letter, read about the play, and could he possibly give some general considerations that are to be perceived as an answer to the rather new challenges, Mr. Hanisch gives to the Government? The budget assumes that next year there will be no increase in sick leave and that there will be no increases in disability or early retirement in addition to keeping the relative distribution with regard to age. My question is, how?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e842	I can assure the representative Foss that the letters will be opened in the department at the moment they arrive, they will be posted and immediately taken to the office, even if the Council of State is on its way. When I returned from the trip, I received not only the letter, but also recommendations from the department on how to follow up the suggestions that came from the employment manager. So you can't live in the belief that the ministry's work will stop because if the council is traveling. It's not like that. We will come back to the concrete proposals that Mr Hanisch raises, and in particular the concrete proposals that the representative, Mr Foss, addresses in his document No. Eight proposals, which I understand, are being sent to the committee for consideration. As I said in my post, we need to increase labour immigration in the future, but we also need to do a lot of other things in terms of working life. We must not believe that just as we open up more labour immigration, we are solving all the other problems. In fact, the labour market challenges are greater on the second issue raised by the representative Foss, namely to prevent exclusion from the labour market due to the huge growth we have had in sick leave and disability pensions. As far as I remember, the government is stipulating a growth in sick leave even to next year. But we're going to work intensively to prevent that growth from becoming as large as dictated. If we don't reverse that trend, we have serious problems, not only with social security costs, but also with getting enough people to work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e851	I also have two questions for the Kosmo Council of State. I think maybe they're easier to answer concretely than the two previous questions. The first concerns postponing competition, privatisation. There is currently a great deal of positive migration and organisational development work in Kommune-Noreg. The search light is seen on better services and at higher quality. Many municipalities are now assessing the launch and privatisation of competition and at a time when riots are actually being reported in many communities in Sweden, because they think privatisation, the disclaimer of responsibility from the public, is going too far. Needed help is missing. Is the Workers' Party in agreement with the Centre party that municipal operations in the care sector, where appropriate in cooperation with voluntary organisations, provide the highest level of security and stability for those in need and for those in need, and are therefore preferable to commercial interests? My question No. two liabilities for the outsourcing of state tasks. In an MMI survey published in August 1999, 560 out of 1000 responded that they moved from District Norway into a city or urban area because of work – to get a job or to get a better job. In Kosmo's department there is a report from February, with examples of the relocation of state tasks that may involve both the renewal of many communities and the renewal of the public sector. Will Kosmo follow up that report, in case when and in what way?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e860	For the vast majority of municipalities in Norway, the challenge will not be the issue of competitive outsourcing or continued public activities. The challenge will be to establish the reorganisation and innovation of the ordinary public activities of the municipality that will allow a reasonable exploitation of the competence of the employees. It's not happening today. If you do that, I would assume that there wouldn't be a need to ask the question of privatisation, because that service would be so good that the audience wouldn't ask for anything else. The question of privatisation comes not only as a result of poor economic needs, but also as a result of the dissatisfaction of some of the population with the service offered. And then the only answer is to do that service better, and I think it's completely possible to do that. I do not believe that outsourcing and privatisation are an instrument in the renewal process. I think changing the nature of businesses, giving employees the freedom to take advantage of their skills, is a much better response to that challenge. Then I hope the municipalities follow it up. But if a local government wants to privatize, there is no power in the world that can prevent it – because we want municipal autonomy. In the context of the introduction of new technologies, of course, we need to continuously assess whether either all or part of state activities can be moved to communities other than where they are currently located, as long as it is possible to maintain such a sensible and good organisation of that service that we can, in fact, also improve efficiency, not the development of bureaucracy. Information technology allows us to do a lot more than we've done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e869	The government has made the modernisation of the public sector a fanatic, and there are many good estimates in it. But I am still concerned about what the Workers' Party really means by modernising. More signals have been received, including: from some government councils who in the summer blessed privatisation, to the Kosmos cash rejection of the order-execution model, as I experienced it, at the large conference of the local community earlier this autumn, among others. because it will lead to more bureaucracy. SV also wants to convert and renew the public sector, because it is not good enough. There is a lot of good work done, but that is not good enough. There's too much bureaucracy, there's too many tight shots, there's too little cooperation, and in some places it's also too bad human treatment. SV believes that that transition must come from the left, it must be based on the principles that the welfare state has now made and that the ‘For the welfare state’ action has also been endorsed. I want a clearer signal from the Labour Party whether these are also the principles on which it should be based. It is not possible to get away from the fact that it is the dilution, or the skewer, of the municipal economy in the last few years that has led to privatisation and to the sale of municipal enterprises. In some places this has happened out of pure ideology, but in most places it has happened out of distress. And then is my challenge: Does the Workers' Party believe that the municipal scheme for the next year is good enough to meet this, because the demand for ever more efficient in meaning ran faster also led to the depletion of many public employees? And there are women that apply. Thus, there is too much background to the dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction out of work we have seen lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e880	Yes, with the municipal structure we have set up for next year, I believe that the municipalities have a very good chance of getting back on the offensive, assuming that they do their own important part of the job with the renewal – reorganization of the business to prevent people from running away, but perhaps starting to go and do something structured at the same time, and that they can take advantage of their competence for the benefit of the users. Today, too many people are sitting and writing completely unnecessary reports, and large administrative red tapes that are sitting and handling these reports that are not going to work out, rather than exploiting their competence for the users. The conversion process, the renewal, must be addressed by the municipalities. Then they get some resources at their disposal at the top of the municipal structure we've laid down. In addition, it is therefore possible to streamline services in a proper, good way by organising services in a sensible and efficient way. With those elements, I strongly believe that it is possible for us to carry out the renewal process with the welfare community as a foundation. What we want and what we need to achieve is to improve the well-being of the people of this country, not reduce it. Then we have to be willing to prioritize and use resources differently from what we are doing today. Last, but not least, it also requires that the Greatness is willing to accept that both greatness, government and directorates must give up power. It is not possible to sit here in the Chamber and adopt quite a number of detailed requirements on how the municipal sector should be managed, while expecting the municipal sector to be able to be more efficient. There are some links between the requirements and the resources transferred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e892	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e895	The left and many others have asked what the Workers' Party believes Norway should live on in the future. That's an important question. One good answer to that is to put a real effort on higher education and research. This isn't just an answer to what we're going to live on, it's just as much about what we're going to live for. Higher education and research are social building, not least at a time when society is becoming more diverse and individual choices are increasing. Norway needs research environments that allow the development of knowledge across a broad register, both through basic research and in areas of direct relevance to future business and value creation. The main problem of higher education today is the growing gap between performance expectations and quality and the lack of resources to follow up. Especially bad is that we've been starving for very many years at the base of all other academic activity, the free basic research. In the view of the Left, it is not possible to see that the Labour Party Government has taken this sufficiently seriously in its draft budget. We've received a government budget that is alarmingly very poor for our universities, six months after the research report established a commitment to higher education and research. This is happening — while we have not been given the obliging escalation plan to reach the average OECD level in all kinds of research, as the Stortinget also fixed last spring. Looking at the state budget for the current year, presented by the central government and adopted before the Stortinget examined the research report, research appropriations increased by 8.3pst. In the draft budget for next year, the increase is down to 5.2 p.m. and the university operating framework is being reduced. It may seem like the small research effort involved is aged with cuts in the budget for higher education. I believe this testifies to the lack of coherence and understanding that higher education and research are interdependent. In the comments of the Research Communication, all parties, except the Advance Party, stated the following: ‘The majority therefore consider that a ceiling for research recruitment must be accompanied by a significant increase in the operational budgets of universities and colleges.’ So this is going to be the opposite. For example, the basic budget of the University of Oslo is being reduced. in real terms, with 58.5 million. kr, or 2,9 pst. The University of Bergen receives a corresponding reduction of 44,5 million. kr. All the means of conversion allocated to universities in the current year have also disappeared without a trace. "This is the most difficult budget in my time as university director," says Kåre Rommetveit at the University of Bergen. Emil Spjøtvoll, Vice-Chancellor of NTNU, commented on the budget as follows: ‘Unfortunately, weakened education in the long term leads to a weakening of research — some have to train future researchers.’ What signals do we send if, six months after the research report, we are already on the glide away from the promises? Is the Workers' Party aware of going into 2001 with a government budget that gives people a little cheaper spirits and meat but does not give a strong boost and a commitment to bet on our research communities? It is also thin in nutrient research, with zero growth for most instruments. In fact, a positive follow-up of the Hervik Committee has been achieved through a new 200 million grant scheme. NOK, but this will be a piece on the road fed by VAT on research into contracts. The left considers that repatriation of universities and basic research communities must of course be part of the follow-up to the research communication. Something else would be to trick both ourselves and all of our academic environments. And let it be allowed to say, after having had some experience in making budgets, that it's a strange construction when we say for some time that the seed for the future is the knowledge set aside for the future, and then we don't do it in a different way than what's happening now. There's got to be enough skills to solve this. The government is taking a creative step on its way as it increases the proposal to set aside funds for the Research Fund. But when we look at the sum of this, it's a pretty gloomy signal. It's a signal that doesn't honor and honor people like that. express itself in the following way to me: – We cannot wait, Dørum, that we get more pay from the state, at least not so that it competes with the private. But we expect so much that we can cultivate the curiosity that drives us. We expect to have an overview of operational appropriations for our research projects, not for one year, but for three years to come. We expect that. – So we're not able to do this. When we take researchers from other countries to our own country, they discover after a while that we deliver poor Norwegian advertising. They find out how tough it is in normal operating situations. We can take the budget of the University of Oslo as an example. When the number of students increases, you cut. When the student count drops, you cut. When the Stortinge provides strengths for conversion and when you want to invest in research, you keep cutting. This is a signal that goes against what was the subject of the previous Council of State action here in the pulpit: modernising and renewing value creation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e939	First, the exchange of views on the school leisure arrangements between the Progress Party Hagen and the Prime Minister earlier today. The Prime Minister has his words in mind, and so on, when he makes the policy of the Progress Party as the death grant for the school leisure system. It is true that in May the Government proposed to include the grant for the school leisure scheme in the municipal income system from 2002. The Centre Parties, the Right and the Advance Party would move faster and integrate the grant into the School Leisure Scheme as early as 2001. The Labour Party did not agree to promote this proposal, but voted in favour during the voting, among other things. because it would not happen before the autumn of 2001. The Labour Party, on the other hand, will strengthen today's offer of school leisure arrangements. The inclusion of the grant means that the money is still transferred to the municipalities. Whether the Advance Party stands on its own and agrees that the money will be included and it will not be cut or discontinued, we can only wait and see until the budget for next year is settled. In any case, it does not help that the Progress Party incorporates something into the financial framework of the municipalities, when they then in the next round cut in the frame. There won't be much money left for municipalities to pursue welfare policies. Only for the current year, the Progress Party cut billions of dollars in the framework of the municipalities, simply a breakdown of the municipalities' economy. What they do next year, we can just wait and see. At least the freedom of choice of municipalities does not increase, nor does it improve the ability of municipalities to grant grants to the school leisure system with the financial arrangements of the Progress Party. There's no doubt about it. It is therefore not appropriate when the Progress Party cuts in the transfers to the municipalities and at the same time says that they should give the Norwegian people a better offer than the Workers' Party wants, especially to the school leisure system. But again: Nothing is better than whether the leader of the Progress Party is now opposed to his own programme, or – let's say – is moving towards his own policy, which he has a long tradition for here in Stortinget. I'm just saying, come along, come along, I don't think so until I see it. We still have many challenges in Norway, although we have a very good country to live in internationally. We have challenges across the public sector, for the entire service production going on in the public domain. The challenges are greatest in health and elderly care. Although we have never treated so many people in hospitals, there are still too many in line – people waiting for treatment. We have very good hospital equipment that is used in many places only for a few hours every day. It had been defined in business as poor use of investment. Elder care has gradually been developed for the better, and more and more people are getting a worthwhile old age. We need to develop an even better care for the elderly — one room for more elderly and more home-based care. This requires more labour and, above all, we need to reduce sick leave, for example. in the health sector. Better organisation and greater freedom of action for individuals in the workplace could contribute to this. The Workers' Party will provide municipalities with better armrests so that they can become an even better service provider. It's about giving each one of us security right outside the front door. The Workers' Party does not want people themselves to obtain tenders for public services by calling around to buy a private service. We would rather give the municipalities greater freedom of action, so that they will be able to provide a quality offer that nobody questions, and that is there when you need it. A number of municipalities, not everyone, have done a lot to become more effective. It can be measured that more services are provided than ever. But there is still a need for renewal, and we need an even more user-oriented management. We need to streamline and simplify legislation and procedures that prevent the provision of good services to users. The municipalities of Norway will have an even better economy next year, enabling them to supply the services people demand. We facilitate state detail management by earmarking less what the money will be used for. In my opinion, the size has for many years expressed distrust of the municipal level by regulating public activities through 6,000 laws, regulations and regulations. With that, we get too rigid a system, and we don't get to take advantage of the creativity of the employees. A good care for children, the elderly and the sick is a quality stamp for any society. We're already in the top rank, but we're going to get even more and better, because we can afford it, and we'll give it priority over personal wealth. This is the goal of the large majority of the population, even though the path to the goal – we have a different approach to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e968	The government says in the census, among other things. that the use of gas, renewable energy sources and the efforts to limit energy consumption contribute to more environmentally friendly energy production. And in order to achieve these objectives, the Government proposes in its proposal for State budget instruments as support measures for investment and the use of new renewable energy sources and, of course, an increase in the electricity charge to consumers on half an ear before VAT and a corresponding increase in the fuel oil charge of 11.2 øre per. liters. In addition, there is also a charge for the industry of 1 penny. It should not be a big surprise to anyone in this room that the Progress Party is less concerned about energy consumption in Norway than other parties. For many years, all parties outside the Progress Party have been aiming to reduce the increase in energy consumption. But the result has been the exact opposite for the same time. And then why should we limit consumption? Is it so wrong that in this cold country we will use some energy to feel good and warm in winter? Is it so wrong that we nordics use some of our natural advantages to compensate for some of our natural disadvantages? No, it was just supposed to be missing. It has been a myth over many years that we Northmen are great wasters of energy. This isn't right. The overviews from NVE, EnFo, and the last fresh one I got from NELFO, showed that energy use in Norwegian households is no larger than in other countries we normally compare with. On the basis of this, the party of progress will distance itself from the hysteria that has been created, that we are wasting so much energy in Norway. We do not want to use taxpayers' money for measures designed to change energy consumption, but rather to stimulate free competition between energy sources, so that the energy market works as best as possible for consumers. Is there perhaps a shortage of energy that makes the government think we should limit consumption? That can't possibly be the reason. Norway today appears to be an energy storm power, with a total production of nearly 3000 TWh in the form of oil and gas and power, and we can only use 7-8 pst. of this itself. We have almost one third of the total European hydropower production, we have 45 pst. of the gas reserves and 75 pst. of oil reserves. And to put it a little bit into perspective, we're going to be less than 1 pst. by the population of Europe. The fact that we have had to import force from time to time is not due to the lack of energy, but it is due to the lack of political will and power in this room to exploit the enormous energy resources we have. We have to remember that large parts of our power generation go to the power-intensive industry. It is, of course, access to power at competitive prices that is the direct reason why we have had valuables for many years, which have created many viable industrial communities across the whole country. For many years we have had politically-determined power contracts for industry. The size decided last year to phase out these against a more market-oriented system. However, industry has put the politicians in the vanguard. An increasingly large part of the ‘trader’ industry is now free in the power market, and this works to everyone’s satisfaction. I have already mentioned the government's means of limiting consumption: a sharp increase in the electricity charge for consumers, which has hit those who already have the least, minimum pensioners and others, who do not benefit from an increase in the minimum deduction. This is poorly consistent with the Minister of Finance's beautiful words about a budget for increased well-being and fairer distribution. The impact of the electricity tax on industry is, if possible, even more dramatic. Yesterday I got a fresh overview from the National Association of Process Industries, where these consequences were highlighted. This, of course, turns out to be different from the different types of industry, but the worst example is a melting plant with increased expenditure of DKK 93 000 per year. employment. NOK 93 000 per year. work! It goes without saying that the few companies can survive with such an increase in costs. I therefore react with amazement when LO leader Yngve Högensen says that this is the best budget proposal for a long time, when the consequences will be that thousands of his members will be put on the portal if the draft budget is adopted. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e986	The Trontale from the government of Stoltenberg points out a clear course: more fair sharing and social smoothing. If you have a lot, you have to spend more, and if you have little, you have to get better. This is followed up by the presentation of the State budget. There is a clear emphasis here on prioritising joint services rather than private consumption. All parties say it has to bet on the school. The Labour Party has shown that we are taking this seriously. The size of the population manages in our action plan for recruitment to the teaching profession. The working party has followed up. The teacher's salary increase was the most important thing right now. $30,000 in paychecks has been paid to individual teachers. The flexibility that is now possible within the contract work allows municipalities to make much better use of resources. Now we have to think about how to improve learning. In the fall, the department conducts a hearing where students and professionals can make recordings of today's learning challenge. Here the focus is on both pre-school and general school education. The central theme of the hearing is the learning environment, forms of work and teaching, interaction between students and professionals, ICT and the content of the organisation of education. I would like to stress that it is done very well in Norwegian school today, but it can be better. That's why the teacher education is important to address right now. Municipalities are also invited to participate in trials aimed at the further development of the teacher role through cooperation with other youth professionals, or the testing of different schemes for the use of first-class/pre-school staff, the alternative allocation of hours at youth level and the student assessment without the use of characters at youth level. Overall, the application to the Department shows that there is great activity and scope in creativity. The working party will continue the efforts made by the Bondevik government in its school package. It includes, inter alia: the quality development of the basic and further training, and it includes additional efforts on ICT training and the continuation of the lending scheme for higher education material. For the first time in the fall, the elephants in the advanced school received some school books for free. Some elephants saved about NOK 1000. In the Labour Party, we hope that we will have multiple numbers to pass on this good order, and that it can also develop learning material for the Internet. An investment in research is investment in the future spring. Long-term fundamental research and research of high international quality constitute the foundation of such an investment. The research fund created is important in this context, and I would like to stress that research efforts must be stepped up in such a way that Norway is at least at the level of the OECD average in five years. Both public and private funding needs to be strengthened in order for this to be possible, and therefore the Government is going to go in to increase the capital of the fund by DKK 3 billion. Priority will be given to marine research, medicine and health, information and communication technologies and research in the field of environmental/energy interception. But it is also important that our researchers have good working conditions and access to up-to-date scientific equipment. There has been a deficiency, and it now suggests correcting it, so I sincerely hope that we will agree that there will also have to be more money here, so that we can make a good research effort in our research environment. All parties will bet on the school. The Bondevik government started this work, and the Labour Party has followed up. This is probably also the background that we haven't heard any particular critical voices when it comes to the energy budget. Of course, a lot can be done with small money in different areas, but overall there is a huge effort on our education, and it is, as we have pointed out before, at the intersection of the Labour Party, the Centre and the SV we find the best Community solutions for our challenge system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1005	Since this is the first centenary debate in a new century, it is important to focus on what is most important to all of us, namely security. The Christian People's Party wants everyone to feel safe in Norway. That is why we must fight violence. Older people and sick people need to know that there is an institution or hospital space when cancer is weakened or disease is affected. Public security shall provide all economic security irrespective of previous income. The central government presented several health reforms, which need to be followed up. All of these were rooted in a respect for the individual human being and its human dignity. The Christian People's Party wants the right to life to be enshrined in the Constitution. At a time when active death aid has been updated and where the potential for research on aborted foetuses is high, it is important to highlight this fundamental security. When the government presented the evaluation of the ageing effort after two years, in the spring, no further efforts were promised even many municipalities documented major needs. The center strongly protested. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has now turned around and announced further growth. If 5000 places are enough, we only know when the deadline for applying expires on 30 June 2001. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that a reform be completed. If you stop one up halfway during the course, it won't be that promised you would give our older ones. They deserve the security that the reform provides for a worthy old age. The government is committed to modernising and renewing the public sector. The main proposal is that the State should take over the hospitals. I recommend a thorough assessment here as well. Because does anyone think that a change of ownership leads to more health professionals, and that the health cows and waiting lists disappear? Hospital problems are more complex. It is not just a matter of ownership, but above all predictability, framework conditions and organisation. The Christian People's Party is committed to organising and streamlining hospitals so that there is more time for patient contact and patient treatment. We have to have the right person in the right place at all times. There is a great pressure on hospitals because more suffering can be cured than before. Expectations are increasing proportionally. Several patients get older and often have a complex disease image. By investing more in primary health services, this pressure can be mitigated. The Christian People's Party believes that permanent reform will be a good tool in such a context. And above all, we must prevent. Here we all have our own responsibility, not least in the case of smoke. In Norway, more than twice as many people die of tobacco as it does of AIDS, drugs, murders, car accidents, fires, suicides and alcohol combined. Or, in another way, a patient dies almost every hour every day of the whole year in Norway because of tobacco. The government wants to reduce the taxes on alcohol in the interests of border trade. The Christian People's Party cannot support such a proposal unless, at the same time, measures are promoted to reduce consumption. Nor does the proposal for cheaper meat promote public health. The Christian People's Party wants a turn against people eating more fruit and vegetables. And they have to feel safe that food does not contain harmful substances. Several speakers have mentioned the government's lack of environmental profile in the debate. The environmental aspect is important for our health. It's going to be a mistake when the gas price goes down and the collective price goes up. Driving more provides lower air quality and less safety for our schoolchildren. Allergy can be caused by suspended particulates from the cars. It's hard to understand that you're going to put a stop to the offer, even the whole route, like the Nelug Railway, between Arendal and Nelug, is at risk. Train is the mode of transport which contaminates the least. Let's take care of the possibilities we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1033	I think the throne debate these two days have been better than I can remember for a long time. So I'm not going to say anything about whether it says more about previous debates than about this, but I think it has been good because the distinctions in Norwegian policy have come more clearly than for a long time. On the one hand, there are those who want us to bet on giving more to the individual's own consumption, no matter how much one already had. Yeah, it looks like someone's following the principle that the more you have, the more you're going to get. On the other hand, we stand who want to focus more on schemes that are important to people and that we want to have in common, like school and health care. On one side is the Advance Party and on the other side is the Right. On the other side is the Workers' Party, SV and partly the Centre Parties. The debate has shown that we all want to give people the opportunity to live a good life. It is striking that the closer we come to a choice, the more the other side appeals to the individual’s private wallet. We have so much oil money, we're so rich, we have to spend more, says Carl Ivar Hagen. Yes, we're rich, and yes, we're going to spend more money than ever before. But it's not like most of us need more money in our private wallet to get a better life. There's even greater stakes on our common stuff that will make everyday life better for most people. Just because we're rich, the municipalities are going to get more money than ever before, so they can clean up school buildings that need it, and don't have curtains that are older than the principal. Just because we're rich, we want to spend even more money in hospitals, in psychiatry, on cancer treatment. Just because we're rich, we're going to start building kindergartens again. If everyone is to have the opportunity to use an offered nursery, the payment for it must be reduced, the community must pay a larger part of the bill. There is something wrong when there are parents with small children who would like to work, but cannot afford it. Just because we're rich, the police have more resources, more people, more new cars, more new computer equipment than ever before, and there's even more commitment to what we have in common, which is fundamental to getting a better life. But as others have pointed out in this debate, a few of us also need more money for their own use. This applies, for example: families with children who experience it as a tough economic boost with school trips, camp school stays and birthdays. These are minimum pensioners, who after a long life can't afford anything extra, and they're people who experience housing spending swallowing about all income. These need more in their own wallet. But they're also more than many other addicts to our common good. We have few unemployed today, fortunately, but we often find the unemployed among those who have too little in their own wallet. Many of them need further education. That's why we've made it a right to higher education and further education, and it's a common good Workers' Party will do even better. Housing is a private matter, but if you can afford one, you have to be a common issue. Not everyone can or will own, therefore the Workers' Party will build several dwellings for rental, so that prices are not pushed up as much as they are today. Those who own a dwelling are dependent on a low interest rate. If we encourage those who have it well already to use a lot more for their own consumption, interest will increase. It's not just economic desktop theory that says, it's something we've been shown in practice a few years ago, and it was an expensive experience for a lot of people. Now we shouldn't let any more break our backs again. It takes time to build our common good that gives us the opportunity for a good life. The bet on the goods is needed all the time for them to last, and they must be further developed, so that each crown placed in them is used in the best possible way. Building them up is a laborious work the Labour Party has always been behind. It is not as has been said in this debate from the right, that you can only pinch your fingers, spend oil money, give more to everyone, give more to private consumption and at the same time expand the common good: health, education, housing and kindergartens. It would have been very pleasant to be a politician if it had been like that. But it's unfortunately an impossibility, and it's a deception to claim something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1059	There's one thing that's upset me more than anyone in the past, and that's the discovery of sexual mutilation for girls and young women. Cropping is not culture, it's torture. It's my experience as a midwife from Norway and Africa. Most of us know that some women in Norway are circumcised. What we didn't know was that North African children and young women are mutilated. But one is aware of this, namely the big-time representative Siv Jensen of the Progress Party. In the program 'Open Post' she said that she knew about this torture and these abuses. But what did she do to stop it? Nothing, except to be upset on TV. It's alarming. And I want to ask what Carl I. Hagen, who is concerned about law and order, thinks about big business representatives who know about crimes and criminal offences, but who don't report them to the police. The detection of female cross-sections requires concrete action. And I refer you to the suggestion that Ågot Valle has made on behalf of, among other things. Right about an action plan on female genital mutilation. So to the problems of health care and care for the elderly, which are calling for reforms. When the Stoltenberg government took over, the renewal and modernisation of the public sector was presented as a major concern. The new Minister of Health, Tønne, provided a refreshing innovation in the organisation of the healthcare system. But it's not enough to think new, you have to act too. For what do we see in the census and in the budget? Well, necessary reforms have been put on a waiting list with 270,000 patients. They're waiting for the National Labour Party meeting. Yes, it is so bad that several municipalities, many of them run by the Workers' Party, find themselves having to take out private health insurance for their residents for treatment in private hospitals or abroad. It is not exactly an expression of confidence that the Workers’ Party and the Government have the ability to take the necessary steps to provide the necessary security of treatment. It is not sustainable for operating rooms to be available most of the day and for doctors and nurses not to be able to use their capacity due to poor organisation and a system that does not reward efforts and efficient use of equipment. The need for reform is enormous, and for many patients it is urgent. The right will have strong health care improvements by providing more resources, by improving the organisation and funding of hospitals to treat more patients. Modernisation is essential to provide security for individuals. The public shall be responsible for financing basic and priority healthcare. However, even if the public is to be responsible for funding, this does not mean that the public must necessarily be responsible for all the production of services. Privates must also be allowed to compete with the public to give patients the best offer. The right has been fighting for years for the state to assume responsibility for hospitals. Patients are best served that responsibility be placed in the hands of collapse and government, and that we let go of the unworthy blackmail between the county and the state. At the same time as political responsibility is brought together at one level, hospitals must be given an extensive freedom to operate professionally without political and bureaucratic overarching. They must be able to take operational and investment decisions freely in order to ensure more treatment. Freer hospitals provide better hospitals, better treatment and better resource utilisation. When the political priorities for whom treatment is to be given have been achieved, when a functional distribution has been made between hospitals, when the quality of the services is ensured and public funding is in place, it is less important in the Right’s view who owns and operates the hospitals. The most important thing is that patients receive treatment when they need it. If we do not carry out the necessary reforms in the healthcare system, I fear a two-part division of the healthcare system, where those who can afford to pay for private health services in Norway or abroad do so. There is a danger of the public offer and the general principles of health policy because the public is unable to cope with competition. The right-hand objective is a highly publicly funded health service. It is no longer a question of whether we want competition and more private actors in health care. The competition's there. Competition provides more well-being and provides more patients with treatment because we get better use of resources to ensure better quality. We're getting rid of resources for even more patient treatment. The same applies to care for the elderly and rehabilitation. It is not, as some claim, immoral and unethical with competition in the health sector or in the care of the elderly. Competition is just a tool for providing more and better services to the population. But what is immoral is not to use resources to the benefit of patients and the elderly who need treatment, care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1085	When the Workers' Party implements the promise and change in society, we believe that society as a whole should contribute to the community. We believe that when you have to lift a load, they also have the strongest backs to carry and take their share of the burden. We can't put all the burdens on the weakest in society. In the census and in the budget presented, the Labour Party government is betting on the common good. We strengthen the health system, we improve the school, and we give more money and greater freedom to the municipalities. At the same time, there is a historic boost in teacher pay. It's a signal and a concrete grip to raise the status of the school. We want to introduce free schoolbooks in high school, and there's more to research and education. At the same time, the Government proposes to increase assistance. Norway should, as a rich country, show solidarity with the countries and people who are not as lucky as we are. When we're betting on the common good and improving health care and school, it has a price. It has to be financed somehow. The Workers' Party has chosen to propose tax on dividends. Those who have the most have to contribute a little more than today. It's not doing this to be disgusting, but we actually think that we can understand that grip when you know that that money is going to create a better school in Norway, and when you know that that money is going to strengthen the health care system in Norway. A limited business cycle tax is then proposed for industry. It is obvious that, in isolation, taxation is not an advantage for business, but there will always be another side to that account. At the same time, the Government is going in to set up an investment company with a capital of DKK 5 billion, which is just going to help strengthen Norwegian business. At the same time, research efforts are being increased by escalating the Research Fund from DKK 4 billion to DKK 7 billion – an increase of DKK 3 billion. Then, after the government took over six months ago, it increased the fund by NOK 4 billion. The dividends from this fund go, for example: to research on such things as marine resources and seafood, which could provide more new businesses in the future and safer jobs. The research effort in the budget is increasing by DKK 700 million. A support scheme for enterprises cooperating with higher education institutions and universities to conduct research is in place, where they can receive reimbursement of 25-30 pst. of the costs they have, precisely to strengthen the ability of business to develop new products and to develop themselves further. There will be value creation programmes both in fish and in agriculture. All these are measures to strengthen and improve Norwegian business, and I think the most important thing we can do for our business is to enable it to meet the challenges ahead, to participate in development and to take the lead in the future. Finally, I think, with all due respect, that the beginning of today's debate was somewhat ridiculous when the two right parties, the Right and the Advance Party, in the line change after the Prime Minister, had as one main point whether a footnote is deliberately mispositioned in the budget, and the second main point whether or not to include money for the school leisure system in the framework of the municipalities or not. The leaders of the respective parties may have had only a bad day, but I'm actually choosing to take it as a signal that the throne and the budget that the Government has presented is good, and that it is well adapted to the challenges we have in the future. It has to be almost the most natural reason why you choose to hang around in that kind of thing, instead of discussing the big, important lines, and instead of discussing the big challenges that we have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1102	Initially, the Government states that ‘Norway is the society of opportunity’. But the government's policy does not seem to be influenced by this in terms of exploiting these opportunities. The government's policy is, for example, shaped. not by using the whole of Norway. One example of this is a lack of investment in the transport sector, where already organised infrastructure is becoming confused due, inter alia, to the lack of investment in transport. lack of maintenance and further development. Another example is bonding and administrative interventions that depress and incinerate District Norway, such as: the establishment of the Eastern Region and a predatory policy that makes industrial activities impossible and destroys well-being and the environment so that people see need to move. This migration flow will be a figure in the statistics on centralisation developments in Norway, resulting in increased pressures on our cities and agglomerations, with increased housing and living costs and increased environmental problems. This must be the opposite of developing potential societies. The communities of opportunity are to a large extent located in the individual community, whether urban or rural. But then we must not do it in such a way that the districts are snuffed out by relocation and closure, or that the population areas are snuffed out by too strong migration and large, increased social problems. Only a balanced development between city and country and a decentralised housing and industrial structure will allow us to develop the full potential of Norway. During the last few days, a survey has confirmed some of us for a long time: the best municipalities to live in are practically small municipalities in the district of Norway. So a lot of people claim that these municipalities are too expensive to operate. But when these municipalities represent the quality of life and life that people value highly, one might want to take inwards that such quality also has to cost something. In several contexts, we also see that these municipalities and their inhabitants are those that require at least from the community. In the Common Era, the Government says: ‘Step by step, well-being shall be enhanced’. By constantly tightening the economic environment of such municipalities and the activities in these areas, the opposite is true. The government says it will strengthen local democracy. But the opposite happens when, for example, the local economy is tightened up due to large-scale tasks and insufficient resource transfers are a reality from the state. The government goes on to say in the throne: ‘As many decisions as possible should be made where people live and work.’ And on the other hand, «The Community sector shall be given increased revenue and greater freedom to make local choices as required.» This is true, but is it followed up in practical policy? I mean, it doesn't. The signals from the Government to turn the country's hospital into state institutions are to go the opposite way of what they say in the throne. A state acquisition and administration of all hospitals means removing the decision-making authority of these from where ‘people live and work’ and increasing the field of civil servants. In the spring, in Stortinget, we gave the hospitals and their owners greater freedom of organisation and administration. This should now have been followed up with the allocation of sufficient resources so that the states could have ‘increased revenues and greater freedom to make local choices according to local needs’, as the Government says, but does not. The increase in the free income of the counties is 750 million. kr in the coming state budget. This is quickly eaten when the government points out that 300 million. kr should go to increased patient care. And when we saw in addition that the county's propensity to acquire medical-technical equipment is 500 million. kr, which must be taken from free resources which they do not currently have, the increase in the free resources may be rapidly exhausted, and more than that, only on these solutions. In the Common Era, the Government says that it is ‘working for fair distribution and social cohesion’. Unfortunately, reality is different. In line with the previous year’s government budget, and unfortunately what was presented last year, increases in the proportion of excesses in health and care services have been proposed. It seems to have developed a purely automatic approach to such excesses, and the main problem is that many of them have the lowest level of income in society. When we also know that this low level of existence, which is usually based on social security benefits, should also cover e.g. increased electricity charges, increased public transport prices, increased interest rates and the general increase in prices lead to a further increase in the gap between the poorest and the richest. In the examination of the defrosting message, we largely agreed that this development had to be stopped. Therefore, it is extra disappointing that the government of Stoltenberg now only continues this self-promotion increase. The government calculates that this means about 250 million. kr i plus the 2001 government budget. I'll ask if it's necessary in today's economic situation to calculate such a plus. There are several things that should have been taken up. However, time does not allow that, but we will come back to several of these things, including. partial participation II, in the context of the financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1144	A wise man has once said that culture is the whole of all kinds of art, love and thought that over the years has allowed humans to be smaller slaves. I understand the French author Malraux that culture is crucial to human quality of life and competence. Through culture, we create identity and awareness of who we are and what we come from. Through art experiences and cultural activities, we create a tool that helps us to interpret the world around us and put the experiences of daily life in perspective. Culture also fills an important need to create human-to-human-to-human-to-human-to-human-to-human relations. I am therefore very pleased that the government of Stoltenberg will equip Culture-Norway for the year 2005. The government is adding up to a bet on a wide front. It is proposed, inter alia: increased commitment to the dissemination of art and culture to children and young people, the so-called cultural backpack. With this proposal it is proposed that all children in Norwegian school should experience living culture. This initiative will take place in close cooperation with institutions and professional bodies in the field of culture. The aim is for all children to have the opportunity to develop positive attitudes to all kinds of cultural expressions – including music, visual arts, dance or theatre. After a few years of cut-off in the press support, the government’s proposal to the government budget marks a changed policy in this field. Here it is proposed to increase the support for the press, showing that newspapers are considered to be a central cultural carrier in Norwegian society. Press support is an important tool for maintaining the large flora of Norwegian newspapers. However, the most important measure for the newspapers is that they will still be exempt from VAT. I would also like to add in this context that the subsidy to the Sami newspapers is increased by 25 pst, from 8 to 10 million. kr. It is an important contribution to maintaining Sami culture and language. Another important bet to which it is added is to link all public libraries to broadband. With this effort, the function of public libraries as information bases in local communities will be further strengthened. It is also proposed to take new action in the field of film. The total aid to the film sector is increased by nearly 60 million. NOK 190 million in total. kr. It is proposed to pool all government grants aimed at film production into a single fund, Norwegian Film Fund. It is also proposed that Norwegian Film AS be divided. The film studio shall continue to operate as its own company and the state ownership of the production company shall be liquidated. It is also proposed to establish a new State competence and development centre for the film environment, Norwegian film development. Both the Norwegian film fund and Norwegian film development are planned to be located in the Filmparken at Jar. Here the dynamic centre for Norwegian film production should still be. These measures will facilitate the prioritisation and control of funds against those areas where the needs are greatest at all times. Provision is made for investment grants to be granted to the thousand-year-olds in Hedmark, Vestfold, Nord-Trøndelag, South-Trøndelag and Uppland. In addition, appropriations for national cultural buildings, such as the Norwegian Theatre and the National Library, are proposed to mention something. Altogether, the Government’s proposals for the cultural budget provide the basis for the process of upgrading cultural Norway, a commitment towards the 100th anniversary of the Union’s resolution, in 2005, which is absolutely right and absolutely necessary. The government of Stoltenberg has started a great deal of work on the renewal of the public sector. For the Workers' Party, a strong and well-functioning public sector is the prerequisite that we, as a society, should be able to safeguard the well-being and realise our vision that everyone should have equal opportunities. A strong public sector does not necessarily mean that it must be large. We must always bear in mind that established schemes and institutions are only instruments and not objectives in themselves. The main objective of public sector innovation is to convert and streamline management so that it can function better in relation to the needs of the population and socio-economic requirements. More specifically, this means: providing public services to a greater extent according to the needs and wishes of users, i.e. user-oriented provision of more and better public-funded services, inter alia. by transferring resources from administration and control to service provision to achieve more efficient resource use at all levels; it can be achieved, inter alia. by reducing central state detail management No one should believe that this is a simple process, rather the opposite. But it is necessary because every day we are made aware that the public is unable to provide the services we believe that the inhabitants of this country should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1180	The strong commitment to health that emerged from this government's declaration of accession and has since been repeated in various contexts by both Prime Minister and Minister of Health, and finally repeated in the census, cannot be found in the present draft state budget. If the figures remain as they are in the projection and there is no greater resources in the current year’s budget to cover deficits in several hospitals in 2000, the public hospitals in 2001 will have a much worse operating situation than has been the case in the current year. Unfortunately, I have to say that the promise from this government to make a strong commitment to the health care system is far from a bluff. Tasks I have obtained from 30 Norwegian hospitals show that the postponement of the acquisition of vital medical-technical equipment in 2000 amounts to 700 million. NOK and expected operating loss to a total of 600 million. NOK just for these 30 hospitals. Is it nice that no one will be director of Ullevål Hospital? Nor on the priority upgrading plans of the Storting, namely cancer care and psychiatry, where serious shortcomings have been identified in the current year, has any additional budgetary effort been made for the year 2000. When it is found that the maps and terrain do not match the plans adopted by Stortinget, it is in my opinion the department's duty to ensure that the plans are corrected and presented to the Stortinget for new decisions. This health minister, like everyone else before him, also has the same standard response when hospitals complain about the lack of resource access and the waiting lists for that reason are increasing: that there is not only a lack of resources creating these problems, but also, to the most extent, an inefficient organisation within hospitals. Of course, the last thing I agree with the Minister of Health, but then you get to do a little bit of both, add more resources to the hospitals, and at the same time make sure to reorganize the hospitals. Underfunding of hospitals cannot be organised away. I also think it will be extremely difficult to get a sensible internal organization in our hospitals as long as we have 19 different hospital owners to deal with. This can be done better and easier through a uniform state responsibility for hospital operations. Therefore, state acquisition of hospitals should come quickly. State-wide, uniform hospital operations have been programmed in the Progress Party programme from the very beginning of the party, and I am pleased that the Workers' Party will now also implement this health policy issue, which the Progress Party has been facing for a long time. This time, in the alternative health and social budget of the Progress Party, the party will strongly prioritise medical research, both basic research at our universities and clinical research at our hospitals. It is particularly important to increase research both at universities and in our hospitals in the context of the medical revolution expected in the coming years in terms of genetic and biotechnologies. In Scandinavian and Western European context, Norway is at the bottom of medical research. Sweden spends three times as much per year. the head of public research in medicine such as Norway, and Denmark uses it twice. The Progress Party also sees it as important that we, as key politicians and the clinical environments in our hospitals, get a more positive attitude towards research in cooperation with the pharmaceutical industry to attract exchange rates in clinical research to a far greater extent than is the case today. In this regard, I would like to quote from a talk by the Director of the Medical and Health Department of the Norwegian Research Council recently stated: «Let me make a statement right away: the industry-dependent research is good! It is consistently above high technical standards, and it brings with it a great deal of good health care. In fact, clinical research would hardly be conducted on a particular scale in Norway without the contribution of industry.’ Lack of funding for research has also depleted the research communities in Norway, so that we currently have 50 available medical professorates in research at Norwegian universities. This is quite alarming and worrying to my mind, and something should be done about this as quickly as possible. The Progress Party will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1204	Throughout the postwar period, there has been a particularly close relationship between Norway and Yugoslavia. Several Norwegian municipalities established partnerships with Yugoslav municipalities, and the Norwegian Yugoslav Association was established. The state of war in the 1990s led to a total or partial breakup of most of the links. For us who, through friendships, were happy in both the country, the people and the culture, recent events are especially joyous. Norwegian Yugoslav relations have always been in contact with individuals who today see with great hopes for the future. I am particularly pleased and proud of the offensive attitude of Foreign Minister Thorbjørn Jagland. Norway’s leading role in helping and supporting the newly elected President is overarching. At all events, in my view, it may be crucial for development that European countries are aware of their visitation times. The democratic forces must have all the support we can give them. It's an illusion to think that the backwards cancers have given up. They're still there and will do their job to slow down development. Taking a passive and almost reprehensible attitude, as the Fridtjof Frank Gundersen of the Progress Party seemed to want, would be an indirect support for reaction. If democracy is to have some chance, most people have to see concrete results of what has happened, and we can help with that. Expectations are high, and if they can't be met within a reasonable time, we can risk setbacks. In this light, it is also very important that sanctions against the country be lifted. I find reason to remember that Serbia is struggling with major material problems as a result of the bombing, and that the country has to deal with nearly 1 million refugees. The Norwegian Yugoslav connection has received a request to assist in organising training provision on democratic construction. Through the contact network of the association, it can undoubtedly play a certain role, which has been set up in cooperation with the Norwegian authorities. I would like to strongly ask all Norwegian municipalities, associations and individuals to care, possibly to resume, the contact with Serbia in the time to come. In the last throne debate I'm taking part in, I'm going to bring forward a relationship on our home track that should occupy the entire political environment. This is about the growing-up conditions for our children. The initiative at the school and the preparation of a separate survey report show that the government is taking the children’s situation seriously. It is my hope that the treatment in Stortinget should not be influenced by party politics and prestige, but that we will have a cooperation on what will be the very foundation of a good society: an equivalent and well-growth environment for all children – I stress all children. As far as school is concerned, I would like to stress that it is not just about teacher's wages, although it is important enough. It's just as much about creating a school where the necessary adult contact for the individual student is present at all times. I'm going to say that we can already see in kindergarten which children might become a problem both for themselves and for society. Through adult contact, these children can be included in the positive environment from the start and prevented from sliding more and more across the sidebar. It's just questions of putting in enough human resources. That it will be the best prevention against drug abuse, violence and crime is also beyond doubt, and costs will be borne by society in the future. Today there is not enough money to prevent it, while we have to pay for the damage. This way of investing in school will also contribute to a better working environment and thus strengthen the recruitment of new teachers. Both the census and the budget show the willingness to take new political action for a better distribution. It is the responsibility of both my own party and the centre parties to ensure the majority of these acts. It would be an accident if the outcome of the budgetary procedure were to give decisive influence to the Party threatening the welfare state. With the tasks to be solved today, the public sector needs to be renewed, but it is also necessary to redistribute resources from private consumption to the public. Otherwise, I'm afraid we're going to have a society that, in essential areas, breaks with the similarity that, after all, has shaped Norway to this day. Developments have also led to over 70 000 children living below the poverty line in Norway today. We can't be aware of that. In his sermon during the service in Oslo Cathedral at the opening of the Storting, Bishop Stålsett pointed to this relationship, and he said it this way: The children are waiting for the language of the heart in politics. With those words, he challenged everyone in the political arena. Perhaps we have too easily to distort compassion and empathy in the situation of others in our political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1231	Yesterday, Norway was elected to the UN Security Council. In the Christian People's Party we are pleased about that, and I would like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Service on a well-worked job. The place in the Security Council will hopefully be vitalising Norwegian foreign policy, and we need a new debate on Norwegian UN policy. The UN faces several challenges. Firstly, there is an important debate on the financing of the UN work and the scale of contributions between the UN Member States, where it is necessary to make important countries show greater flexibility in their positions. Another challenge is how the UN can become a more credible contributor to peace operations. The autumn's debate on this related to the Brahimi report must not be allowed to slip into the sand – it will harm the UN. The third major debate is related to development and trade, where the UN must have a more active role in relation to the international financial institutions. It is good that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has announced a statement on the Norwegian UN policy in Stortinget. In the Common Era, the Government announces that it will strengthen its research efforts. Research, together with a good school system, has a central role in the modern knowledge economy. Here the Christian People's Party and the Government agree. But where's the bet? The majority decided in winter to ask for an obliging escalation plan for Norwegian research to bring us up to the average OECD level in five years. Such a stepping-up plan did not come into the revised national budget in spring, nor can I find it in the draft government budget. What the government is doing here is giving with one hand and taking with the other. The appropriations for the Research Fund are increasing, while basic research is getting tighter conditions through cuts at universities and colleges. Nutritional research is getting more money, but VAT on research services almost eats it up. And the Hervik committee's proposal to stimulate business to increase R & D activity is not followed up. The worrying thing is not that this government gives and takes, and that it goes into zero. The concern is that the Government does not have the ability to present a stepping-up plan as decided by the Storting. This makes it difficult to attach trust to what the government says in the throne speech, and I have not mentioned the promises made by the Workers' Party's opposition time in winter. The knowledge economy presupposes an active business in cooperation with the knowledge institutions. But the knowledge economy also demands greater ethical awareness and values in the exercise of leadership and resource management. It has been shown not least in the last few weeks about Norwegian business. That's why it becomes so important that the school has an active circulation of value, and that we have a public ethics debate. The Norwegian Church should play an active part in that debate. The Christian People's Party will improve the working conditions of the Norwegian Church. It is important to insist that the Norwegian Church is a religion that must be respected. It is unfortunate that the Government rewrites the Church's own objectives, because in this way the role and task of the Church are renamed. And it's suspicious because it shows a church political commitment that will govern the Norwegian Church. The Christian People's Party will also give the Norwegian Church greater freedom and responsibility. That is why we have proposed a constitution that the Church itself should appoint its bishops, and this can happen without us suspending the church system. The Christian People's Party wants to promote an open people's church, so we need to increase the focus on baptismal education and provide the necessary resources for this. The Church needs increased human and financial resources. The government gives a poor signal when it reduces the number of places of study in the diaconia and reduces the appropriations allocated to the local church. The government has referred to church policy in the Common Era, but it is later in the fall the practical design will be shown. Unfortunately, the signals so far are not an invitation to cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1247	Globalisation and rapid technological development are in the process of significantly changing social and economic developments. Throughout the industrial era, the Norwegian economy has been more commodity and energy-based than the economy of many other comparable countries. In the future, it is obvious that competence at all levels of business will be the most important factor in the competitiveness of a country. Globalisation is largely driven by information and communication technologies. This technology will significantly change the way businesses are organised and how contacts with other companies and their cooperation work. ICT is therefore both a kind of industry in itself and a means of streamlining its own business and having access to its partners and customers 24 hours a day. Accessing a communications network with sufficient capacity and at a fair price across the country can be crucial for the future of a business. The strengthening of broadband deployment and broadband access by the government is therefore of major importance. Broadband access will undoubtedly come first in the densest populated parts of the country. A vigilance around this development is necessary to allow access to the broadband network for all parts of Norway. It is not possible for companies to lose competitiveness because of geographical location because of a lack of broadband access and, at least, not fast enough. Competence and access to information and communication technologies will be crucial both for the well-being of an enterprise's internal operations and how its products can become competitive in an increasingly tougher international competition. Also for the products that an enterprise will supply are and will be the ideas development, innovation and competences. Knowledge is put into products that will be essential to win competition with other similar products. In this knowledge a good and functional design will also become more and more prominent. Therefore, it is important that the Government in its throne place great emphasis on research and development. Research efforts are to be stepped up and the aim is for Norway to rise to the OECD level over a five-year period. Many would probably have wanted this target to have been reached too far, and believe that it is urgent to get up to this level. Furthermore, mathematical calculations and comparisons can help to detect this objective. However, the most important thing for the Workers' Party is that a binding objective is set. This will provide a predictable policy in relation to appropriations, and those in need of support know that the research and development appropriations will increase. If the goal is achieved before the five-year period is over, no one is going to cry over it. Economically strong enterprises rely to a small extent on public funds to carry out research. These have their own research and development departments, precisely because they have seen early on that there is no way out. It is enough to refer to Statoil in this context, which has researched on a large scale and has achieved many good and partly spectacular results. In aquaculture, much research is also carried out, funded by the industry. The increasing investment in research will therefore provide less resource-intensive enterprises with better opportunities for researching new products or improvements to existing products, thus contributing to the necessary further development of individual enterprises. The proposal to set up an investment company with DKK 5 billion in capital base, where both the State and the private enterprises contribute, will also contribute to the development of existing dynamic business environments and necessary restructuring. The company shall have the task of offering capital to both small and large enterprises, on or off the stock exchange, at home and out. This, in turn, helps to give business opportunities for research, conversion, the development of new products and the further development of their enterprises at a stage where just research and development are necessary to survive. Looking at one of the measures I have mentioned here, in context, the increasing investment in development and innovation will be significant for the business community in Norway. When we also take into account that agriculture will start a five-year value creation programme, with 100 million. kr each year, there is reason to believe that agriculture as a whole will be able to deliver several processed products which can add value to the producer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1262	According to the census, the objective of rural and regional policy is to develop robust regions, ensure equivalent living conditions and good access to public services in all parts of the country. On Monday, the Health and Social Ministry presented the annual ranking of the living conditions in Kommune-Norway. 11 of the 12 municipalities with the worst living conditions in the country are located in North Norway. Year-on-year problems increase with the size of municipalities, and the living conditions are the worst in Northern Norway. Year-on-year goals – social assistance, violence, disability, recruitment, unemployment, transition and mortality – clearly tell of the challenges facing municipalities, which are the worst on the ranking. Small municipalities in the West are the best. If equivalent living conditions are to become a credible objective, hardly any municipal consolidation and centralisation to large robust regions is the answer to the needs of the population of District Norway. Last year, the Rescue Company raised 166 people at sea. In yesterday's Daily we met the young fisherman Kai Espen Hersdal from Tysvær in Rogaland who was rescued from herring fishing on Westfjord when «Borgøygutt» went down outside Bodø. He says, ‘Norway has a coastline of 2600 kilometres. It does not seem fair that what is literally vital for fishermen and seafarers is to become a balancing item’. The people along the Norwegian coast do not understand the logic of cutting the aid to the Rescue Company by $9 million. kr. Is this an expression of the Workers' Party's investment in Coastal and District Norway where the future value creation will take place? The size has clearly said that safety at sea must be ensured. The government's draft budget means that the drawing up of electronic charts must be postponed for 10 years until 2015, despite the fact that we know that Russian transport of oil and gas along the coast of North Norway poses a formidable environmental threat. New aquaculture concessions shall be auctioned away with the likely result that capital-intensive interests outside the country and the district will be controlled over local farming areas. Will lack of local ownership give the local community greater freedom to make local choices according to local needs? According to the census, the State budget should contribute to a balanced development in the Norwegian economy. When the living conditions index, where, among other things, unemployment is one of the elements measured, shows that there is the worst living conditions in North Norway, the Government uses the budget to introduce the employer’s fee, or the short-term cost as it is called, in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, where we did not have an employer’s fee in the past. Is this creating equivalent living conditions? ‘The right education system must be strengthened’, it is called in the Common Era. At the same time, a cut to the University of Tromsø of 32 million is proposed. kr from 2000 to 2001. The Student Board of Grethe Karlsen states: «We students can't sit quietly and watch the only university in North Norway go down. Is it going to be like this that Nordic youth has to go to Oslo to get an education?’ The University of Tromsø is still not fully developed. Is it good build-up of skills to build up long before the national community has been given the opportunity to resume its education and training career? District Norway and the business community there, whether it be fisheries and farming, agriculture or tourism, need infrastructure, not least in the form of roads. The people of Lofoten, Northern Nordland and South Troms feel cheated and deceived when no appropriations have been proposed for the Lofast link. It is not acceptable for all heavy investments to take place in the central eastern region, while District Norway is fed with smulters. Finally, let me point to two wonderful district initiatives or any lack of such ones. In the case of local economic development, the grant item of outlying municipalities is reduced by a sharp decrease in the population. Doesn't the Workers' Party want to slow down and preferably stop the relocation from the districts? What is the purpose of reducing the allocation to municipal food funds by 35 million? Do you really want to delete this item? The budgets for national programmes and regional development measures are also reduced when disregarding the share capital of IT Fornebu. In District Norway we do not look at the share capital of IT Fornebu of 165 million. kr as a regional development measure. What we need is access to ICT services and broadband communications at the same price as the rest of the country. The Christian People's Party wants to use the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1302	The Judicial Committee has taken a number of steps in the fight against crime during this major period. The police have been given extended and more effective investigation methods and increased access to search for suspects to find any weapons. For some serious crimes, Stortinget has opened up the possibility of anonymous witnessing, both for the screening of the witnesses and for the truth to be brought to justice more easily. Strong efforts to combat reoccurrence crime are high on the agenda. This is necessary to protect the normal male and female. Furthermore, Stortinget has made it easier to withdraw profits when it is suspected that things have been acquired as a result of criminal activity. When changing and tightening the law on sexual offences, we have placed great emphasis on protecting women and children from sexual crimes. Among other things, the definition of rape is extended, and there is emphasis on criminal atrocities. I also think that, in relation to criminal atrocities, the Riksadvokat's play on major criminal measures for killing is right. Norwegian participation in the fight against organised international crime is of great importance. The fact that Schengen legislation is now adapted and within the framework of Norwegian law is very important in this context, as is the fact that Norway will have to establish a third country agreement with Europol as soon as possible. It must not be easier for criminals to cross borders than it is for the police to do the same. Crime must be combated and prevented by a wide range of instruments. Rapid and appropriate responses to crimes are important. Difficult living conditions for individual and social conditions in general do not exempt from liability. The community must show that criminal acts are not tolerated and that they are involved must be held responsible for their actions. At the same time, we must prevent criminal behaviour before it takes place. We must prevent the undesirable development of crime. The Labour Party sees it as very important to prevent children and young people from entering a criminal racetrack. In this context, it is essential to facilitate secure growth conditions, equal opportunities for education and good social networks. An important part of the prevention work will be work and action against ethnic discrimination. Weak membership and stigmatisation provide ground for counter-reactions in the form of repeat crime. Minors who commit serious crime are an increasing problem. Finding appropriate responses to children and young people aged 12 to 18 has often been a problem. The Labour Party believes that the criminal lavallier, who is 15 years old, should not be lowered. But children under the age of 15 who commit crime will also be met with reactions from society. The Labour Party will develop an overall strategy for responses to offences committed by children and young people aged 12 to 18. Reactions must be rapid, must be proportionate to the offence committed and must be adapted to the individual's age and situation. Both police and child protection must be able to clarify their roles and opportunities for action against children who commit crime. At the same time, issues involving young offenders need to be prioritised in police and prosecution authorities, courts and criminal justice, so that society's response is speeded up. The Labour Party believes that special attention needs to be paid to gangs with young people who commit crime. The effort to break up the gangs and get individual members into other environments is essential for combating recriminalism. Active prevention efforts, clear demarcation and effective cooperation between police, child protection and other local agencies are crucial instruments in the work of these young people. In order to prevent the recruitment of young people, it is also important to work hard on the offences of the young. Societies must show that crime is unacceptable and that crime does not pay off. Then we can't stand still and see that young men with little or no income run around in cars for hundreds of thousands of dollars, but use the opportunities we have in criminal law, among other things. the rules on the withdrawal of the profit or loss, which I previously had in mind. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that justice policies safeguard the security of individuals and ensure the Community's ability to combat crime. Legal certainty and security are fundamental prerequisites for the welfare society. The Labour Party will work for a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1332	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1335	This morning, women from almost all the parties joined forces to propose an action plan on girls' crossovers. When we do that -- it's not often that women across party boundaries agree to make a joint proposal -- it's a signal that this is such an important matter that is upsetting us so far into the roots of our hearts that we'll agree to say, "Yes, the Great Britain is going to do its part of the job to bring these criminal acts to life." We should be clear from the fact that all girls, regardless of their origin, are entitled to the same protection and to enjoy the same human rights as any other citizen in this country. This is about our kids. At the same time, we won't be involved in making this issue a tool to increase xenophobia and racism in this country. The Prime Minister said earlier today that the fight against circumcision represents a new chapter in women's liberation. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has perceived this important point, for this is about women's liberation. For me, this is a women's fight. It's a fight against a rough form of sexualized violence. There is a fight against patriarchal structures that will control women's health and women's sexuality. We find these structures to varying degrees, but here we're talking about very strong patriarchal structures. That's why I'm very happy that a lot of men will be with us in that fight. When we want an action plan, it is important that we come up with measures that help, and that this work continues even when the lights from the media go out. We believe that making visible the work done in the quiet of individuals and organisations in the environments to which this relates is important. Because it's a fact that many, especially women, have been working on doing something about this in these environments. We need to cooperate with these. Women and men in these environments need to get the strength needed to do the job, because this is where the most important job needs to be done, with the help of us and in more cooperation with the big community. I believe that the information on that circumcision, or sexual mutilation, is prohibited by law, must be intensified. Of course, prevention needs to be strengthened, primarily in health services and at school, and especially in health centres, where everyone comes with their children. Everyone needs to be trained to do the right dialogue. Help must also be given to women who have been circumcised, for these are mothers of girls who are under pressure to be circumcised. When it comes to making international work visible, many people are doing their job. It's also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1346	When the Stortinget in spring – it was before the government change – dealt with the research report, the Workers' Party, together with Right and SV, was the strongest driver to raise the level of ambition. At that time, the Labour Party was very impatient when it came to following up the Hervik Committee with proposals to strengthen private funded research in Norway. It was hoped that the Bondevik Government would be required to make that follow-up already in the proposal for a revised national budget. What's happened? In the Stoltenberg Government’s proposal, there is a proposal to create a grant scheme from which companies can apply for support. At the same time, VAT is applied to research services, so it goes into zero. In addition, new taxes and taxes will be passed on to companies, which will make it possible for companies to be tempted to invest in research and development rather than pumped into their current operations. With the proposal presented by the Government, it can be concluded, until certain certainty, that research efforts from private businesses will not go up in the coming years, it will go down. At the same time, there was agreement in the United Kingdom — once again with the Labour Party as one of the proponents — that the objective of achieving the average OECD level over the next five years should be underlined and that the Bondevik Government should be required to make an obligatory step-up plan in the revised national budget. Then the government itself was taken over. In the revised national budget, there was no escalation plan, at least some obligating escalation plan. A copy of the focus of the Bondevik government's research report was received plus the decision of the big business committee. The draft budget for the year refers back to the plan of escalation which was presented in the revised version and which is non-existent. It was also agreed to shift the centre of gravity to basic research with a greater share of research funding directly to universities. What happens then in the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg Government? You go in the opposite direction. University budgets are weakening more than any government has done in very, very many years. The reality is that the level of ambition of the government of Stoltenberg will mean that Norwegian research efforts will further slow down in 2001 in proportion to the average of OECD countries. In other words, in the four remaining years of the period, you have to have a rather dramatic escalation in order to achieve the goal. In conclusion, I believe that the government of Stoltenberg's research policy, and in particular its university policy, can use the expression in which the Prime Minister himself is particularly pleased: it is an outstandingly weak government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1357	It is incomprehensible that the centre parties have turned down gas power in Norway as one of their most important issues, and so important that the Bondevik government went off. Why should Norwegian gas not be used in Norway? The centre lots have no objections to selling North Sea gas to the continent without any cleaning requirements being imposed. So the gas should be used, but not in Norway. We just have to be a commodity exporter. The Labour Party's policy is that the North Sea gas should be able to be further processed in Norway, not just abroad. It is pure molar policy for Norway to import gas power or – even worse – coal power from the continent. We should be an exporter of both gas and electricity based on gas power. The gas should be used for industrial development — as planned in the North Trøndelag — and not exclusively abroad. The gas shall be sold, it shall be used and there shall be no more emissions if it is used in Norway instead of on the continent. When gas instead of coal is used to generate electricity, the actual emissions are reduced. The use of gas in Norway is not just an environmental issue but a matter of district development. In the debate on the throne, the Central Party has called for district policy from the Workers' Party, but in my view, the Centre Party, with its position on the gas power issue, has no credible district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1366	As the debate of these two days has clearly shown, the Right has a completely different industrial policy from that of the Workers' Party government. Instead of bringing big tax incentives and then redistributing some through a fund, politically directed, to equity development, the Right will facilitate taxes, we will provide opportunities for business to develop by investing more in the infrastructure on which business depends, on the road, on education and research. But in addition, the Right has said that we are forced to take the consequences of what others have pointed out in the debate, namely that we are in a precarious shortage of labour in many important areas. We will try to get Norwegian workers back into the labour market, and we have suggested several times to get more open rules, so that we can bring in more foreign labour. Among other things, we lack thousands when it comes to health professionals in our country, and they probably need to be obtained from far different countries than the EEA territory. Maybe we'll see this best when we get concrete things. In my municipality of Volda, we have recently had a case where two Filipino health workers are expelled from the country, even though they have available work from several hospitals both in More and Romesdal and in other states in the country. Then we see how meaningless it is when we lack several thousand health workers, that individuals for whom we have so much use are expelled. This has led to sharp responses in the community, which can be reasonable. And the sharpest reaction came from the local Progress Party, which reacted enormously in local-visible Moors with great appeals, where the Progress Party goes to «Fight FOR Immigration». I just want to quote a little bit of what the Progress Party in Volda says. They ‘react with disgust at the policy and the interpretation of the rules that may underlie UDI’s refusal’. The interviewer becomes 'irritating anger'. And on, "This isn't working. And something has to be done quickly, not to lose all confidence in central politics in this country, says a very sharp Frp politician." And then he finally says that they have ‘contacted their politicians on the Stortinget’ – that is. progress party group – ‘and will also make them react’. And then he comes with a heart attack at the end: it looks like it's the Right and the Advance Party that need to secure the opportunities to fill these health jobs with the staff we need to get a better health care. Whether the message has reached the Progress Party here on Stortinget, I'm not sure. It may be shown when the Right's proposal is to be dealt with later in the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1375	The languages of the throne and the debate on the throne are characterized by the fact that Norway is a rich country. It's in itself a challenge. In both a historical and a global perspective, we find many examples of rich countries in deep crises. It is because of conflicts or wars, lack of democracy, poor organization, or because of the fact that the prevailing ideologies do not give room to everyone and are based on wrong values. It shows that it's a very long way from wealth to a society that's good to live in. Modernising the welfare state is important. It is important to organise the public sector effectively. But is that all? To put it at the forefront: if the main objective of the welfare country is to ensure high-quality services for users, then we can reduce the entire supply of public health and care, because the market would quickly ensure high-quality services. But the welfare state is based on a much broader basis than that. For the basis of both health and care services, public social services and public education services is a moral idea. The objectives of fairness, community and equal rights to welfare services make the welfare country something far more than any service provider to maximise the quality of its users. After following the modernisation debate for some time, I am concerned that politicians can help undermine the values behind the welfare regimes by using a rhetoric around the welfare state as if it were any share company. Because it is an important point that the welfare state exists only as long as its basic values and the idea of solidarity are sufficiently strong in the population. In a thought-provoking article in The Daily of 28 September, Sissel Benneche Osvold makes the issue of improving the public sector primarily a matter of human dignity. It is a political challenge that the Christian People's Party will take seriously and not only adopt proper reforms for the efficient functioning of hospitals and hospitals, but also contribute to the development and strengthening of the value base of the welfare state. This should not least be a challenge for social democracy, which has made a key contribution to the building-up of current welfare systems. And I think it's interesting that Tom Thoresen's representative sees the need for value mobilization. And that's why the Christian People's Party is occupied with the welfare state, but we're also equally concerned with the whole welfare community, which includes voluntary organisations, family and important parts of civil society. Because neither the stock analysts nor the organization consultants decide how well we manage our wealth. It is political elections – anchored in healthy and good values.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1394	We can establish that Norway is the society of opportunity. But being a society full of opportunities does not help if these opportunities are not used. The government's position in the gas power case is the most obvious example of us not using the possibilities we have. Norway now has a unique opportunity to go ahead. We could use our opportunities, our resources, our knowledge and our experience to contribute positively to the world's environmental situation. We could say that Norway has contributed negatively for a long time. Over decades, we have released large amounts of destructive greenhouse gases. We now have the opportunity to take a power cap to develop CO2-free gas power plants. This would be a technological advance, which would certainly contribute to the reduction of total greenhouse gas emissions. But what happens? Well, it opens up to building entirely common, highly polluting gas power plants, which the majority hope will give lower total emissions. The reality is that these gas power plants will eliminate much of the initiative to develop more environmentally friendly technologies. If this is to use the opportunities in the societies of opportunity, if this is to take the lead in environmental policy, and if this is a modern and forward-looking policy, then it's time to think about it. This is turning back into the future. All the youth parties, except the Youth of the Advance Party, are opposed to the construction of polluting gas power plants. All environmental organisations are also opposed to building gas power plants. Is it because the youth parties do not understand what is forward-looking policy? Or is it because an overall environmental movement has not realized what is an environmentally friendly policy? Or could it be that both young people and environmentalists see that polluting gas power plants are neither a solution for the future nor an environmentally friendly measure? It's been a long time since the environmental pants of the Workers' Party went from green to gray. Even the government’s celebrations are now without visions of environmental policy. The Common Era did not contain any overall vision for the Government's environmental policy. It is, of course, the worst thing that the government is pursuing a practical policy that goes beyond the interests of the environment, but it is also bad if the environmental perspective disappears from the political parties. Then we have lost a significant perspective on future policy. We need a future-oriented environmental policy. We need a policy that addresses the real challenges. Environmental policy does not address the major challenges of cultural memories, outdoor life or predatory wildlife. These are of course important issues, but the major challenges are the climate challenge and the resource challenge. In these areas, unfortunately, the Government does not pursue a forward-looking policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1409	The travel news was discussed here in Stortinget in June this year. In my speech, I expressed the fact that tourism has too little attention and status — it is valid at all political levels. The government's proposal for VAT on travel services can be seen as an expression for this. Around the country, not least in my home country of Uppland, the tourism industry is one of the most important and accounts for an important part of the workplace. For many regions, a viable tourism industry can mean progress and optimism. Unfortunately, the ignition before travel is often rather weak. This includes, among other things: the reason that the industry is labour-intensive, and that in this way we are a high-cost country. Therefore, the centre party will not help to increase the burden by imposing VAT on travel services, as the Government wishes and goes in for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1419	I want to take a quote from the Prime Minister's speech, and it is, 'We have now taken the time up' when it relates to municipalities. Yes, the amount of its size would be sufficient for that. But here's a big one, because that's actually not how one experiences it in the field. The municipalities' own organisation, the Municipal Councils' Central Association, reports that the municipalities have now been charged with more expenditure in 2001 than the compensation. It relates to pension costs, it relates to a teacher’s debt settlement that is partly imputed and other circumstances. And when the next year's expenditure is greater than the income, it's no longer going to be school, health or care. In fact, the result is the opposite. The Municipal Committee in Stortinget experiences these days getting messages from different types of municipalities that tell what the budget for the next year – as it now looks – means in practice. The largest cities don't get income and expenditure to go together, and it's often the most difficult ones who experience cutbacks in their area. Growth municipalities have their special challenges. From the outlying municipalities, those which, by nature, are equipped in a special way with soil and fish and forests and water, and which, through new technologies, are intended to create new opportunities, and which could also in a special way relieve the largest press areas in our country, even from which reduced income is reported in relation to expenditure. This year's situation should be different because the central government initiated a so-called consultation arrangement with the Municipal Councils' Central Association, where a common understanding of the situation in the municipality of Norway was to be found. It's clear both when it comes to 11 billion dollars of debt last year, 10.6 billion this year, and 10 billion to next year. It should also be made clear that a person would like to be able to express his or her desire to invest more heavily in kindergartens, schools, health and care, and even in cultural and voluntary activities, which are so important in the municipality of Norway, but one must also provide more resources. It is sad to note that such fine measures as volunteer centres and other voluntary involvement experience cutbacks. The centre party is going to include this thread in the budget context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1428	Kristin Halvorsen has asked for the word out of luck to make suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1431	I would like to address the proposals No. 8 and 9, which are distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1436	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1439	Earlier today, Sonja Sjøli went from the Right to attack me because she thought I had erroneously created the impression that the Stortinget has known that there is a cross-section of women in Norway. But that's not true, because the Storting should have known and had every opportunity to be aware of this. If not, why did the Stortinge in 1995 adopt the law prohibiting sexual injury? Of course, it was because you wanted to make sure that Norwegian law kept this relationship. In 1996, an adviser from the Health Inspectorate on how health professionals should deal with these issues was notified. It was in 1996. But it is only after the TV2 disclosures that the Health Authority finds it too well to start doing something about that matter. It's four years – four years of casualty despite our having known. Last year, the Progress Party in the United Kingdom proposed that integration policy should be based on the fact that oppressive traditions and cultures should not be accepted in Norway. It voted against all the other parties in Stortinget, despite the fact that it is actually a significant contribution to ensuring that this type of relationship does not occur in Norway. Saying that we didn't know is directly wrong, because we did, but we haven't done anything about it, and we've allowed our health care and other organs not to follow up and give the women the necessary follow-up that they should actually get. In proposal No 12, which has been presented as a so-called cross-political promotion of women, is the female representatives of all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, who are proposers. But it's not because we wouldn't be there. It is because of the simple fact that we have never been asked to make a proposal in this regard. I think that's interesting. Why do you choose to omit the second largest party in the Biggest in such an important question? I'm standing here, and I'd like to be a co-sponsor. I'm going to support the proposal. But that's pretty special. I think it's even more special that you have to wait for such revelations and let a brave girl like Kadra go through all this before anything happens, before someone is willing to take it up, and before you're willing to promote a proposal for action plans. So this has been done before, without being willing to follow it up in the bodies that are going to be responsible for it. I think that's pretty serious, because you can't keep coming along and waiting for that kind of revelation before you do anything. We have been making proposals of this nature for 20 years – 20 years – and have experienced radiating and ridicule from a total staggering. We have pointed it out, and we have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1448	It seems to me that the NSB has driven off the track and parked on the sideline. Lookups in the media recently testify that the train is unguided and has stopped for red light. All that goes is the leaders. In return, they are well paid. This is a relationship that needs to be cleaned up. On 1 December 1996, the management company NSB was split into two independent organisational units. The traffic section was established by its own law as the company NSB BA, and the infrastructure was added to a new management body, the Railway Agency. The frame is in St.prp. No 2 for 1996-97. When the disasters, the accidents, the losses and the banal faults lie in the way of the NSB, it is obvious from the point of view of the Progress Party that management and the board have not done a good enough job. A central question for the Progress Party is whether it is only management’s qualifications that have led to the failure of the NSB or whether there are other factors. In our view, it is quite clear that this is about both the form of a company and the organization. In the view of the Progress Party, it is necessary to ensure that the NSB is managed and organised as an ordinary Norwegian company and not, as today, as an extension of the Ministry of Transport. It was a reasonable move to separate the NSB, which is now responsible for the operation of the train, and the Railway Agency, which has been given responsibility for the infrastructure. The Progress Party believes that the time now is ripe for the transformation of the NSB into a share company, which creates a clearer liability, faster decisions and distance from the ministry. It is not acceptable that the NSB has for several weeks prevented the public from being made aware of near-accident accidents and accidents by the recent failure to submit accident reports to the Railway Authority. It is also not acceptable that people remain on the platforms without an alternative to the train being established. The change of the train routes in the middle of a route period also creates problems for the passengers. The Progress Party will come back with a Document No. 8 proposals to convert NSB BA into a limited liability company.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1465	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. The size has come in the somewhat surprising situation that although it is announced the evening meeting, there are only five speakers on the list of speakers. This is a persuasion debate, and it often tends to be the final round of so-called parliamentary leaders at the end of a persuasion debate. So far, only one of the parliamentary leaders has signed up on the list of speakers, so the President has no indication whether or not it will be such a final round. The President is aware that it has been called to group meetings in most groups at 1 p.m. 16, and that many, because it is announced evening meeting, may have made other agreements. The President is therefore very much in doubt whether we should now allow the meeting to continue until the end, or whether we should cancel the meeting and set a new meeting at 0 p.m. 18, and she really needs the Greatness's advice on this. In principle, the President believes that when the evening meeting is scheduled, good reasons should be given for a morning meeting to continue beyond the break. That's the starting point, but this is up to the Storting to have opinions about. And, of course, the parliamentary leaders are addressing the President in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1474	For the Workers' Group, it is not very difficult to conclude the debate without taking a break and putting an evening meeting. We assume – as it looks on the list of speakers – that in any case it will not be a very long debate from now on. We can then accept that the meeting continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1479	Is there anyone who wants us to cancel the meeting now and set a new meeting at 0 p.m. Eighteen?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1482	I'm in deep doubt, too. Experience has sometimes shown that if someone has any views, there are a lot of others that draw. It has often been that we believe the debate is over, and then it lasts both an hour and a half longer. I think maybe it won't do it now, as I didn't get to keep my post before the President in good time before noon. 15 stopped it – uncertain for what reason. We have a group meeting at 0 p.m. 15.30 and has a relatively significant program because we figured, as I think most of the others, that we had to be here by noon anyway. 18 and keep going for another second. So for us there will be at least significant problems if there is a long debate, but we will not oppose that we are going on and on, if that is the mood of the other groups, like the Workers' Party. That means that many people have to put tapes on, but the post I had planned to keep before noon. 15, at least I'll have the opportunity to hold, even though it's now after noon. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1489	It's not the president's intention to oppose it, either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1493	I just want to report briefly from our side that if this meeting is not very extended, it would not represent any major problems. I would kind of prefer it, it might be nice to have a surprising announcement of an evening meeting also for once. So I want to take the chance that we'll extend the morning meeting, and try to tie me up so I can contribute to a relatively quick conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1498	Jan Petersen is nodding, too. Then the president thinks she's taking a vote on this matter. But the president will already signal that she is not convinced that we are done by noon. 15.30, just so you take that into account. The President will vote on the proposal to allow the morning sitting to continue beyond 1 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1510	Then it looks like there's a great atmosphere because we're going to continue the meeting. The next speaker is Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1515	At the end of the throne debate, I would like to express that I see it in a few areas has been very clarifying. First of all, when it comes to purely political constellations, many people say it's been a little boring, it's kind of not funny. In the old days there was the struggle between the socialist side and the non-socialist side, and then there was a bit of freshness in the debate, and different political directions emerged. In the current situation, in which all parties cooperate with all other parties in individual matters, and all parties are opponents of all other parties in individual matters, there will be no clear fronts, and then it is quite natural that the matter under discussion should be dealt with, to what extent there will be an exciting debate. The second thing I think is very clarifying, is Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's clear observation that in all the state budgets from 1986, minus the Syse government and minus 1997-98, it has been the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party – and the Left when they've been in the Storting – who have set the budgets. Then we also know where the main responsibility lies for the situation in health care, care for the elderly and the school. However, when you have listened to the speakers of the Labour Party in the debate, you would think it was the Progress Party that had run for the last 10-12 years, since you spend so much time making delusions about our policies and attacking the Progress Party instead of defending and explaining your own policy. I therefore think it is okay that the Prime Minister has reminded the Norwegian people that when he himself says that it is necessary to invest in health, the elderly and the school, it must be because it has not previously done the Workers' Party and the cooperation partners – and there I actually agree with the Prime Minister. That is why, in most of the financial years, the Progress Party has strengthened these sectors, and we have therefore made proposals in this debate that we can no longer allow responsibility for the most important thing that citizens are interested in – good services paid through the community – to be shared by the state, the municipality and the county community, which makes it possible to blame each other for all the shortcomings. Responsibility must be concentrated in one place for the most central tasks, so that responsibility cannot be transferred to another. That is why we have said that the governance, control and funding of health care, care for the elderly and the school and education systems should become a state task, and that is one of the reforms we are most disappointed that we unfortunately seem to be left alone. The others will still have someone to blame for their own shortcomings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1524	The Progress Party has a fundamental view that culture and cultural life should be free of political governance as far as possible. Culture must be based on volunteering and personal commitment, so that the individual, i.e. You and I, with our imagination and creativity, can create something new, if we want to. The State and the role of politicians in this process should be limited to maintaining the legal framework for individual choices. The Progress Party believes that political goal management of cultural life, as practised today, could lead to passivity and stagnation, and this is the opposite of what cultural life deserves. The Progress Party believes that culture is a very broad concept, with specific characteristics attached to each individual. What is perceived as a positive culture by one person can be perceived as a vulgarity by another. A round of a pub with a show night can be the maximum for someone, while others have to take a tour of the opera to experience their culture. Others once again have their concepts of what is good and right culture for them. Therefore, there must be a voluntary choice without the involvement of the public. The dividing lines in Norwegian culture do not refer to the individual perception of the concept of culture but to the culture supported by public funds and to the culture not covered by such public support schemes. The Progress Party believes that culture is something that is cultivated on a different basis in a society. Culture can be something completely personal, or something that is all-round. Culture must be popular, so that people's perception of culture will govern cultural policy and cultural development in the country. The economic framework and conditions are in control of our use of cultural services, and one must be allowed to claim that much of the so-called popular culture unfortunately has to be based on a lot of volunteering and hard work. Here, for example, Corps music, amateur theatre and sport are mentioned. That this spirit of virtue exists, Norwegian cultural life should be very much appreciated. Without this, enough communities would have been destroyed culturally. Just sports are very much at work, and the Progress Party believes that it is a very good use, and it is social, when so many people meet and do a job towards a common goal. The offer is made, inter alia: to young people, are very important in our time and can save society from resources later on. That's why it would have been a more appropriate use of public cultural resources to transfer these to where they get the most pleasure from them. The cost of the opera building is already before the first spa roof is taken, exceeded by a quarter of a billion dollars. Two, three, maybe four billion kroner, which this building will cost, would make cultural life flourish, not just in the summer, but throughout the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1539	The government was required to submit a proposal for a self-interest measure II, so that chroniclers and serious long-term illness and caregiving would be secured against very large costs associated with their health status. In the draft budget, which came the day after the census, the Government rejects the fact that it is possible to find such a system, and otherwise it is said very little about how it could be done in that case. It is difficult to understand, indeed unacceptable, that one cannot find a way to protect seriously ill and nurturing from unrealistically high self-expenses. It is very disappointing that the Government only in the throne, which then almost becomes a festivities, talks about solidarity and fair distribution, and that it does not have a more firm attitude – and action – about this with great expenditure due to sickness and disability. I would like to make a few other comments on the throne speech and on what has been said today. It has been argued that prevention work, not least by investing in children’s and young people’s organisations, should be prioritised by the Stoltenberg Government. It is not consistent with the fact that significant organisations, such as Norwegian 4-H gets a cut of over 20 pst. in the budget of the State. The same can be said for non-governmental organisations in the health and social sector. There is no increase in the amount of the grant, which now has to be divided into several candidate organisations, thus reducing the number of applicants. The debate today started with defence policy. I want to end my post with a little defence policy. This concerns the Eastern Region and the major investment there, with the large outlay given to the State and the Defence in this case. I think it must now be time that we saw this much clearer in the context of the new defence structure, and that we also see it clearer in the context of the defence economy. Pilot studies have only been carried out in the Gråfjell area and in the area designated as a possible field for the Eastern Region. It's important that we now take a new round before we spend more money. Among other things, the project management wants to enter into agreements on the change of husband when it comes to the reason next year, and I hope we can have a debate on this before that happens. It also shows that the cost calculations for this field are highly uncertain, and that this is about several billion dollars, which should perhaps be used in a completely different way if we are to have a sensible development of Norwegian defence in the future, and not rage over large natural areas, which this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1550	We can ask questions about what are the prerequisites of a legal state to settle criminal acts, and we can all quickly agree that they are witnesses. Now that we've got a settlement with the criminal act that lies within the body damage that is the intersection of women, it's because we've got a brave witness. We've heard imams talking to two tongues, and we're responding. Then none of us have to act like we're political imams. I think we should show the deep respect for the witnesses we have; that when they show it against their coming forward, we all respond. That is why we have also received a cross-political women's initiative in Stortinget, which I very much welcome. The fact that we have witnesses has made us work in recent years to protect and honor the witnesses. Combating interception is combating criminal activity. And to speak clearly and clearly about that we're all going to do. If there's anyone who knows this against assumption without saying from before, we're just going to take note of it, but for my part, I'm running my policy according to the following principles: Listen to the witnesses, because they know what it's about. Get out of here. Get out of here! Get out of here! Make it clear to all those who come to Norway that they must follow the rules of the game here, with rights and obligations. Fight all women's repressive structures. Do what you can to avoid knowledgeless imams, because it's as hopeless as knowledgeless priests.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1577	I'm not going to make any attempt to sum up the debate, I just want to say that I think it was aspects of Hagen's summary that were actually very good. The Labour Party, and I'd like to believe the other parties that have been involved and developed this community where it is today, take more than just responsibility for it. 25 years ago, when Hagen’s party was relatively new-born, Norway was very low on all statistics. Today, when it comes to living conditions assessments, we are about to the top, so we feel in no way ashamed of being responsible for development over many decades. Actually, I asked for the floor to give an explanation of vote. I would first like to refer to proposal No. 2, from the left, dealing with labour immigration. The right has previously presented a Document No. The 8-proposal for the Storting that I normally assume is going to be sent to the handling committee. The Working Party will strongly request the Left to submit proposal No. 2 to the committee, because we find it natural that it is handled together with this Document No. The 8th proposal to be discussed. That is the request we have to the Left regarding proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I would also like to make special mention of proposal No. 11 from the Christian People's Party, which is about to establish a knowledge base in the field of child abuse. The Labour Party Group thinks this is a proposal that has a lot of good and important intentions in it. It also affects important things that are being worked on. It is therefore a proposal that we would like to see submitted. There are specificities in the proposal as it now exists, which are difficult for the Storting to address. We have not had any treatment of this, so our request to the Christian People's Party is that proposal No. 11 is converted into a transmission proposal to the Government, having regard to the important intentions set out here. There is a proposal to which the Labour Party is a co-sponsor, proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox We are, of course, in favour of this. I recommend that the Working Party vote against the other proposals. It is largely either proposals that we disagree with, or proposals that go across something the Stortinget has adopted before. I point out that there are also proposals that deal directly with matters that are actually in the Storting; it concerns proposal No. 9, which deals with aspects of the transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1592	This will not be an explanation of vote, but a statement of vote. It was, sir. Lukewarm that made me take the word in the last round. Sir. Lukewarm once again tried to torpedo the Grand Duchy's decision on the Eastern Region in the context of the development of the Defence and with the background of what I may have expressed before today. I just want to stress that with the development that defence is facing, it is more necessary than ever to facilitate the practice and proper practice of the departments we have. The safety of crews depends not least on participation in international operations, but also on being able to exploit and use their equipment at home. I can't see any reason why the Storting should take inwards, sir. The idea of reversing the decision previously taken by the Storting is something that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1603	Since the parliamentary leader of the Advance Party finally turned the whip over the parties that have been involved in building this country in the near and distant past, I would also like to express on behalf of the Left that I definitely feel that we have nothing to be ashamed of in such a context. And I think history speaks for itself. It was the invitation of the representative of Solberg to make proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal, and this is natural in the context of the existence of a closely related proposal for consideration in the Committee. I would like to comply and propose that the proposal be submitted to the committee for consideration, and then come back to Stortinget later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1611	Ola D. Glötvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1614	I did not expect the representative Røsjorde to be the one who would first take inward what I said. But I hope that Røss soils can also agree that there is reason to look at some things that are hanging in jump here now, among other things. the defence structure, and not least the defence economy and what we're going to spend the money for the most sensible. We know that the defense has facilities in Inner Troms that they have used until today, and that they can still use in the field of shooting. We also know that if we want to, we can communicate and perhaps reach an agreement with Sweden on the use of shooting and practice fields, and in the context of international operations this must be possible. I also think that when we talk about buying services and goods abroad because it's not inflationary, it should now be interesting to see if we might have shooting and practice facilities in Sweden instead of spending as much money as this is going to go with, to destroy a large natural area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1623	This is primarily an explanation of our vote. We would recommend that our group vote against proposal No. 1, from SV, because we believe that the CO2 problem is not part of the state pollution control at all. It's not pollution, it's like a greenhouse gas, but it doesn't come under the concept of pollution. That is why we see no need to get such a professional assessment. What we would like to have, however, was a consideration from the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice about the legal access of the Government according to our law to convert a decision and a concession previously given by the department that, as the law is now, will give it. We had planned to vote against proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox It is now probably sent to the committee, so I don't have to explain it any more. But we are still opposed to the practical attempts now to open up free immigration coming from the Right and the Left. There is a little camouflage around these proposals, but in reality, in our view, it will mean free immigration. That's why we want to oppose it. We are voting in favour of our own proposals. We are voting in favour of proposal No. 7, from Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right. We would like to bring this matter before Stortinget. We shall vote against the motions. 8 and 9, from the Socialist Left Party. We know SV in terms of car charges and such, and will not in any way be placed in a booth with them, especially as this is designed, with road pricing in central strokes. We will also vote against proposal No. 9, as this, of course, as the representative Hill-Marta Solberg said, belongs to the national transport plan and is already being treated in the Stortinget. We shall vote against proposal No. 10, although it is interesting that SV also sees that there might be a need for something more state-owned. It's just a shame that we couldn't get the state to take over the responsibility and the directives for the education sector, so that we could really make the same offer to students all over the country, as is the case with our proposal. As regards proposal No: 11 – if there is a real vote on this – we will vote in favour. But we would like to stress that it is the word ‘explored’ that is the operational provision. Parts of the proposal, the end, may seem as if you take it for granted that anyone who claims that there has been a sexual assault is right. And now we have to learn from the many judicial orders that are gradually revealed, and don't take for granted that every time someone claims that something has happened, it is. But we think it might be interesting to look at a competence center, and especially if Kripos is in there, so that you can actually get some counter-representation against some clever professional environments that always assumes that a claim that there has been a sexual assault is correct. We have enough examples that it's not, so an expertise in this area will make sense. We shall, of course, vote in favour of proposal No. 12, and notes that all other parties in the Stortingen who talk about peace and deportability are doing what they can to stigmatise the Progress Party by not being invited to be co-sponsors. I think that perhaps the parliamentary leaders should think a little bit about the circumstances of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1646	It looks like the explanations of vote are coming now. It does well that some of the members of the Storting don't get these, but I'm also taking my contribution now, simply because I also have a question about one of the proposals. As far as their review is concerned, we will vote against all the proposals, with the exception of proposal No. 2. from the representative of Sponheim, whom I consider to be a statement of support for our Document No. Eight proposals presented at the beginning of yesterday's sitting. But, of course, we are voting in favour of proposal No. 7, which is our own, and for the proposals No. 11 and 12. The proposals we want to reject do not call for special comments, except for two. One is proposal No. 3. by the representative Hagen. It is well known that the Right wants the State to take responsibility for the hospitals. We have another way of placing state responsibility for hospitals rather than that of the Progress Party, but there would be no reason to vote against proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox But here we talk about health in general, including primary health services. This means that we cannot vote in favour of this proposal, but I would like to stress that we believe that the state should assume responsibility for the hospitals. So it was proposal No. 6, where the representative Hagen also asks for an integration message. I have to say, I think this is a somewhat strange proposal, given that Carl I. Hagen is already under consideration in Committee Document No. 8:34. As far as I can see, the Committee is about to give its opinion on this, so that the current representative, Mr Hagen, is to ask for another communication of integration. It's kind of funny in itself. You can always live with that. But what I'm wondering is why these proposals have gradually become different, because it is an important element of his first proposal that has been included in other proposals, namely the requirement that immigrants also respect the fact that Norway is a society based on the Christian basic values. And then it might have been nice to know: Why has the requirement for Christian fundamental values now fallen into the present version of the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1657	Hans J. Røssorde has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1660	This is probably an addressing again to the representative. I just affirm that in the case of the Center Party and the Defence Policy, it is to compare with one who goes into a restaurant and orders from a rich menu, but refuses to settle the bill afterwards. These include: because we're in the situation we are. And with a certain reference to a mentioned play – in Trøndelag, I suppose – I would argue that Mr. Lukewarm as usual backs into the sunset.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1667	At the end of the debate on the throne, I shall be very careful to say that this is partly a debate that is marked by the fact that the composition of the Stortinge is the same as at last year's debate on the throne, but the government situation is different. It has also marked the debate to a certain extent, primarily as a pre-post-fection to the forthcoming budgetary procedure. Environmental issues have marked the debate to a large extent. I also believe that this will be a pre-post-fection to the budgetary procedure, which I believe will be very much concerned with, and where the Government and the Government's will for cooperation will be put to the test, not least in relation to environmental policy, since the Government, as it knows, came to power by means of it, or rather by means of the opposite, namely a bad environmental issue. However, in order not to ask for the floor several times, I shall now take the opportunity to make a brief explanation of vote. Proposal No. 1, from SV, I would recommend the Christian People's Party Group to vote in favour. It is in line with our gas power policy that we get a more detailed professional assessment of the global impact of these emissions. Proposal No. 2 Mr Sponheim accepted the referral to the Committee for consideration at the same time as Document No. The 8th proposal has been put forward in the same field, and I think that makes sense. Proposals Nos. 3-6, from the Advancement Party, I would recommend the Christian People's Party group to vote against. They have so far-reaching consequences that we cannot take it in the form of a voting after the debate on the throne. Proposal No. Six other representatives, Jan Petersen, have commented. Proposal No. 7, from the Right, when it comes to transmitting the position of the Berg Committee on vocational education, I would recommend that our group vote in favour. As far as I know, the current Minister of Church and Education has announced that this would happen earlier, and then there have been other signals afterwards, and I think it is natural that we get it on the Stortinge table as soon as possible. Then we have the proposals No. 8 and 9, from SV. Proposal No. 8 concerns the conversion of the charging system. The intention of this is for, as we've also said in the past. [[It's ringing in a cell phone.]] As regards proposal No: 9 and the share of public transport in total transport, I think it belongs naturally to me in the treatment of the national transport plan. For the first time, there is now an overall transport plan, where such issues belong, so I would ask the SV to consider the proposal sent to the Transport Committee for consideration together with the transport plan. As regards proposal No: 10, from SV, I must urge our group to vote against it. It's so much about drastic changes in school and education policy that we're not prepared to take it right now. Proposal No. 11 is made by a representative of the Christian People's Party, and I will then, without any great surprise, recommend our group to vote for it. I will do the same in relation to proposal No. 12, which is promoted by women from multiple parties, on a highly topical matter which there is good reason to follow up in this way. I recommend that we vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1690	First, a few words about the debate between Ola D. Glötvold and the chair of the Defence Committee, Hans J. Røsjorde. It would probably be sufficient to recall that the Central Party has never voted for the Eastern Region and will not vote for it, so to the extent that the establishment of a field of fire for the East puts the defence economy in a worse position, others take responsibility for it. So a brief explanation of vote: I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 2 has been converted into a transmission proposal. I would recommend voting against proposal No. 3-6, but for proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox If – I have been a little inattentive – proposal No. 8 is not converted into a transmission proposal, I would recommend that the group vote for it. Proposal No. Like other proposals, I would like to be converted into a transmission proposal to the Committee. It belongs naturally to the treatment of the national transport plan. If not, I would recommend the group to vote in favour of that proposal. Proposal No. 10 – if it is not converted into a transmission proposal – I would recommend that the group vote against. Proposal No. 11 we are voting in favour, and proposal No. 12 for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1697	There are some of us who had expected to have a group meeting where we could clarify positions on a couple of proposals, but we can do it with the mouth-to-mouth method during the interview. This is a rather strange drumming debate, which sort of runs out a little bit in the sand. It is quite clear that the work to be done in relation to building political constellations in Norwegian policy in the future is not done for open hall and open microphone, but quite elsewhere. And it may make sense, at least the voters are saved for the worst pains so far. I have some comments on what has happened. With amazement I registered Siv Jensen's posts, because it was actually so that the Progress Party made a proposal yesterday without conferring with any other parties, namely proposal No. 6, which they thought was a proposal that would really end the intersection once and for all, and the other of us were not going to be able to go into that kind of proposal. But I believe that it is a proposal that does not take inward that encouraging the intersection of girls in Norway is a criminal act. We're not talking about traditions or culture. You have to be clear from the Storting that it is a criminal, criminal act to encourage, perform or make sure that it is done in the intersection of your own daughters. That is why I believe that the proposal of the Progress Party is a pale, elusive, explanatory and apologies proposal and quite contrary to what should be the firm position in these kinds of matters. Then I'm also very surprised if it's the case that some representatives in Stortinget have known that some Norwegian citizens or someone who has a stay in Norway have called for gross crime. Because if you've had that certainty and knowledge, you've also had a duty to go to a report to the police. The alarming feature of the TV2 program has recently been documented is that they were able to document the call for serious crimes, and that it was sent directly. If there's anyone here who knows about it, I'd like an explanation of why it's not reported. Otherwise, I think it is really very important that we take a cross-political responsibility that the contact between the girls and the women who have worked against these gross illegalities, and the broad majority of Norwegian society is good, and that we play on the team, because there are many people here who have to do a job. We must also take our share of that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1710	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1713	I have an explanation of vote. Shall I take it later, or shall I take it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1721	The President thinks we prefer to take it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1724	SV's proposal No. Of course we shall vote in favour of 1. No. 2 will be sent. No. 3-6 votes against. Proposal No. SV would like to support it. As regards proposal No: 8-9, we have been asked by Kjell Magne Bondevik to evaluate the submitted proposal No. 8 to the Government and proposal No. 9 to the Transport Committee. I wonder if we will meet it in such a way that we submit both proposal No. 8 and proposal No. 9 to the Transport Committee in connection with the transport plan – and I ask for it. Proposal No. 10 is a proposal from SV. As regards proposal No: 11, the SV is in doubt whether it makes sense to have one central knowledge base with competence for sexual abuse against children. Perhaps there should be regional knowledge bases, maybe there should be more, or it should be done in other ways. But raising the competence for sexual abuse against children is a very important task. So the intention, as we see it, behind this proposal we are for. If it's a reality vote, the SV's group is voting in favour, but we're making sure that we think this might be solved in a number of ways, i.e. that the Government must also have the possibility to assess more ways than one central base of competence. Proposal No. Of course, the SV Group votes in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1735	Several have not asked for the floor, and the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1744	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1750	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1815	The President then refers to voting proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to take the initiative in making a major effort at primary school. The most important part of the effort shall be: Minimum standards are introduced to reduce the large differences between municipalities. No municipality shall be allowed to spend less money in primary school than a statutory minimum number of hours. The number of pupils in the classes shall be reduced to the upper secondary level. Municipalities and schools testing new forms of organisation and working methods shall receive additional bonuses: [[stimulation subsidies]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1843	Proposal No. 7, from the Right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit its own case to the Stortinget on the Bergvertyde’s position on vocational education during the autumn 2000 season.’ [[NUE 2000:5]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1857	Proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asked the Government to investigate the possibility of establishing a central knowledge base with competence for sexual abuse against children. Professional staff attached to this base are intended to move out to the whole country upon request from local police stations. A possible knowledge base may be associated with the Criminal Police Centre and should consist of expertise that can quickly come into contact with the child in order to ensure possible evidence and to assist the child in the first phase of the processing of the experiences.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1871	Proposals Nos. 3, 4, 5 and 6, from the Advance Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present the necessary legislative proposals to enable the State to assume direct financial responsibility for the health sector in the country.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit the necessary legislative proposals to enable the State to assume direct financial responsibility for the care services of the elderly in the country.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present the necessary legislative proposals to enable the State to assume direct financial responsibility for the education services in the country.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a new Communication on Integration, inter alia, based on the fact that oppressive traditions and cultures cannot be accepted in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1902	Proposal No. 12, from Ågot Valle, Berit Brørby, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa, Sonja Irene Sjøli and May Britt Vihovde, are admitted to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan on female genital mutilation. The plan must include, inter alia: contains: Visualisation and enhanced cooperation with organisations and individuals working towards the gender mutilation of girls in the settings in force in Norway. Information that sexual mutilation of girls is prohibited by Norwegian law. Preventive measures, including: in health care and school. Strengthening international cooperation on these issues.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-11.ana.ud2325e1927	It remains for the President to propose that His Majesty the King speak to it 145. The staging of its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway is annexed to the Protocol. – This is deemed to be adopted.
