ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e15	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Hedmark County: Knut Newsether For Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Kjell Terje Fevåg For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For Oslo: Sissel Dagslet For the South-Trundellag counties: Ole Herman Jørgensen and Michael Momyr
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e52	Before we start the debate, the President will briefly outline the arrangements for it: The debate will have a restriction on participation. It is only the Prime Minister and the parliamentary leaders who can participate. This also applies to the lines. The Prime Minister's statement may last up to 15 minutes, while the speeches by the parliamentary leaders are limited to 5 minutes. In addition, the Prime Minister receives up to 3 minutes for a final comment. The speech, the speeches and the replies to the replies are kept from the ordinary pulpit. The sequences are taken from the pulpit placed in the hall. The participants, other than the Prime Minister, have initially been assigned a certain number of lines for which they decide their own use. But they can't use more than half of these for the same speech. The time limit for the lines and responses is up to 1 minute. There will be no opportunity to make proposals during this debate. Since the outline is not covered by the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, the President will ask for the approval of the Storting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e67	The state of the Kingdom is good. We go into the new millennium of peace and freedom. We have a wealth in the top of the world. We are rich in natural resources, and employment is very high. At the same time, we have many challenges and unsolved tasks. We have great opportunities, but also a great responsibility, which I would like to invite here tonight to debate on: Firstly, we need to focus on innovation in order to preserve the economic base of well-being and, secondly, to focus on fair distribution in order to give more opportunities for a good life. I have recently returned from official visits to three countries in Africa. The contrast is strong between their poverty and our prosperity. The African journey has once again strengthened my conviction that one of the most important things in politics is the fight for the poor and persecuted. This exposure cannot stop at national borders or at the borders of Europe. Everyone has the same human dignity! At the same time, the Government will work to consolidate our European and Western cooperation arrangements and develop cooperation with the Eastern and Central European countries. In the near future, the government will present a long-term strategy for our relationship with Russia. Active European policies are important to our country. At the end of the year, the government will present a European Communication. In addition, European policy and other foreign policy issues were discussed in the presentation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the debate on the last month. Without offensive policies to meet the challenges also in Africa, Asia and Latin America, we have no comprehensive foreign policy. This is more than ever the case now in the age of globalisation. For this reason, the Government has presented three new supports in our development and human rights work: The debt plan will result in a debt forgiveness of several billion dollars. It makes Norway a priority country — others follow. The escalating plan shall contribute to Norwegian assistance in 1 pst. of GNI. Here, too, Norway is on the front line. The human rights action plan provides 300 responses at home and abroad. It is a groundbreaking document, also internationally. The government has taken the challenges. It's about justice and distribution. We're on their side that needs it most, internationally and here at home. Now the Government's anti-sampling message for treatment is in Stortinget. There we propose measures for many of those who get the worst out today: people who are unemployed or have no connection to the labour market, those who have social assistance as their only income, those who have difficult housing conditions and people who suffer from mental or drug problems. We must agree on a more targeted effort for the disadvantaged. Solidarity values must continue to be carriers in Norwegian society. The government quickly proposed an increase in the minimum pension of NOK 12000 per year after its accession — and was adopted. It was a handshake to a group that deserved a lift. Security from crime is a central part of welfare policy. The government's reform proposal for more effective police management has been adopted by the Stortinget. It will strengthen the police's action. Just as it has been possible to reduce the criminality of profits, it is important to break down the wave, to combat domestic violence and crime among children and young people. Government action plans against violence in society and against child and youth crime invite broad cooperation between parents, school, child protection, police and non-governmental organisations. New measures shall protect victims of violence and strengthen their rights. In the healthcare sector, we still have many unsolved tasks. Therefore, this is the Government’s strongest priority areas. Elder care is greatly expanded. However, many older people still do not have the care they need. In our spring, the government is providing a key message on the status after two years of the action plan for the care of the elderly. The government quickly promoted multi-annual plans, which are now adding many new billions to the health sector: Over five years, more than DKK 2 billion will be used for operations and investments to renovate cancer care. Over eight years, the mental health escalation plan will provide investments worth over DKK 6 billion. The level of operational expenditure should actually be increased by approximately DKK 4.6 billion in excess of the 1998 level. This is a historical boost for one of the most neglected groups in society. Hospital capacity is strengthened. Never before have so many patients been treated. Never before has so much money been allocated to the health care system. Increased activity causes several hospitals, and thus county municipalities, to have financial problems. The government is reviewing the situation in cooperation with the county municipalities. In March, we will make proposals to the Storting on measures to ensure continued increase in hospital activity. Priority shall be given to the health service. In order to finance well-being, we need a dynamic business that provides jobs and a modern tax system that ensures the necessary revenues for the public. In order to stimulate business to invest in Norway, predictable framework conditions are essential. This is particularly true of fiscal policy. The 1992 tax reform has helped to establish key aspects of the tax system. Wide resolution solutions have high intrinsic value. The tax rules shall contribute to high value creation and fair distribution. VAT is the country's main source of income, but its design is not forward-looking. While VAT applies to all goods, with some explicit exceptions, the situation is the opposite for services. However, services are an ever-increasing part of the value added. Over time, this means that the tax foundation is narrowed down and wettered. Proposal to reverse the rules on services was made at the Labour Party Government table from 1990 onwards. The situation requires action. The Government will make proposals to modernise legislation so that goods and services are, in principle, treated equally. VAT shall be levied unless explicit exemptions have been made. In the context of tight budgetary policies, the Government, in cooperation with the Stortinget, has contributed to bringing Norwegian economy to a safer footing. The Norwegian economy is now strong. But the challenges are also great. In the short term, budgetary policy is very demanding because of the expenditure growth of regulated schemes and the need to prevent overheating of the economy. Over time, oil and gas revenues will also fall. We need to produce new products, businesses and jobs, which are going to keep growth and employment up even after what might be called the oil golden age. The Government’s strategy is based on the active use of information and communication technologies for necessary conversion and innovation. We will strengthen the knowledge society and focus on building skills. Wide-ranging cultural activities also promote people's capacity for innovation and transformation. The level of education in Norway is high. We have a good school, which, with extra effort, is going to be even better. The government will invest in high school in the coming years in particular, strengthen teacher retraining and further develop the role of teachers. Each secondary school shall have some teachers seconded to work and business through a new hospitation scheme. And we'll try out alternative organization of teaching and a new model for allocation of resources in relation to class size. The teaching profession must be attractive. We need even more skilled teachers to give our children the best possible education and education. The possibility of lifelong learning shall also be ensured for other workers. This is why, in cooperation with the social partners, the Government, through the reform of competences, has launched a forward-looking course in this area as well. Research and development are essential to be at the forefront. Norway has a lot to do here. For this reason, in the last two years, the Government has begun to step up research appropriations and has provided a wide-ranging communication. Norwegian enterprises must be able to recruit — and retain — the best skills. Therefore, the Government will now soften the rules for share options. It will also stimulate both Norwegian and foreign enterprises to have core activities in Norway. Through the Government’s ‘Simplify Norway’ project, we will simplify the company’s everyday life and trigger increased creativity in business. We have to be forward-looking, think long-term, and act offensively. Then we will make the transformation and innovation that makes the Norwegian economy sound even after the ‘oil age’, and secure housing and value creation throughout the country. New technologies also provide new opportunities for districts. Let me give you three examples of areas of growth we'll bet on: Firstly, Norway has to be among the world’s leading players in the development and use of ICT. It is now one of the most important driving forces for innovation. For this reason, the Government has presented an ICT plan for the school with a framework of approx. 750 million. kr over 4 years. It's more than a sixfold doubling of the state's efforts. The PC coverage in Norwegian schools is now among the highest in the world. In a recently published report, Norway is now ranked as a number. 4 in an international IT ranking. Secondly, coastal Norway has a high growth potential in fisheries and aquaculture. The industry has grown from a strongly subsidized industry to the second largest export industry in Norway in 25 to 30 years. In this area, we have natural advantages, and growth potential is still high, not least in fish farming. The government has therefore chosen marine research as one of our areas of activity. Thirdly, as an energy nation, Norway must be the leader in the development of a more environmentally and energy-friendly technology. For this reason, the Government has made a significant increase in appropriations for renewable energy sources and has provided tax incentives for environmentally friendly energy production. We will also bet on the environmentally friendly use of natural gas in this context. Climate policy is a major challenge. With Kyoto commitments, Norway must cut CO2 emissions by about 23 pst by 2010. compared to predicted emissions. Then it is backwards to greatly increase CO2 emissions through highly polluting gas power plants before we have a quota system. Instead, the government will contribute – also financially – to the reorientation of environmentally friendly technology. It surprises me that the Workers' Party and the Right reject discussion with the government parties about how we can avoid highly polluting gas power plants, and instead seem to have a hurry to facilitate them. It's a little forward-looking to start a new century of investing in the technology of the last century. The government is open to cooperation on energy policy in general and the gas power plant in particular if this can lead to environmentally sound solutions. After two and a half years, the government can look back on a number of its issues and priorities. This applies, inter alia, to: a new family policy, a new rural policy offensive, comprehensive health reforms, reinforced care for the elderly, increased commitment to research and innovation, action plans for human rights and debt restitution for developing countries, to mention something. Many of the measures in the Declaration of Adults have been either implemented or implemented. Our political accounts – and the impact of our policies – are good in relation to previous governments. In the long-term programme in spring 2001, we will deepen the Government's strategy for an innovative, safer and more solidarity Norway. We want to promote an offensive policy for solving new tasks. We're in a situation of minority government, which has been common for many years. This requires an extensive willingness to cooperate both on the part of the Government and on the part of the opposition. We are facing significant challenges in the future where this is particularly important, I think, among other things. on the future of the population and the future organisation of State petroleum resources. The government is set to cooperate. But of course there are limits to what we can take responsibility for. The government will continue to consider this carefully from case to case. The central government has created a new political pattern in Norway. I know that someone very much wants to go back to the old, simplified two-block system. But we have shown that the centre is also a centre of gravity and a government option that can help solve the challenges facing Norway at the start of a new millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e165	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e168	The Prime Minister's statement contained a good deal of self-confidence, but also many considerations and views I fully share, and they show that the Centre and the Workers' Party have common political objectives in many areas. On the other hand, the Prime Minister said a little about what I think is one of the main problems of the country, namely that we have a government that is increasingly managing a policy that it really disagrees with. This concerns Europe's policy, the Schengen Agreement, the veterinary agreement, our future banking structure, and more and more areas of environmental and energy policy. Of this, there will be no leadership, there will not be a government that governs, but there will be a government that administers a policy it itself does not agree with. Does the Prime Minister agree that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e173	I do not agree with the description of the new parliamentary leader of the Labour Party. Let me first congratulate him on new tasks. I welcome cooperation where it is natural – as Stoltenberg also pointed out that it may be in some areas – and to confrontations, where necessary. But the characteristic now given by the Government by Stoltenberg is wrong. And it's not going to be right as many times as the opposition repeats it. As I said in my introduction, the government is well positioned also in relation to governments that Stoltenberg himself has been sitting in, in terms of getting an impact on our policies. I don't have time to go through the list of things we've been through – showing leadership, showing the way. I just get to briefly refer to this political account, where we've been comparing what we've done with what we promised at the Adultåsen in the Adultås Declaration. It's good. It's not going to be right if the opposition repeats that we just administer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e180	I thank you for the kind words of the Prime Minister, and can reflect our interest in cooperation. There are many areas where we have a common position, and not least it applies within, among other things. the distribution policy. But I did not feel that the Prime Minister responded in any way to what was the main point, and that is, of course, related to the fact that we have a uniquely weak government. It's true that we've had minority governments before, but it's been a very long time since we've had a government that has had such a weak parliamentary basis in the Storting, and that doesn't want to establish solid cooperation patterns in any way, but that's made it a virtue not to have any permanent partners. And then we get a government that doesn't run through things it believes in, but on the other hand it has to run things it doesn't believe in. It creates a wing, it creates a policy in which one year we get a policy in one direction and the other year in the other direction. And so that's the problem I feel that the prime minister doesn't fully go in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e187	Firstly, I think it is interesting to hear – just these days – that the Labour Party parliamentary leader expresses the great interest in cooperating with the Centre. In the gas power case in question, Stoltenberg has linked to the Right and consistently rejects any invitation from the centre parties to enter into cooperation for the environment to prevent us from getting highly polluting gas power plants before we have a quota system and before we have new technology in place. That is what Stoltenberg advocates, that it should be free of emissions during that period. Then he says that it is a uniquely weak government. I repeat, it won't be more accurate if it repeats. The government is well-respected with previous minority governments, although they formally had some more representatives behind them. It might be interesting to ask a question back to Stoltenberg, since he is calling for a solid parliamentary basis. Stoltenberg has the ambition to become Prime Minister. Does he aim to have a solid parliamentary majority base here in the Grand Duchy, as his predecessor Jagland could be perceived? Will not Stoltenberg seek government until he has a majority in the Stortinge behind him?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e194	So now the questions have to be addressed to the Prime Minister in this round, so I'm sorry that this is no occasion for the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e197	Maybe the President can cancel the question mark. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e202	Does Stoltenberg want more lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e206	Yes, President. I notice that the Prime Minister is very pleased with his own government and believes that he gets to carry out a lot of things he is very pleased with. But there are also fewer and fewer voters who agree with the Prime Minister, and I notice that. Otherwise, I will reply in the loop after my article. But the Prime Minister brought in gas power plants, and that is not about who is for the environment, it is about how we get a more environmentally friendly energy supply as quickly as possible. What is the Government's plan is to make us increasingly dependent on very strongly polluting imports, and to set up a policy that will slow down our development of new technologies. We are in favour of a policy in which we use gas, have developed new technologies faster and thus reduce the total emissions of greenhouse gases. It's not just the Workers' Party saying, but it also says our leading trade unions, like Norway's watercourse and energy works, SFT and SINTEF. Does the Prime Minister think that, for example, NVE is wrong when they say that gas power will reduce total emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e215	Now it is quite daring of Stoltenberg to take, among other things. Income of the SFT for its vision. Last year, the SFT decided on the emissions permit for the contested gas power plants, with strict emission requirements. Then Stoltenberg said that he was satisfied with the decision, also that there were strict emission requirements. One year later, he will repeal these emission requirements. What's the reason for that? Nothing decisive has happened in that year. Then he's talking about importing polluting energy from other countries. Yes, if we are to be sure that starting pollution in Norway will lead to the reduction of pollution in other countries, we need a quota system in place. We don't. That's why we have stretched our hand out to the Workers' Party. Although we would prefer to use charges instead of allowances, we have said OK, we can be on an allowance system, but can you at least wait to start a gaseous power plant until we have it in place? Even so, the Workers' Party has not yet been interested in discussing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e222	I notice that the Prime Minister continues to ask me questions and does not answer my questions to him. I asked, do you agree with the NVE that total emissions are going down? In addition, the main conclusion has also been that the SFT, the State Pollution Control Authority, has been successful, namely that emissions are lower with gas power stations than without. But then they say they'll be even lower if we get CO2-free gas power plants, and you don't have to be a scientist to understand that. Everyone understands that. But you're not answering the main question, namely, that the top trade unions have documented that emissions are getting lower with our arrangement than with the government's arrangement, which is actually relying on ever more extensive imports, and it's not windmills they blow up in our neighboring country, but it's coal- and oil-fired power in everything. Is the emissions going up or down?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e227	I think you should be a little careful with using expressions like they have documented. The opinions expressed, both by the NVE and the SFT, are relatively nuanced and not as categorical as the Stoltenberg now gives the impression. On the day we have an allowance system in place, we can be sure that increased emissions in Norway can mean a reduction in emissions either in other parts of our country, in other industries, or in other countries. As long as we don't have an allowance system in place, we have no guarantee of that, absolutely no guarantee. I also believe that it will reduce the pressure on business to develop pollution-free gas power plants if we allow them to start with highly polluting gas power plants. We have stretched out a hand to the Workers' Party, and Stoltenberg says he is interested in cooperating with the Centre parties. We have pointed out a hand and asked: can we sit down and see how, from different points of view, we can find a solution that prevents unnecessary pollution, ensures an environmentally friendly gas power policy? It says the Workers' Party consistently no to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e236	The next line is from Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e239	I am glad that the Prime Minister concentrated on a very important question, namely, what are we going to live on after the oil? I'm a little less happy with what he said, because I'm not sure if the government has the necessary grip on what's to be done in a world of rapid change. One of the things that obviously needs to be done is to improve the Norwegian school system and the Norwegian education system. What the Prime Minister suggested is just trickery. Where has there been an improvement in response to teachers? Where has it become of the question of increased financial investment, such as, for example, The Government's agreement with the Workers' Party put a stop to it? Where has it become the exposure to the content of the school when, for example: to improve vocational training, to increase freedom of choice, a force force rate for those who have problems reading and calculating? In short, why is the Prime Minister so satisfied with the situation that he is simply making proposals for flickering? It is, after all, all important welfare issues that are determined by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e246	I'm glad that Petersen addressed the long-term challenges that go on what we're going to live on after the oil, which I also tried to concentrate a good part of my statement on. We agree, I think, that education, research and innovation are key concepts for getting a foundation for the time that comes when oil revenue begins to sink. But I can't agree that we're just messing with school policy. I am aware that someone in the opposition has suggested a good deal more money for various school policy measures. I'm not going to discuss what's been going on, but in some areas I think it's been pretty bad with the budget coverage that's been. We have submitted a report on recruitment, which is discussed in the Committee these days, where I hope there can be broad agreement on a good deal of action. We have provided a package to strengthen ICT in school, which may be one of the most important things. We have put in place better arrangements for teachers in the field of continuing training, hospitation in business. We would like to discuss further measures with the Right and other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e253	I assume that the Prime Minister is not particularly surprised that I do not think this was a particularly offensive response, because there is no new initiative in what he has presented today. Let me then switch to gas power, because he did not answer Stoltenberg's question in a proper way. Putting gas into use today is good environmental policy. It will bring European emissions downwards. The Prime Minister is probably trapped in his own rhetoric when he is so concerned about what is future-oriented. Then my question is: is it really that forward-looking when the Prime Minister still wants to rely on Danish coal power, still wants to rely on us to sell gas to the rest of the world and then import the power back again? What is the moral of us selling coal to the rest of the world, that we're letting others pollute, and then importing the power back again, when we can contribute by using our own resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e260	The opposition, and now the right, has a wonderful reason that only we are increasing pollution in Norway by something that might be somewhere equivalent to half or the entire Norwegian car park, pollution will go down to Europe at least as much. We have no certainty about that, and that's exactly why we want to develop an allowance system to get control of it. As far as Danish coal power is concerned, we now have a free energy market in the Nordic region. We read in the press a while back that the question of whether Danish coal power plants will continue or not is not decided whether we are building highly polluting gas power plants in Norway. It surprises me that there is no time to wait for us to have a national or international quota system — and nationally it can be quite close in time — but death and life have such a hurry that one must open up to highly polluting gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e267	It is not difficult to answer: simply because we want European emissions down now, and that is what the Prime Minister does not want to contribute to. Only Norway sees gas power plants as a problem. In Europe, this is one of the solutions to the pollution issue, and that is what is at the heart. The government has said that it is a sort of centre of gravity, although I think it is also quite interesting when the Prime Minister now says that the Adult Declaration is far on the way as a political arsenal. We now have a lot of important, big things we're facing, where there's no guidance to pick up there. But what we also see with the Government is that it has little active probe. We have e.g. did not hear anything from the Government in the year our gas power proposal has been in. That is why my question is whether we can now wait for a changed style in terms of investigations by the Government, and not least I think very many bourgeois voters are prepared to know, after the government turned their right backs last autumn: can bourgeois voters expect an initiative from Bondevik in terms of closer civil cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e276	Since Petersen started again with a gas power plant, I would like to mention a parallel example. I don't think building gaseous power plants is what promotes environmentally friendly gas power plants. A few years ago, there was a problem with the burning of gas, so-called flaring, on the Norwegian continental shelf. We introduced a ban on this in practice. It helped to force a new technology. I think we should now say no to highly polluting gas power plants. I think that would be an incentive to get pollution-free gas power plants. If the Right has felt or feels that the contact is not good enough in matters where there is natural contact between the Center Government and the Right, we are more than happy to contact you. I have said and believe that we want to cooperate with different parties on Stortinget. We believe that the center also has a special advantage in being able to cooperate both ways. As Prime Minister in a government, I don't think it's right for me to speculate in other government alternatives. I think the government question will clarify the parties' national meetings in the spring of 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e286	The next line comes from Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e289	I'm standing here with the manuscript of Kjell Magne Bondevik, and I noticed that there's one sentence he skipped over, a short little sentence, and it says, "I'm optimistic." I guess that's because he's become something more pessimistic over the past few hours. [[Laughter]] Bondevik describes the central government as a centre of gravity. But in many ways, the government is not even a point in forming a majority in the Grand Duchy, because they are formed outside the Government. The government will only become an implementation point. I want to ask Bondevik if it is such that the central government now sees an advantage by forming a firmer majority in the Stortinget that the center does not have to choose one block one day and the other block the other day, but can bet systematically to achieve some of the visions that Bondevik has taken up in his presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e296	I'm glad that Kristin Halvorsen helped me get one of the sentences of several that I unfortunately had to skip because of time constraints. But I'm absolutely optimistic. This was related to what we're going to bet on and live off after the oil age, and there I'm optimistic. I am also optimistic about the political situation, because this is a government where cohesion is strong, where the momentum is strong. Of course, we don't go beyond what we get into working with the Stortinget. The fact that Kristin Halvorsen also repeats it to the others from the opposition that this government has nothing to do with it doesn't make it any more true if she says it again, just in other words. When it comes to establishing a more solid majority with one block, it's an expression that Kristin Halvorsen lives in the old two-block fence. I had hoped that she was a slightly more modern politician who saw that the conflict lines were going along several dimensions of Norwegian policy, for example. in the environmental policy that we are now discussing. Is there a two-block fence there, is it the right-hand side towards the left-hand side? No, that's not it. Here I've realized that Kristin Halvorsen is in line with the center parts. This is an expression that the old two-block plot, which surprises me that Kristin Halvorsen is still hanging in, is old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e305	I assume that Bondevik understands what problems the government is in itself, but I can help him a little. The whole point of what the government is struggling with now is that the government of Bondevik has wanted to switch from one block to the other and has thus failed to ensure that it has negotiated with a majority on the Stortinget which makes it possible to get through some of the areas where the center and SV do not have a majority initially in the Stortinget. Environmental policy is very important in this regard. When the government itself has decided to run a lot between two blocks, you don't get into a situation where, for example. it is possible to push the Workers' Party to pursue a more modern and forward-looking environmental policy than they are doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e310	I still notice that Kristin Halvorsen hangs again in this block thinking. Is it not possible for SV to see that Norwegian policy has changed? It's no longer a two-block picture. It surprises me that the SV of all should hang in such an old pattern, which primarily interests the Workers' Party and the Right. The SV should not be interested in that. No, I sincerely believe that cooperating with different parties, what Kristin Halvorsen a little odiously calls running slums – now that slums are an important sport – has actually given us a great impact. I would like to start listing the matters for which we have been informed. I have a good conscience for what we've been doing in two and a half years. If we keep going, I think the list is going to be longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e317	Then the line change after the Prime Minister has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e320	The last century was about transforming Norway from a poor society into a welfare society. We've done that job. Our revenues have grown much faster than in other western industrialized countries. We've tripled our income in 30 years. Other European countries have doubled their own. The century we're now going into has to be about how we're going to use, and not least how we're going to distribute this great wealth. The political dividing lines are just going to be about this task. We must guard against wealth making us self-righteous and introverted – that we become ourselves enough. We need to show more tolerance and respect for our fellow human beings, regardless of ethnic and cultural backgrounds. We need to preserve our cultural heritage, but we also need to ensure diversity. That we've become rich as a nation doesn't make it any less important to be concerned about the fair distribution of the goods. On the contrary — when we have greater wealth together than ever before — it becomes all the more unacceptable that some people have too little, and that we continue to experience major shortcomings in basic welfare services such as care for the elderly, health and education. It is no longer the case that it is the evolution of our overall material standard of living that determines whether we live in a good society. The crucial thing is whether we can distribute the goods, take care of each other, and stand up for those who have it difficult. That is the biggest political challenge we are facing. A first test of our willingness to do something about this will be the treatment of the Equalizer message now in the spring session. Ensuring well-being is about securing the income of the community. Then we have to have a fair and good tax system, without all the gaps that we always know are those with the greatest income and the greatest wealth that is best to make use of. We must work for lower taxes on labour and higher taxes on consumption. The large income we have had in recent years is largely due to the fact that we consume an important part of our national wealth, oil and gas. This isn't income in the usual sense, we bottle off a savings account. The more important it is that we put a lot of the money aside, so that we can secure the well-being even when oil revenues start to fall. We need to secure popular security as the pillar of our welfare society. Building up our common well-being also requires a more modern and efficient public sector that puts users at the centre. Many people ask what we're going to live on when the oil ends. The answer is that no one knows. We also didn't know 30-40 years ago what we were going to live on today. A few decades ago, our leading geologic experts ruled out finding oil and gas on the Norwegian continental shelf. The breeding industry was completely unknown. Today it is our second largest export industry. Much less, some had imagined that some of our most dynamic companies would produce large values using computer technology. We don't know today what to be our most important industries in some decades. But we know that we'll be completely dependent on knowledge. More than anything else, the knowledge we're going to live on when the oil comes to an end. That is why the Workers' Party will be so committed to education. We want to go further than the Government in improving the recruitment of the teaching profession, and we want to invest more in research. Only by increasing investment in research and education can we develop an offensive industrial policy and a strong IT industry. Knowledge is also crucial in working for a better environment. This is why, as early as 1997, the Workers' Party went in to set up its own schemes to support the development of more environmentally friendly technologies. The center government has stepped down this stake. By employing the best available technology to produce power using gas, we can reduce our need to import highly polluting power and help us to develop even more environmentally friendly solutions more quickly. There is one problem of distribution that is more important than anything else. We must never forget that nearly a quarter of the earth's population does not get enough food. Hunger is not due to the lack of food. Never before have we produced more food per. is living in the world as of today. But the world's poor people can't afford to buy the food. The problem here is also an unfair distribution of the goods. We're richer than ever, but we're going to be a poorer society if we can't take care of solidarity and community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e349	Let me also congratulate Jens Stoltenberg on the appointment of Prime Minister candidate and parliamentary leader. In this context, several of us have wondered whether a new parliamentary leader can mean the modernisation of the Labour Party's policy, or whether it is just a new face that will represent exactly the same policy that has been in recent times. We have many noticed that in other countries there has been a modernisation, especially in Germany and England. It would have been interesting to hear whether Jens Stoltenberg will continue to be on the policy of high taxes and taxes and no statutory rights for the elderly and sick for the necessary treatment and help, and whether he will continue the genius criminal policy that takes more account of the criminals than of the victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e356	Every time Carl I. Hagen talks about modernising the Workers' Party, he thinks we should move to the right and adopt the Progress Party's policy. And if you mean modernisation, the answer is a clear no. I don't want to add up to a policy where we adopt the policy of the Progress Party. But if, with modernisation, you think that the Workers' Party should take on board the new challenges, the new tasks, and take on board them, then of course the answer is yes. But there's nothing new, the Workers' Party has done over and over again. Over many decades, we have met new challenges and solved them. And the Workers' Party is not a one-man enterprise as the Progress Party can at times act as, the Workers' Party is a large party with democratic decisions in which we jointly develop politics. And the policy won't be any other of that we have a slightly different division of labour at the top.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e363	I wish it were like Jens Stoltenberg and others later as it is in the Progress Party – but it probably isn't. [[Laughter]] In the old days it was such that the Workers' Party was concerned with the woes of ordinary people and well in everyday life. Jens Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party seem to have left this, if there have been no changes. And what I'm thinking about is: Norway, the world's richest country when Stoltenberg and Bondevik are abroad, has major health problems because of lack of money for regional hospitals and central hospitals, who need new equipment and better resources to exploit the nurses and doctors they have, our old age care has major problems with lack of equipment, lack of staff, and there are no statutory rights for ordinary people, and there is an insecurity among ordinary people in our country as regards the growth of crime. The working party has done nothing about it. Will there be anything better with Jens Stoltenberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e371	The representative Hagen says he's worried about ordinary people. There's a reason to be. There are many people who have it difficult, but at the same time it is that ordinary people have never felt better in Norway than today, and the Labour Party has ruled most of the time. So it can't be that the party that's responsible for much of the social development we've seen is not occupied by ordinary people, when ordinary people actually have it much better. We are committed to care for the elderly, we are committed to education and we are also committed to the fight against crime. It has stepped up in all the areas in the years of the Workers' Party's overthrow. What's the problem is that this effort costs money over the community boxes. It will be a threat to that effort, whether it be for care of the elderly, sick or old, to follow up the policies of the Progress Party to give something like DKK 100 billion in tax relief. Then it becomes more to those who have the most, and less to common well-being. We reject that. That's what we call immature politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e378	I should have liked to have a better explanation of why tax relief for most people, that they got a greater degree of governance with their own economy, would cause most people to get the harder. Jens Stoltenberg has been concerned about this issue. And then I want to ask: when we are so lucky as a nation that there will be a significant increase in revenue as a result of a high oil price, why is it automatic that it will only happen to those who live in this country in 20, 30, 40 years or are pensioners at that time – why should not those who are now in this country benefit from it? Why should it be that ordinary Norwegian drivers have to pay Europe's highest petrol price? We can afford to reduce the fuel taxes and diesel taxes and thus also prevent us from getting a inflation pressure. And we can actually afford – through the purchase of equipment and other abroad, for example. older institutions — to help those who built this country and not just think about those who will live here in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e385	Carl I. Hagen is still talking like we haven't put up to bet on the elderly. One of the last workers’ party government did before it left in 1997 was to present the largest effort in the care of the elderly. We put forward a concrete development plan and spent NOK 30 billion on a huge expansion of the care of the elderly. We were able to do that within a responsible financial framework, and that means we could do it without inflation, high price increases and the reduction of industry and competitive activities. It is the responsibility of the Progress Party in total lacks to both increase appropriations for all good purposes and at the same time dramatically reduce taxes. It's a irresponsible policy, and it's a policy that just keeps you very far from power and influence, as the Progress Party is and is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e390	The next replicator is Einar Steensnæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e393	There was a lot in Jens Stoltenberg's posts that I appreciated, the arrangement of it, the things he mentioned that he would prioritize within a short time frame – I liked that. Now he wasn't going to mention the international environmental challenges, or the poverty problem, but overall, I think the newly elected parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party had a device that I appreciated. Now Stoltenberg was concerned with the broadest possible parliamentary basis for a government. And now I see in the Workers' Party that it may be more urgent than many had thought, to enter the government position. I am aware that 65 representatives are more than 42 representatives, so there is a minority government in which case the Labour Party has to rely. And I would like to ask Stoltenberg: What broad parliamentary basis does Jens Stoltenberg see for himself that he should be able to form a more effective government that has a broader basis in Stortinget, and thus better ensure the implementation of his policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e402	Now the Workers' Party has no immediate plans to form a government. What we have immediate plans to do is to get a majority of our policies in an important area: to get a majority to use gas in Norway instead of importing more and more powerful pollutants from our neighbouring countries. If there's a government problem, we're not taking the initiative, but it's the government. And for the government, it's no art to avoid the government crisis, it's just to be seated and accept another defeat, and it's the government's good experience, and it's an exercise they master well. So if this is going to be a government problem, then we're not taking the initiative, then it's in the case of the government taking the initiative. So if you choose to sit, there's no problem, at least not on this side of the election. We have invited several times the center of cooperation, because we agree with many of the priorities the center does, and we believe that in the long term there is a lot of common thinking between the center and the Workers' Party. But such cooperation must be based on the fact that there are also inequalities. You are e.g. hot trailers of the cash support, that is not us. We're hot trailers of gas power, it's not you, but we have to be able to cooperate anyway, although there are issues where we disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e409	I have noticed various statements from the Workers' Party regarding the cash support. The cash support was a reason why the Workers' Party parked itself completely on the sideline for a few years, before they finally decided to put this stone aside. We had believed that the cash support had now been finally cleared in the Workers' Party, but some statements from the Workers' Party's women's movement may indicate that this is not the case. This creates a new uncertainty for all those who are now planning child care and who are dependent on the stability of the schemes put in place. I think Stoltenberg should take this opportunity to clarify whether it is that the Workers' Party has now accepted the majority in the Stortingen for this important arrangement that the cash support involves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e416	I mean Steensnæs makes it a little bit more difficult than it actually is. The working party is not subject to current cash support, as adopted by the majority of the Stortinget. At the same time, however, we have made it clear, not least through the budgetary agreement last autumn, that it will not block any cooperation on the budget if we get enough through in other areas. And the main reason why we were willing to vote for NOK 3 billion for a scheme that we still don't think is good was that we felt that we got a pass on to other important areas. That's when you have to make compromises. And I'm counting on e.g. that Christian People's Party is still opposed to self-determined abortion, even if they are in a government that administers the abortion law. That's how it has to be when you don't get a majority for what's your primary position. In practice, we have shown that we can cooperate, even though we still think that there are other ways it is better to support the families of children than with today's cash support scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e423	Now we know that Stoltenberg is tired of us quoting from his January press release last year about SFT's emission permit. But this is, in fact, also about credibility and coherence in climate policy. He said a year ago: the working party is pleased that strict environmental requirements are being imposed in the permit from the SFT in the construction of gas power plants. He also said that there is an absolute and unavoidable requirement for the use of natural gas in Norway that this can be integrated into our international climate obligations. And finally, I expect that the construction of a gas power plant will not take place until it is clear whether it is possible to build a plant where the CO2 emissions are widely removed. Which of these opinions is Jens Stoltenberg still standing by?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e432	The answer is: all of them. What Einar Steensnæs well knows, as I also explained in detail, is the following: When we said that you should not invest in gas power plants until it was clear whether you could use new technology, it was because Hydro had launched a completely new concept a few months in advance. Then there was uncertainty as to whether we should proceed with the original plans. I said no, we should wait until Hydro has decided whether their arrangements can be implemented. A few months later, Hydro said, "No, it can't be done." Well, then we mean we're going to go further with the original plans. I believe that the government parties must soon understand the reference to one, concrete proposal that Hydro has put aside, and Hydro now says that they think we are getting new and better technology faster if we start using the best available technology that exists today. You are the ones who are slowing down in the climate work, and you are the ones who have turned the whole way around, because as late as last autumn, you were aiming to bet more on CO2-free gas power. In fact, you have reduced the appropriations for CO2-free gas energy research in this year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e441	Together with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e447	No, no, no. That's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e452	The next replicator is Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e455	Can I correct a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e460	No, that's not a reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e463	There is no doubt that Jens Stoltenberg has taken over as parliamentary leader – I have congratulated him before, but I would like to do it again – has triggered a number of expectations about changing the line of the Workers' Party. I want to ask about a few of the possible changes. One of them, which is overly mature, concerns the field of school and education, where Stoltenberg, in his post now interestingly enough, said that he wanted to go further than the Government when it came to measures to ensure that young people bet on the teaching profession. Yes, it has to be a lot longer than the government, because this is the very core of the school challenge right now. But in another area there is also a potential for improvement: the Workers' Party must get away from its A4 school, which is too poorly adapted to the individual student, and provide for a better adapted vocational education, deeper education, the electoral profession in high school, and not least for those with reading and writing skills. The question is: in which areas will the Labour Party now change its school policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e472	There are many of us who have not had, and have gradually acquired, literacy skills. We'd like to bet on more people, and we're the trailers of that, also in the Workers' Party. But what we've done is, first of all, in the context of the recruitment message, to make a lot of concrete proposals on how to strengthen teacher recruitment, which may be the core issue in terms of improving the quality and level of school. We have done so, linked to, among other things. actions in the field of competence enhancement. We also have some formulations about wages, as the Teacher Team said they were not quite satisfied with, but they thought was a step in the right direction. There we have presented a package of quite a lot of money to strengthen teacher recruitment, as a key response to how we will get more effort in relation to education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e479	There is no doubt that the actual teacher recruitment is at the core, and therefore there must be substantive, proper measures that make young people feel confident about entering the profession. That's what it's all about. But there is another issue that is concerned, which is about Stoltenberg's statements on taxes, where he has confessed to a high level of taxation. The central bank manager came last week with a rather strong warning against believing that you can treasure well-being. He warns against increases and points not least to the fact that there is tax competition between countries and that the countries that have reduced their tax levels have also been able to attract activity. But Stoltenberg sends out the opposite signals. If you're talking about giving some benefits in some areas, you're going to have to make sure that you get back in other areas so that you keep a high level. What can then be done quickly is simply to tell you about the branch you're sitting on, because of the international tax competition. Does it simply mean that in this area everything is getting old in the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e486	First, I want to thank Jan Petersen for quoting me quite correctly. I have agreed to have a still high tax level, i.e. tax on what we have today of the national product, while others have explained it as if I have opted for a higher tax level. The Labour Party has not included this in its programme, nor in the long-term programme that we presented in 1997. When we defend a high tax level, it's because we see that there are huge unsolved tasks, for example. in school — which was the previous question. It costs a few billion quickly. We know that we spend about NOK 5 billion more this year just to maintain the benefits of popular fear. We know that we get an ageing population that will require more health and more care. Then we think it is simply irresponsible, as the Right says, to promise comprehensive tax relief, then there will be less money for well-being. There is no private distress that is the main problem in Norway today, there is a lack of public welfare services that is the main problem. The problem with the Right is that they are both for lower taxes and for giving more for most good purposes, while at the same time they want a responsible fiscal policy. It's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e495	The problem with the Labour Party's tax policy is that they do not have the imagination to see a high level of taxation going beyond value creation and thus help to remove some of the foundations of the welfare state. That is the problem not least pointed out by the governor. But there is another important area in which we can go in to ensure well-being, and more resources need to be provided for both care and education. But what we have to do then is to move on with quite clear policies to change public administration and bring about reforms in the public sector. This applies, for example: to remove one of our three levels of government, fewer regulations to manage, a willingness to take on fewer tasks, a willingness to provide services and to privatise, and a willingness – because labour is a problem – to allow labour immigration. In these areas, however, Jens Stoltenberg only says in his accession interview that he wants more employees in the public sector, and that is not the answer to the question, because he has to settle with special interests, such as: important trade union interests. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e502	Right and Jan Petersen are against more employees in the public sector, but for more teachers, for more nurses, for more doctors and for more employees in most public services. That is where there is again a slight lack of consistency between the rhetoric and the action in the right. And then there's an old bourgeois myth that high tax levels lead to low growth. If taxes are sensible, low tax rates on a broad tax basis, we can get very strong growth with a tax level at the level we have in Norway today. Now, for example: Sweden highlighted as one of the leading IT countries in the world, one of the countries that has really managed to speed up its IT industry. It is true that Sweden has a higher tax level than Norway. Finland is highlighted as an excellent country – Nokia, a fantastic enterprise, a fantastic innovation, all the right thing to want in Norway. Finland has taxes as high as Norway. So it's a very strange economic theory and poor economic empathy to say that a good tax system leads to low growth – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e524	The next line is from Johan J. Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e528	For the sake of order, let me inform you that I have congratulated Jens Stoltenberg on the new dignity for the longest time. I noticed that Stoltenberg, in his contribution, stressed the possibilities of cooperating on the welfare tasks with the centre parties, and he specifically mentioned the cohesion message. An important part of the cohesion strategy is, among other things: on this issue of fair taxation, social networking and housing — to mention some specific issues. These are issues that are also linked to the budget that we are going to deal with for the autumn, and then there is an interesting question: is it that the Workers' Party is also prepared to accept the cash support as a basis for negotiations on any budget? And then I ask that the Prime Minister's candidate for the Workers' Party does not mind that it was implicit in the question that it is Gudmund Restad who is to provide the budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e535	First, it's up to the Government to decide whether this gas power case is going to be a problem for the Government. We have put forward our policy, and it is the government that has raised the government issue. As to whether we can accept the cash support as a basis for negotiation, the answer is yes, in the sense that we did that last autumn, and we have been open to do that again, if we get an impact on other important parts of our policy. For example, when we were able to accept the cash support last fall, it was because we got more to the municipalities, more to health, more to care for, but also that we actually got lower taxes on the lowest incomes, both because it can contribute to a fairer distribution and because we think it can contribute to a more dynamic economy or actually increase the supply of labour, which is one of the most important things now in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e542	In order to bring us back to the matter in question, which concerns most of the Stortinget today, namely the issue of the construction of gas power plants: the problem with the Workers' Party's position is that there is not yet an international quota system. It will still take quite a number of years before it is up to date. But then I would remind Stoltenberg that when the government presented its Kyoto message, the Workers' Party and Stoltenberg were in favour of a national allowance system pending an international system. My question to the Labour Party parliamentary leader is therefore: Is Jens Stoltenberg still in favour of establishing such a national quota system that can be made operational from the turn of the year 2001 to 2002?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e547	First of all, I would like to make a point, and that is that the Workers' Party has been a party to allowances, the so-called Kyoto mechanisms, which aim to allow countries to join forces to implement emission reductions, ever since the Kyoto process and the Rio Conference began at the end of the 1980s/beginning of the 1990s. Then the center parties were against it. They thought it almost immoral to invest in clean-up measures in other countries and thus be able to implement their environmental obligations by purchasing allowances from other countries. So there were direct opponents to the Center Party. Now they're doing this with quotas as the main point of their climate policy, and we're very happy about that, it's a follow-up to the Labour Party's policy, just like investing in CO2-free gas power plants is also a great turnaround from the centre and follow-up of the Workers' Party's policy. We mean the exact same thing about allowances now as last year, as opposed to center, and that means we're for the national quota system as described, among other things. by linking it to an international system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e552	The next replicator is Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e555	There are two issues in the Storting now that can lead to a government crisis in a very short time. I'm not going to ask Stoltenberg about the contents of the gas power plant – there I don't think anything new can be brought to the square – but I want to ask him why the Workers' Party runs the gas power plant as hard as they do, in alliance with the Right. And in the case of the other case, namely the case of IT-Fornebu: Why does the Workers' Party run the case as hard as they do, in alliance with the Advance Party? If there were to be a government crisis on any of these issues, the Workers' Party will achieve no other situation than that which led to the withdrawal of Ichland in 1997, namely an unsustainable parliamentary situation where there was a constant majority against the Government's policy. The big sport here in the house, the question both the Right and the Advance Party asked themselves every morning, was, How can we put on a defeat today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e560	After all, when we have put forward the proposals and put forward the positions we have taken on the gas power issue and on the IT fornebu issue, it is because in that way we get a majority for what we think is the best policy, the best policy to promote Norwegian information technology and the best policy to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, it has been demonstrated that lower emissions will be achieved by reducing imports from our neighbouring countries. We have to do this because we are in charge of that policy. So it's like there's other people bringing up the government question. But my impression is that the government is very busy sitting. The government has accepted defeat of the veterinary agreement – as many in the government parties thought was a threat to public health, they have accepted defeat of the Schengen agreement, which they thought could promote crime and drug trafficking, they have accepted defeat of the bank structure, which they believe is completely reversed by what they originally proposed, they have accepted defeat of the shooting grounds and of the Upper Eighth, which they thought were dramatic environmental interventions. And then I expect that they can also accept another defeat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e567	It's precisely this logic that makes it impossible to form a reasonable majority in this big room so that you can tackle some of the important, long-term tasks we have to work with in Norwegian politics. If the Labour Party continues to have the attitude that we adopt what we mean, and then we rely on the support of the Progress Party in one case, from the Right in the other case and from the Center Government in the third case, then we are in exactly the same situation as in 1997. And environmental policy is at the heart of this, as to whether there is a basis for cooperation between the centre and the SV on the one hand and the Workers' Party on the other. Therefore, my next question must be: Is Stoltenberg in agreement with Jagland that what had been most predictable and best in terms of planning in the long term was a centre-left alliance in Norwegian policy that could cooperate on the major lines within a four-year period?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e574	I agree with Mr Jagland – also on that issue. I've said that I think it's between the center and the Workers' Party that we can find the best solutions. But this cannot mean eradicating our policies in areas where we have positions that differ, such as: cash support or gas power. It is only when we sit down and, if necessary, discuss a cooperation that we have to deal with those issues. And if the centre actually wanted to cooperate on these questions, which I would have liked to discuss and have had conversations about – it is wrong to say that we have rejected all calls, because we have called up to several times – then you should have made contact before making the decision. In June 1999, the government took an administrative decision of a high political and principal nature without making any attempt to investigate what the Stortinget meant. And I don't think that's a cooperative, that's the direct opposite. If the government had then come to the Stortinget, as such a narrow minority government should of course have done in such an important matter, we could have had a reasonable dialogue about it. The selected government has no task to do. It is also wrong that we have not wanted to talk to them now. We would like to talk, for example. on the use of CO2 free gas power.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e586	The next replicator is Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e589	Jens Stoltenberg makes a big point that the government is allegedly being run by Stortinget on a case-by-case basis. The Prime Minister has well documented that this is not the case. He has shown that the Government delivers results, and Stoltenberg said in his speech today that never before have ordinary people in Norway had it as well as now – that is, after two and a half years of central government rule. But Stoltenberg is right that in some areas the government is going to defeat, among others. the issues on which the Workers' Party and the Advance Party jointly find solutions. That was the case when the government proposed a liberalisation of the system of labour immigration, a system many small businesses want. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have prevented such liberalisation. Now we hear that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are in the process of changing their vision. My question is whether Stoltenberg is satisfied that, together with the Progress Party, his party will find a solution in this kind of question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e599	You could say a lot about the central government -- and especially about the government's smallest party, the left -- but there's nothing wrong with it, it's at any time raised. I won't say more about it. So to the question of labour immigration. Here I can bring news to the representative Kvassheim, and it is that the Workers' Party has today agreed to the changes and adjustments in the regulation of labour immigration proposed by the Government, as we believe that this is right because they help to facilitate the conditions for those who want to come to Norway, and because some Norwegian companies, for example. in the information industry, it needs to. In addition, it is a new example that we want cooperation, that we want dialogue – and thus in many areas support the central government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e606	I had decided to be very careful with self-esteem, so I was content to take income into account the wording that Stoltenberg himself thought described the situation in Norwegian society today. In the case of labour immigration, I have registered the change that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party are now making at the same time. But my question was whether it was not natural for the Workers' Party in this area to seek the liberal solutions along with the central government, while the central government is promoting such proposals. It could also have the nice side effect that the number of defeats that Stoltenberg is so worried about had been reduced. And then finally, in terms of corporate taxation, the Labour Party has had one type of view before elections and a kind of view after elections. What might have been interesting to know now was whether Prime Minister candidate Stoltenberg wants to remove the stock abate, wants to inculcate the sharing model and wants to change the regime for the shipping tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e615	Only in the case of labour immigration: it is not like we were against these proposals when this was up a year ago, because then it was not a proposal, then there were some general considerations in a big message – and we reserved ourselves against the purely general considerations. When the concrete proposals were put forward, we supported them. I was involved in many debates last year, stressing that the concrete proposals submitted to a working group were open to us to consider. So here's the continuous logic all the way. As far as corporate taxation is concerned, I would just like to say the following: The biggest tax threat to Norwegian small businesses is the central government, because the main operating tax is the tax on general income, what the government calls capital taxes, but which is the tax paid by all Norwegian enterprises, which is in a way the bearer, the main act of the tax reform – 28 pst. flat tax on profits on small enterprises. It has repeatedly suggested that you increase. The bill in dollars is a dramatically larger tax increase than the tax gaps we want to close in terms of the sharing model and shipping tax, which are thus holes that the rich can use, while the small businesses are affected by the brutal tax policies of the Left. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e622	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e625	I have to say that the new parliamentary leader of the Labour Party is very surprised at this debate. In his main post, and especially in his reply to the Prime Minister, he saddles the government north and down and presents it as a danger to society that we have such a weak government, with such a weak foundation, and that is to the degrees hopeless. Afterwards he implies that he is not in any way seeking government. After what he said in his reply to the Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg should really be obliged to be on the hunt for government, it should be an obligation he undertook to remove the government that he says is to the degrees hopeless for society. So here it doesn't matter much to have one logical thought with another. The progress party is going to continue to hit the exact same issues that we believe common people in this country are deeply concerned about in their daily lives. Jens Stoltenberg hassles us a little from above and down because we want to spend more money on our regional, central and local hospitals, where the directors now spend far too much time assessing how to get the budgets going, who they are going to cancel, and who they might say no to accept as patients. It would have been better if they could concentrate on producing as much healthcare as possible for the benefit of the population. You could also change some of the positions that are part-time due to lack of money, because lack of money is not what currently characterises the Norwegian state. On the contrary, we have never had such a good economy, and then, above all, nursing elderly and sick people should know that we will do what is in our power to give them the help they need, possibly by importing both hospital services and care services. We know that ordinary people are busy bringing down crime. You see the crime of gangs. We know that many people have an insecurity feeling. Despite this, the other parties vote against proposals on a proposal from the Progress Party to strengthen the police. Just a few days ago, they voted against a proposal for stricter penalties for revenants, which would prevent them from coming out and committing new crimes. We're going to continue to masturbate on the fight against crime, even if we're ridiculed by some of our competitors. We will continue to speak for a more reasonable and realistic refugee and immigration policy despite attempts to scare us into silence in this matter. There is a record for asylum seekers to Norway. These are major problems of settlement, and these are major problems of integration. Even though the others don't see the difficulties, we do. And we actually fully agree that there has become a new problem. We agree with Gunnar Prestegård, Christian People's Party's long-standing politician in Oslo, who, when it comes to applying for petitions from minarets at mosques, says the following: ‘It is not desirable that Muslims call to prayer throughout the city. I am in favour of religious freedom, but we must preserve the Christian values on which the Norwegian community is built. Every society has its distinctive character, the Norwegian is characterized by Christianity. Prayer appeals interfere with Christian traditions.» Others take this as a noise problem, without seeing the challenge this poses to the values I actually thought the Prime Minister built his political function on. Of course, we must have respect for others. Of course, we need freedom of religion. But it is disappointing to witness that the Government and the Christian People's Party do not see the challenge that individual Christian leaders call the emergence of Islam and Islamic attitudes in Norway, is for Norwegian society. And then finally, in the case of the gas power debate, it would not be difficult to get profitable wind power production in Norway. If only the government, as now the government parties and the SV add up, cover the costs of setting up the investment, cover some expenses and leave it to someone else about free of charge, then it becomes profitable. This is pure subsidisation, and the money you want from the government parties to spend on this could have gone to more hospitals and more elderly care places. It would have been preferable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e648	I believe that one of the most important tasks we face as a nation is to create tolerance and a diversity where we get the best in each other, and then we also have to accept that people have different religions, different cultural backgrounds and live in Norway. There are no questions about having people with different skin color and other religion in Norway, but there are questions about how to live together. The attitudes expressed by Carl I. Hagen are attitudes that create conflicts, contradictions, and increase the problems of immigration — they are not reduced by expressing that having prayers from minarets is a noise problem. It is clear that everything needs to be regulated, that privacy needs to be taken into account – everyone understands that. But it is, according to the Inter-Church Council, that in several Muslim countries, for example. in Syria and Egypt, church bells are ringing in Christian churches. And if we were to be almost in principle opponents of prayer, there would be an intolerance that promotes problems and conflicts between peoples in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e655	When it comes to noise, it's not my argument, it's been the government's argument. The government has dealt with this more after the noise problem than after the religious content of prayer opens. And the fact that Oslo from the minarites on the more than 20 mosques after every five times a day, for which they are going to apply, is to cry out that the disbelief children are to become fatherless, the faithless women are to become widows – and for Muslims they are disbelief according to the Koran the Christians and the Jews – has nothing to do with tolerance. We shall be tolerant, as Christianity advocates, but as Islam does not advocate. But putting conditions in such a way that we change our society is to be misunderstandingally tolerant. It is asking for serious problems in 20 to 30 years' time, instead of trying to prevent them from getting through having a firm attitude and establishing the values on which we are building this country, and that those who have come here will be able to adapt to our laws and regulations and practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e660	Does that mean that Carl I. Hagen believes that it would be entirely acceptable if, for example, Egypt or Syria began refusing to call churches with church bells in those countries because they do not accept it? Now I actually want to agree with Hagen in one thing, and that is that the government had a very unfortunate deal with this initially, because then the minister of the church had some of the same argument as Carl I. Hagen, but he got along. So I'll do another question. The representative Hagen believed that any Prime Minister candidate was almost obliged at any time to try to dismiss the Government. Now I believe that the most important thing is choice – that's where you actually decide what kind of big business we should have, and that's where we should also choose who should be prime minister. But I have come to realize that Carl I. Hagen and I now have something in common, since the government of the Advance Party has appointed Carl I. Hagen as Prime Minister's candidate. Then it is also the case that he has an obligation at any time to try to overthrow the central government. My impression is that he's doing the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e672	First to Muslim land and relation to church bells. I would like to be allowed to stress that there are quite a few of the Muslim countries that put significant obstacles in the way of those who are Christians, that is the persecution of Christians in many Muslim countries. But there's a difference between a ringing signal, a bell signal, and calling out a prayer. It's just the same thing that we've been trying to prevent in the CRL field at school, that it's going to be preaching. In addition to calling for the disbelief, that is, the Christians living in that land to become fatherless, it is an announcement that is called out of the miner’s rights. That's a pretty strong attitude. And then to the last: The difference between Prime Minister candidate Stoltenberg and Prime Minister candidate Hagen is that Hagen has not addressed the crushing criticism of the current government made by Prime Minister candidate Stoltenberg. That's the big difference. There is no reason why I should do anything before the 2001 elections, because I want the government sitting there to continue. But Stoltenberg has said the very opposite when he characterizes the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e679	The next replicator is Einar Steensnæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e683	I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Hagen as the Prime Minister's candidate for the Progress Party. Because the Progress Party is the second largest party in the country, I don't think it's unnatural. But now I understand that the Prime Minister's candidate also calls the Christian People's Party to the government table, and then I stunned several times. I was pleased with the Christian values that Carl I. Hagen now marked as the basis for his party and for the government he had to form in an uncertain future, but I would probably recommend Carl I. Hagen – if he is to speak to the mission people and to the Christian people – to take more interest in international justice, for the work done on the mission land, for the considerable aid that Norway contributes to, and where Carl I. Hagen's party has never contributed to the international solidarity that we consider so important, with the protection of weak groups and a fair distribution policy. In all these areas, the Christian groups and the mission people are very committed. Mr. Hagen's party has so far shown no commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e688	First of all, it is the future after 2001 that the Progress Party is concerned about. And we actually think that as there are several people who are somewhat concerned about weak minority governments, little predictability and lack of firmness, responsible politicians should also bear in mind in the long term that if the electoral process makes it possible, traditional bourgeois parties must be prepared to talk after a election if there is to be a majority of, for example, a majority of them. parties such as the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party – and the Left if necessary in order to have a majority. Then it would be natural for them to come together and explore the possibility of finding a political platform for a majority government. That's the key word for us -- majority government. That is what we have said that we are ready to take responsibility for participation in. It would create predictable relationships. It's something completely different than what we have when we have minority governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e695	I noticed that Hagen did not answer my question. I would like to be very specific, and ask: is this the case – since the Progress Party and Hagen now call the Christian People's Party any government cooperation – that the Progress Party has changed the course and has a completely different policy on aid work, on asylum and refugee policy, on environmental policy, on distribution policy, on the protection of vulnerable groups, on alcohol policy and on district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e700	I can answer clearly: we are developing our own policies, and we have no plans to change them in essential areas. Of course, we want our programme management, where this is going to be reviewed to see if it's still up to date, if there's any new information. But we have no plans to do so, and we do not expect other parties to have it either. As far as I am aware, the last time I negotiated were three parties at the Adult Inn, where everyone had to give and take. And we are concerned that in such negotiations one must give and take, based on the results of the elections, in other words that the small parties should not get as much through as the larger parties. That's democratic thinking. With regard to the previous question, which I was not able to answer, I find that we have different policies. But I find that this with ambiguity and convincing others about Christianity is something that has gradually been set aside in the Christian People's Party in terms of conditions in one's own country, and where one rather speaks tolerance and perhaps opens up to the greatest competitor, the Islamic religion. And we have bishops who also facilitate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e707	We have now been presented to the Party of Advances as a government party, and we heard a while ago that Carl I. Hagen at a meeting exhorted his party that being a party of governments required a somewhat different style, less exaggeration, or greater accountability, less populism. Then it becomes interesting to know from Hagen what changes we will be able to record when it comes – we will call it – alerted the shift in the Progress Party. What changes of a political nature and what changes in form can we expect? In what way will we in Stortinget be able to note, in the light of Hagen's admonition to the party traps, that the party of progress has now become a party of government – candidate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e712	I thought I'd be happy to say that Jacobsen was out a little early. [[muttering in the hall]] I don't think Jacobsen or anyone else is going to notice any difference, because in recent years the Progress Party has been acting very neatly, responsibly and seriously, and we will continue to do so. We're going to have the same clear speech, the same clear solutions, and sometimes even simple solutions. It's better with simple solutions that work than complicated solutions that don't work. But what I said, that's what I'm standing by. It's that we're also fully aware that if you're part of a government, a majority government, you can't implement your entire policy. Then one must also defend the parts through which other participating parties have to be allowed. I think it is important that the whole movement of the Progress Party, with more than 10 000 members and more than 1 000 elected representatives, is aware of the impact that a change could have on daily life. We will then also prepare them for that, and I hope that it will be met with praise from Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e719	The next replicator is Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e722	The new parliamentary leader of the Labour Party has been welcomed by the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, who believes it is time for the Workers' Party to take over the government power. Carl I. Hagen, for his part, has said that he expects the change of parliamentary leader to lead to more impact on progress party politics. It is possible that Hagen has taken inspiration from environmental policy, which has been Jens Stoltenberg's responsibility, because there the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have jointly found solutions to major issues, in confrontation with the environmental movement. It might have been tempting to ask after Hagen has heard Stoltenberg in today's debate, whether the desire for a change of government has increased, and whether he can specify the areas on which he expects the Progress Party to have a greater impact after the Workers' Party has changed its parliamentary leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e727	I have expressed the hope – the hope – that Jens Stoltenberg would modernise the Norwegian Workers' Party, in line with Prime Minister Blair's work party in England. Hope is probably considerably reduced in the last few days, and after what Stoltenberg has expressed today, it is further reduced. However, this has nothing to do with how we view government issues. We note that as Stortinget is compounded in this magnification period, we have no desire for any change in government. We in the Progress Party are well pleased that we have a government that loyally implements the decisions which the majority of the majority of the Grand Duchy may take on each case, regardless of which parties have voted in favour and against the decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e732	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e735	In our country yesterday, I was challenged by Reulf Steen to debate the following questions: «Isn't the time to gather around a common policy the ideological directions of our people expressed in the Christian-Social, Social-Democratic and Social-liberal way of thinking, respectively»? Today Jens Stoltenberg has come with a similar invitation, although I am still uncertain about the content and substance of the invitation. I understand Steen there that he believes that Christian democratic politics and social democracy have common points of contact that should be more widely dispersed in common policies, and perhaps also in common political initiatives. We can debate that, because there are important points of common concern. However, one of the challenges of such a debate is that in many areas the Labour Party still seems to be left in traditional social-democratic thinking and has not yet implemented the same degree of renewal as the sister party in England, which is the starting point for Steen's reflections. Instead of flexibility and individualization, the party likes to run an old-fashioned collective policy, such as us. have looked at the cash support case. Important management principles in environmental policy are being broken by the party's main spokespersons, under pressure from various interest groups. Yes, we experience that senior labour party politicians, who previously with commitment and conviction set up for the environment and sound resource management, suddenly turn around and become the most eager defenders of the opposite view. Instead of convergence to a common opinion on, for example: Family policy and environmental policy therefore choose the Workers' Party confrontation. Unfortunately, there will be little dialogue. We can look back on a century of significant material well-being and progress. At the beginning of a new century, we can see that government finances are in good shape. The government has successfully cooperated in income policy with the social partners and thus laid the foundations for a solid and stable national economy with good control of wage and price developments. Large groups of the population can expect further increases in living standards. This will also make it easier to target public instruments more closely against unmet needs in the provision of services and for those groups that have become lagging behind in the development of income and that may therefore have specific needs for Community assistance and support. The Minister of Health and the Minister of Social Affairs have done a very good job of investing in the extensive development of care, care and treatment services, but still considerable resource-intensive needs to be met. Then we must also facilitate the creation of values in society that can guarantee well-being and jobs. Stable framework conditions, commitment to education, research and information technologies are important prerequisites for success. This is in line with the government's own priorities. However, our wealth, our solid national economy and our high standard of living also impose a moral, solidarity commitment to contribute to alleviating poverty in developing countries. We must therefore complete the phasing-out plan for aid and implement the debt decommitment plan. The new century is facing major challenges, including the expectation of meeting new material needs. But perhaps the strongest and clearest challenges will be to provide room for Community values, for culture and for spiritual values. The challenge is not only to build Norwegian houses, but also to take care of the life between the houses. Norway is a good country to live in. We can do it even better by adding greater security, more human warmth and more humanity to society. We have a lot to be thankful for, but we also have a lot to deal with at the threshold of a new century.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e754	Today, the Centre and the Workers' Party say very nice things about each other in general; and then we disagree with the most relevant issues. I fully agree with Steensnæs that there is a lot of common thought between the centre and the Workers' Party, between the Christian thinking and the social-democratic thinking. This applies, for example: distribution, strong welfare systems and not least the international perspective – the poverty problem. But then I feel that you're a little lost in the center because the Workers' Party is going into a majority in one area, in energy policy, and gets an impact on what we're in for, that's using gas to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions. So they say that because the Workers' Party does that, we're destroying the cooperation in all the other areas. It's a logic I don't quite understand. I believe it must be possible to accept that, although there is a lot of common thinking in many important areas, there is also disagreement in some individual areas, such as: in parts of energy policy, and as such. on the cash support. But that should not prevent us from cooperating on everything we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e761	I fully agree with the latter. There are two things that make this problematic. One is that we have taken seriously the wording that the Workers' Party has laid down both in its own programme and in the background note that I have studied very carefully, and that was the basis of the Workers' Party's downgrading group when they went in for gas power plants. There are environmental principles that the centre parties very much agree with, and we cannot understand how one finds a logical relationship between these important environmental principles on the one hand and the decision to build these highly polluting gas power stations on the other. The second is that when the Workers' Party is going to pursue its policy, we fully accept that they express it in a position, but we are concerned that one does so in such a way that it does not create doubt, that the Workers' Party has an underlying agenda that is not about environmental policy, which is not about gas power stations, but is about who is going to govern the country. That is where there is serious doubt, because we do not find credibility and coherence in the Workers' Party's reasoning and attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e766	The working party has no underlying agenda. We have one agenda, and that is to have a majority of our policies in an important area for us, where we believe that our solution is significantly more environmentally friendly than the government's solution. Therefore, there is full consistency between our environmental principles and the concrete proposals we have. Because the government's option is not CO2-free gas power, we don't know when we get it. The government's options, as stated in the Energy message, are more imports. The notification also does not mention CO2-free gas power in a single word, at least not bet on it. Before that, I believe that there would be an advantage if the centre parties soon stopped interpreting our decisions. It's like there's been a majority and a minority in the Workers' Party. The minority have been reluctant to initiate the construction of gas power plants. It voted against these decisions that you think actually say no to the majority that said yes to. I think you should concentrate on your own decisions and policies, and then leave it to the Workers' Party to explain what is meant by our decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e773	The problem with the Workers' Party's position is how to implement this – to choose the shape of the setting. Stoltenberg knows very well that there is no economics and basis for building any gas power plant today. No company based on its business on a commercial basis, i.e. on an economically sound operation, will today initiate the construction of a gas power plant. Therefore, we do not understand the urgency of the Workers' Party in detail to instruct the Government, point by point, how this is to be implemented. In our view, we have time to wait for new environmentally friendly technology to be available, so that the day it is commercially possible to build a gas power plant, we have technology that makes gas power plants not having the problems that Jens Stoltenberg, Workers' Party, Right and Advance will build.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e778	I hear Steensnæs reacts to the form of the proposals put in by the Workers' Party. The main point there is that we would have had a much simpler situation if the government had been a little more responsive and a little more humble. For the Government, a decision was taken in June last year, when gas power plants were actually being stopped and a management decision was taken that was contrary to the will of the majority of the population. If you had been a little more cooperative at the time and listened to Stortinget, and at least postponed the decision to Stortinget had dealt with the energy message, the shape and harmony could be much better here now. So it's you who put you on a very offensive line. You can do that if you have a majority, but when you have a minority, you should be busy listening to the Storting. And the government didn't. We like to cooperate, we like to talk to you, but it's the government that's put on a rather offensive line in a case where it knew it had minorities in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e783	I understand that there is a certain wound going out and going about the ministry's handling of the property over the emissions permit from January. The basis for that wound will probably be different opinions about. There, Mr Stoltenberg has a dialogue with the Minister for the Environment. I'm not going to put myself in it. But is it so to understand that the Workers' Party has now closed the book for the common understanding one could have had in January 1999? We are willing to turn the clock back to January 1999, using as a starting point the press release that Jens Stoltenberg sent out in January 1999 – I must again be allowed to refer to it – where he said this was a sensible environmental measure in line with the objectives of the Workers' Party, in line with international climate agreements. If there may be a basis for dialogue, the Centre Parties are prepared to enter into such a dialogue when it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e790	The next replicator is Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e793	I'd like to continue the lineword shift from what Einar Steensnæs took up when it comes to the view of misioners and Christianity. In an open letter to the Government and the party groups of the Stortinge, 100 named church leaders write among others. the following: «We believe that Norway will not be served with the emergence of Islam, but that as a nation we take care of our Christian heritage with the gospel in the centre. This heritage also guarantees the God - given freedom that every human being has through an independent and free will. The fact that there are often several places associated with the Muslim Friday prayers is asked that ‘The infidels’ children should become fatherless. The infidel women shall become widows.» [[The disbelief, according to the Koran, is Christian and Jewish.]] My question is, what has happened to the Christian People's Party, which defends saying yes to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e809	First of all, let me say that these prayer openings are not a test of religious freedom in Norway. I never meant that. I see it more as an expression of the liberality, tolerance and tradition we have had for respect for different believers and thinking, that we allow them to call for worship in the same way that we as Christians do it in our churches on Sunday. I think I should also be able to pattern some signatures in relation to engaged missionary friends and Christians. I won't name them here, but there are considerable mission leaders and Christian leaders who would have expressed themselves differently about this. But what I respect and fully support in it is the desire for God's Word to find room in the Norwegian people, and for laws and arrangements to be free from Christian congregations, organizations, and organizations, in order for God's Word to come about. But on the specific question, there are different assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e818	I would like to get Einar Steensnæs to explain whether he thinks you can compare a church bell, which is an audio signal, with the active calling out preaching prayers, which are also the condemnation of Christians. Is it really the case that an audio signal is the same as an active condemnation of people of a different faith? Is it comparable? And when the Government, with some form of support from the Storting, set down a value commission, was the intention of the Value Commission to become a wholly ordinary political body with viewers of general political problems? Was it not the case that this Commission was to work to strengthen the Christian basis of values in Norwegian society? And is Steensnæs satisfied with the result?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e824	I believe, sir. Hagen shall be a little careful in putting on an authority in relation to interpreting the contents of the beans open. The condemnation to which he refers, I will not go well. Now it is possible that Mr. Hagen is better educated in Arabic than I am, but to me, the beans don't have a message like Hagen puts in this. I've studied what these beans are, I know what the Norwegian translation is. I can't see that there's a basis for that kind of characteristic, which I also see as problematic in relation to having respect for different believers and thinking. In my opinion, the beans are more equal to what we use our church bells to when we call the service Sunday morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e833	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e836	After listening to this debate, I must say that I believe that the Stortinget has shown the substance of a rather assorted political land trade. And although I am aware that there has been a certain dream for some people behind this debate, that we should have a debate that is not to govern the debate leaders of the TV channels, I must honestly say that I am actually beginning to miss some of the debate leaders of the TV channels after hearing how things have gone East and West in this debate. I think maybe some of the points and what we should focus on were one of the estimates that the Prime Minister also made in his introduction, namely an attempt to look at the more fundamental challenges we face. I think one of our most important challenges is simply how we're going to deal with Norway's pound, Norway's lot, in a world of hard change, where it's always up to the challenge maybe the most important thing. It is true that a concept has now been introduced in Norwegian debate, which is almost unsaleable, but the content is correct – it is so-called change competence, that it is society's ability to change that will govern whether this society in a few years' time is a safe and good society for all of us. And then the question is, what do we do to make society change so that it becomes safe and sound in five, ten, and fifteen years? Then there's a lot of clear grip we have to take. One of them, and that has been a concern in several of the lines, is that there needs to be a more offensive school and education policy. I must admit that in these areas both the Prime Minister and Jens Stoltenberg have disappointed me, although Jens Stoltenberg may have suggested a slight change on one important point, but it remains to be seen what this is going to be in practice. But I must say that as defensive as the government approaches these questions, we cannot continue to do so. A good school standard is the key to this society's ability to cope with rapid changes. Another important element is that we need to convert the public sector. It was an area that was completely lost in the Prime Minister's posts, and there was not much of an answer to the point I got from Jens Stoltenberg either. But if we're going to get the necessary resources for the very core tasks we're facing, for example. school and education or older people and health, quite fundamental changes in general government are necessary. Then we have to be willing to settle with some of the special interests that are now preventing such conversions. A third element is that we must pursue a policy of entrepreneurs in a completely different offensive way. It also means action in the field of fiscal policy. In that area, I share the disappointment that Hagen expressed – the hopes that Jens Stoltenberg might lead a new line in the Labour Party's policy, it is not as easy to maintain after a debate like this. But there is a need for change here. It's not that we can treasure ourselves for wealth in this country. The fourth element is using the resources that are in society — the natural resources — and here, of course, lies the entire gas power debate that we have now had. It has led here to a rather strange debate on positioning, and I have noticed that the government is sending its bans in every direction. Odd Roger Enoksen has threatened the Workers' Party with isolation if you vote in favour of the majority that seems to be deciding, and Valgerd Svarstad Haugland has threatened the Right with isolation. But it's clear that if 42 representatives in Stortinget are going to isolate 123, you're going to get a little bit of a problem. The reality is that the majority position has been announced for a long time, the government's problem is that it woke up barely 14 days ago. Culture is an important prerequisite, and at that point I want to commend the Prime Minister for what he said in this area. But I give it as a compliment, because I have to say that what he has said about cooperation, yes, it must be a disappointment to bourgeois voters. It is the case that the Adult Declaration is now well on its way – that is what the Prime Minister himself said – that political replenishment is needed. I believe that civil electors are now waiting for initiative. I took an initiative myself on the election night in the fall that we should talk on the non-socialist side. However, if it is the case that the representatives of the government parties, for example: Electiond Svarstad Haugland, appeals to the Right and talks about the further perspectives, yes, the government parties must also follow up. And that's serious – it's not long again!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e853	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e856	The right is very much involved in the matter that most people are concerned about during the day. It has now become known that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has obtained a legal opinion that is supported by Naturkraft – a legal opinion dealing with constitutional matters. I don't know if Petersen is comfortable with that natural force paying such a consideration, but I'm most concerned about the issue of transparency, because it's obvious that the majority of the committee has refused other transparency in this report. And that's actually a little bit of a sensational, when someone knows what criticism has been raised from the same team when it comes to transparency. My question to the Right's parliamentary leader is brief and good: can the Right's parliamentary leader envisage taking an initiative and instructing his members in the Committee that this report should now be transparent and transparent?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e863	This was also a matter of having a conversation between parliamentary leaders on the major issues for the future of the country! That's right, as Jacobsen says -- we haven't just been involved in the gas power question, that's our Document No. 8-proposals that have been within almost a year, which are the very foundation of this matter. The matter that Jacobsen now mentions, I have to admit that I am well aware of the press, but I understand that the force of nature has produced a report, and that the force of nature, like many others, has been in the committee to explain its positions and has a basis for its positions. If I haven't misunderstood everything, then it's natural force's own statement this is about, so I think maybe Jacobsen will get in touch with those who have the ownership of this paper. I don't intend to go to the desk to Johan J. Jakobsen to pick up case papers when it needs to be. I think we're all getting input from people who want to influence us, and of course we have a relationship with them, and if Jacobsen wants to figure out what it says, he'll probably be able to find out by turning to Natural Power.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e872	I'm going to take the invitation from Jan Petersen to ask a serious question about something that has to do with long-term development – and in his favorite area, school. What is the reason why the Right, who is talking about the need for flexibility in school, yesterday in Stortinget, voted against a proposal from the Progress Party to introduce an opportunity for higher pay for skilled teachers, a greater degree of flexible career paths in school to attract and retain skilled teachers and to change these systems? And why did the Right then vote against a while ago when talking about having competition into school – the dynamic tool that competition is – against new private schools getting the same financial support as the public schools get, and voted against opening up good schools without requiring them to have a different religious or pedagogical basis than what is common but simply organised business differently? Why does the right vote against what they are for later in the public debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e879	It was a peculiar statement, to talk about that later on that we're for. We've been very clear about what we're for in school policy, we have quite defined desires, and, as Hagen probably knows, we put forward a letter called '21 Steps towards a school for the 21st century', which was 21 completely concrete, important questions about the future of school. In terms of the pay question itself, which Hagen was now concerned about, the answer to that is very simple. The pay question itself is one of the main elements of the Government’s teacher recruitment plan, i.e. it should have been, and therefore that question will be addressed primarily there. But it is clear that there is also a delicate balance between what the Grand Duchy as a legislative assembly is going to impose and what the social partners are going to agree on. But we are very clear about what we want, and Hagen will have the full opportunity to address these issues when that matter comes to consideration for the next week – if I do not remember correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e886	The next replicator is Einar Steensnæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e889	I almost took the word to correct what is called a manifest misunderstanding, if Jan Petersen were to think that we had in some way intended to isolate the Right in Norwegian politics. On the contrary, we have a strong desire for close cooperation with the Right on a number of important issues. We have also agreed – at least as I have been and led – with the Right on important issues, I can only remind you of the important cash support case. That's not what this is about. It is about whether the Right on specified conditions contributes to the fact that the Government currently sitting is forced to resign. At the same time, one should not expect an invitation to join in the next round on a government option. I can't, sir. Petersen thinks, and I just want to confirm that he of course agrees with me in such a description.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e894	The general observation is that no party should believe that they will be able to go to the elections over a longer period of time to be a persecuted non-obligation. It is clear that it is very important to look ahead in Norwegian policy and try to create alliances. What can happen now, of course, is that the government itself chooses to put hard on hard, that's what it's all about – whether the government itself will choose to put hard on hard. But then I assume that the government itself has chosen to take that consequence. But it must not make the government and government parties think it has nothing more to do. Then it has to look forward to: what can create a basis for cooperation? Not least the three government parties themselves will be served. For us, this gas power issue is about a very simple thing: to achieve a political position that is close to us and that we have taken the initiative, a proposal that has been there for a whole year. We don't have an outside agenda beyond this, but I have to say that the government parties have not exactly made it easy to deviate from this which is our conviction, and consequently it is quite right, namely that when we have the chance to realise an important position within the Right Program, yes, we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e902	The last line is from Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e905	Many are disappointed with the lack of environmental exposure to the Right, and it also had no prominent place in today's posts from Jan Petersen. But I register that Young Right and Willoch are on the field, and I wonder why either you have to be a member of the party's youth organisation or you have to be a retired person to join the environmental offensive that Left would like to be part of. The right is strongly involved in the construction of gaseous power plants and a desire to permit construction without requiring CO2 emissions. This means that one allows the burden of meeting the Kyoto commitments to be shifted to other enterprises and to the transport industry. What has Jan Petersen intended to say to these companies and to the transport industry as the reason why they should bear the burden of being free of charge for gas power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e912	To be honest, if Kvassheim hasn't heard that I've been talking about environmental issues several times today, he won't follow along well enough. I have just pointed out that the position of the Government and Kvassheim is not an environmental position. What you do is you think you can put almost some kind of boundary around the country, and that the only interesting thing is what happens in this country. The position Kvassheim and the Government stand for is that it is perfectly right to import highly polluting coal power from Denmark, that it is perfectly right to export gas downwards in Europe, and then to re-import it back in the form of electricity. The position that the Government stands for is not an environmental position, one is caught by one's own rhetoric. Yes, you are so blinded by the reflection of your good rhetoric that you can't even see what the reality is. I want to encourage Kvassheim to take environmental arguments in the gas power issue more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e917	That's when the line change was over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e920	Most people have gotten better, said Stoltenberg. The state of the empire is good, said the prime minister. I think all the parties that are represented on the Storting must agree on both of these statements, although there are still many challenges and many unsolved tasks in our society. In cooperation with the parties in the Stortinget, the central government has the power to stabilise the Norwegian economy following the dramatic fall in oil prices in 1998 and the crisis trends in the international economy. The IMF, the International Monetary Fund, has described this process in a recent report as a «comprehensible», «in stark contrast to many European countries», «Impressive economic consolidation» – to quote directly from this report. A minority government cannot only take credit for a successful economic stabilisation policy. In the autumn of 1998 it was the Progress Party and the Right that took joint responsibility; in 1999 it was the Workers' Party. This is how the independent cooperation line of the central government has been demonstrated. Although the opposition parties claim the opposite, after two and a half years the government's political accounts show that the centre parties have had an impact on a number of important issues. In this context, it might be worth remembering that 99.6 pst. – 99.6 pst. – by the current annual draft budget of the central government, the budget process of the Stortinget survived. The Prime Minister, in his statement, stressed the policy of distribution and mentioned in this connection the Cohesion Communication which is now being discussed in the United Kingdom. And the government has already proposed measures that help balance some of the documented differences. An analysis by the Statistical Centre shows that 330,000 pensioners have received a significant increase in income as a result of the increase in the minimum pension of NOK 12 000 per year, an income promise for which there was initially no majority in the Storting. The Workers' Party has expressed their desire to cooperate with the Centre on the major welfare tasks to be solved in the coming years. In the Centre Party, we hope to see the impact of the cohesion strategy that is just in the cohesion message that Jens Stoltenberg also mentioned in his contribution, a balancing strategy that can be summarised as: better public services, a more fine-tuned safety net, a more social housing structure and a fairer taxation. The government has set itself high targets in terms of district policy. One shall be careful to claim that it is only the Government's more offensive policy towards District Norway that has led to a reduction of the flow from the edges to the central strata of the country by nearly 20 pst. since the acquisition of the central government. However, the claim that centralisation continues with unreduced strength after the government change is at least a clearly incorrect claim. The government’s commitment to marine research, to the development of nationwide IT services and the establishment of so-called business areas are examples of measures that have led to belief that the relocation flow can be further mitigated. The Labour Party has said that they will cooperate with the Centre on the major and important welfare tasks of society. Imagine if the Workers' Party would have adopted the same position on environmental policy! But in the case of gas power, the party chooses other alliance partners, who want to meet the Kyoto commitments by investing in a technology that will be guaranteed in a few years' time. I hope, however, that the Workers' Party will be involved in a targeted effort on new environmentally friendly gas technology, as the centre parts go in. On the day it is commercially possible to build new gas power plants, Norway should have the ambition to be the leading country in terms of new environmentally friendly technologies. Claiming, as the Labour Party does, that there is a commitment to polluting technologies and CO2 emissions to promote the development of such environmentally friendly technologies is short and well not credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e942	There is a bit of sympathy for the Norwegian political debate – I think a lot of people agree with SV in that – and that is a rush, that is. 165, good adult people, well paid people, generally have one common sport, and that's to make sure to put jaws in the wheels for it at all times sitting government. SV believes that there is an alarming need for a firm majority in Norwegian policy. Market forces have so much to do with every country's economy that if a big deal, the elected people, the most trusted of the Norwegian people, has as much short-sightedness as the market forces, there will be very little scope for governance. There's a wave of mergers all over the world that's never been bigger. Large, giant multinationals buy up smaller companies, important skills jobs move from many smaller countries into large groups and are centralised. In such a situation, therefore, the country's foremost trusted advice is not to waste so much energy on just creating trouble and putting bone hooks. But it's not like SV wants a fixed majority constellation no matter what the majority constellation it might be. We have a strong wish: Parker Right and especially Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party outside influence over Norwegian politics. We'll be running a long-term car park at Carl I. Hagen anytime. There is no reason why the sitting government or the Workers' Party in opposition should make their hosts green for Carl I. Hagen every other time. Do the representatives know what the Progress Party believes? The progress party believes that the climate problems are something that SV has found on a bad day, just to bother them a little, to make them feel a little guilty. They rely on the oil companies in their environmental policies, and believe that since it has not been proven that the storms around Europe at Christmastime are due to the climate problems, we should wait a 20-year period to establish it – because that is too late! That's point one. Point 2 is that we want a majority that can do something about the long-term questions where you need a bet, for example. in the field of school policy. Now it's flying around words here about how important school is. But no one knows how important the school is until we get to the budget for the harvest. The size has taken a large-scale investment in research. No one knows how important research is until we get well in the autumn. That's when the budget is going to be settled, and then the majority might be quite different, and it won't be any of that either. In all celebrations, a majority of the parties in the Stortinget talk about knowledge, competence and school – is the majority aware of what is happening around the municipalities these days? 10 billion kroner is going to go into deficit in the municipal sector. What's happening around the municipalities is that they're pinching the school budgets. Our sweet, little, hopeful who is going to pay our pensions, they're the ones that have the worst standard. And the difference in standard, between what they meet in public school and what they're used to privately, increases, and we parents are not going to sit and find us in it. Those who realize that they don't get through the political system to bet on what's most important, they're going to take care of themselves. Then one of the real foundations of a society that would give equal opportunities to everyone is threatened. So those who want to pursue environmental policies cannot ally with the right-hand side of Norwegian policy. Is it not crazy that what has become the main focus of an energy message is questions about gas power plants and not the fact that the Norwegian normal consumer uses approx. three times as much electricity as a Danish and twice as much as a Swedish? After all, consumption is our big problem. We're not going to be able to cover the consumption that we're going to have, if we don't do anything to save, and it's profitable business policy, knowledge policy and forward-looking as well. In contrast to the Prime Minister, SV takes a keen interest in life. We look forward to the next elections. SV has no faith that we can participate in a majority constellation without the voters giving us the strength to do so. But we have some very high-end argument, and they're like this: a lot of the Workers' Party's voters and many of the Centre's voters want to cooperate more closely with SV about the things we stand for. At the next election – if nothing happens within that time – we can say to the Labour Party voters who want to cooperate with us: Yes, but then you have to vote on SV, if you can't get Hedstrom, you can get Right, you can get the Christian People's Party, and so can we say to the Center.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e959	That's when the time was up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e962	We have set behind us a century that was marked by a strong desire and a strong will to raise our eyes and find solutions that could carry forward over a long period of time, and there was expressed hope that together we could take new and forward-looking action. Then we came to the first major test – the design of the energy policy of the future – and then we see that there is a great danger that we may be in trouble, that we can choose the solutions that belong to the past. In the case of the gas power debate, there are two possible tracks. If the politicians want to, they can both come forward at the same time. One track is what the Workers' Party and the Right have merged to allow the construction of polluting gas power plants without requiring CO2 cleaning before 2008. It hampers the development of new technologies, there is no guarantee of less imports of coal power, and it shifts the burden, by fulfilling the Kyoto agreement, from gas power stations and to other actors, industries, businesses and transport. The second possible step is to establish that we are facing a crossroads in our energy policy of making a choice that lasts for decades. The choice is that instead of subsidising free CO2 emissions, we will create the framework conditions so that it becomes more profitable to build clean gas power stations. It is fully possible and the cost of it is no greater than that of allowing free CO2 emissions. The benefits are also high in the environmental field. And in addition to being able to produce clean energy, we will help to develop new technologies that can be used in a number of other areas, and that can become an export article of importance. It is this challenge we are facing – not just an isolated energy issue, but a choice whether to have the forward-looking solutions based on technology development. The Energy and Environment Committee has recently been in the Netherlands and Ireland. We visited gas power plants there. We experienced that they said that they were pushing ahead with questions about how they would handle the CO2 emissions, and that they would deal with them via allowances. That means that those who believe that trading on allowances is going to be an easy and cheap solution are going to be wrong. Norway will have to fight about expensive quotas, a scarce asset. If we focus on clean technology now and develop gas power plants that do not depend on CO2 emissions, Norway will gain a competitive advantage by not entering the Kyoto system with the ballast it will be to have large emissions to be incorporated into this system. So it's not only a technological competitive advantage we can get, but also an advantage in terms of quota trading, to a great deal of joy for other activities in our country that depend entirely on getting a quota system to go on. I believe that on the day our community sees that the majority's gas power policy is also a threat to jobs in many parts of Norway, we will have a new dimension in this debate with which the Right and the Workers' Party will have problems. Sustainable and innovative are key to Left's policy. This also applies to our industrial policy in other areas. That is why it is very satisfactory that the Prime Minister places such emphasis on the need for change and innovation in his speech. He points to the IT industries, and he points to fishing and aquaculture. These possibilities need to be put into practice, but re-allocation of instruments requires that we move resources from areas where we have traditionally invested into new areas. It's a painful process, and it's part of the explanation of Jens Stoltenberg's aggression towards Left's industrial policy and our tax policy in relation to business. We want to move from those we've been basing ourselves on, to those we're going to base ourselves on when it comes to business policy. What I had hoped we could pay attention to in the debate we have had today were these long lines and the great choices we are facing, and instead we have lost ourselves in prayer – at least in parts of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e975	Then Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik gets the final word, and he has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e978	There has necessarily been some debate on gas power plants today. Jens Stoltenberg is not missing the fact that he has turned around in relation to his statements one year ago – he was pleased with SFT’s strict emission requirements for gas power plants, now he will actually cancel them. He refers to the NVE's statement. It was released before Kyoto and provided that gas power plants did not lead to an increase in energy consumption. Now we see that there's going to be an increase in energy consumption. No, the course has changed around, and then there is of course reason to wonder what had to be behind it. The working party has obviously lifted the requirement for an election result of 36,9 pst. to be in government during this period. Stoltenberg was concerned with a broad parliamentary basis for a government, but we have not been given any explanation in the debate at all – although Stoltenberg is challenged, several times – of the broad parliamentary basis he sees, nor has anyone agreed on such a basis. So his government options are highly uncertain in relation to his own demands. I have also not registered any batches that have expressed a direct desire for a new government. Stoltenberg has obviously learned a list of issues where the government has not got through, and he keeps repeating it. At the end of the debate I will not provoke by mentioning the long list of defeats the last working party governments had, but I repeat: the central government stands well in comparison with the governments of Stoltenberg himself put in. As an additional indication, I can mention that in the case of the law here in the house, Professor Trond Nordby, who is conducting statistics on this, has shown that several legislative proposals were changed here in the Storting in the last years of Labour Party rule than has been the case during the central government. Finally, the new parliamentary leader of the Labour Party says that he is in favour of cooperation with the Centre, but what he does during the day in major, important matters actually bears witness to something else, where he has committed himself to the Advance Party and the Right respectively. I hope he does not have the attitude of the Labour Party's main spokesman on the gas power issue, who has said that he would like a compromise, but then the centre must be at the very top of the Workers' Party's position. If there are such pointless attitudes that underlie the interdependence, it becomes revealing. Of course, this does not involve cooperation. But I still hope it is possible to establish constructive cooperation on both energy policy and other issues. I put in the introduction the emphasis on the future: what are we going to live on after the oil age? The debate quickly left these important issues and, as Jan Petersen rightly said, became a sort of assorted land trade. But I might end positively and take it as an expression that the long-term guidelines I gave in my introduction have broad support in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e993	Before we think we're done with case no. 2, the President will propose that the Prime Minister’s political statement be annexed to the minutes – and this is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23-2.ana.ud2039e1002	There is no record.
