ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e42	The representative, Erik Solheim, has been informed that he has taken up his position in the EEAS from 1 April 2000. This communication shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Lisbet Rughtvedt, has taken office as a representative. The representative of Gunnar Schaug is informed that he is withdrawing the granted permit application for the days 4 and 5 April. This notice shall be taken into account. The representatives Sverre Myrli and Arne Lyngstad, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the West-Agder counties: Anne Berit Andersen For Hedmark County: Anne Christel Johnsgaard For the provinces of Hordaland: Kari Sørheim and Terje Søviknes For the Nordic region: Bears Olsen For Uppland State: Terje Stenseng For the Rogaland County: Toril Haaland Horpestad and Helga Rullestad For Sogn and Fjordane County: Håkon Giil For the Vestfold counties: Harald Solberg The requested alternate of Oslo, Ann Kathrine Tornås, has an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Lars Rises leave on 4 and 5 April, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternates of Oslo, Anne Elisabeth Naper, are invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Anne Elisabeth Naper is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Lars Rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e127	The representative Lars Sponheim submitted an application for welfare leave on 4 and 5 April. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Harald Hove, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e145	Harald Hove and Anne Elisabeth Naper are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 31 March 2000: ‘State Secretary Fatma Bhanzi Jonge is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The following are appointed State Secretaries: Group editor Jan Erik Larsen, Prime Minister's office Lagdomr Ellen Mo, Ministry of Finance from 3 April 2000 Equality Ombudsman Anne Lise Ryel, Ministry of Justice and Police Director Sverre Bugge, Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs Health and Social Director Lars Erik Flatø, Ministry of Social Affairs and Health The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e170	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e175	I have the exquisite pleasure of proposing Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e180	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available and the Kjell Engebretsen shall be deemed unanimously elected as vice-president.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e192	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time be set at 10 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e195	At present, the Storting shall decide whether to set up an investigation commission with a mandate to conduct a wide-ranging review of the investigation, planning, design and development of the new main aerodrome of East and Gardermobanen. The reason why the Storting has this issue for consideration today is the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee on the Riksrevisions Report, Document No. 3:10 for 1997-98, where it is concluded that St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92 did not give a comprehensive picture of the uncertainty of the project. Even now, it is important to note that an expected majority here in Stortinget is not prepared at this stage to finalise this comprehensive construction project, so representatives from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, with the support of the Centre Party and the Left, will recommend that a review commission be appointed to review the matter. In this context, a Document No will be submitted. 8-proposal for the establishment of an investigation commission based on the obligation to attend and witness to the Commission. Therefore, on this basis, I do not consider that there is a need to address the specificities of the case or the points of view that exist from various investigations and in response to the hearing. Today we are not dealing with the totality of the Gardermo project, but the question of whether we should now set up an investigation commission. The majority in the United Kingdom believe that there is a need for further — and more systematic — investigation in the hope of completing this significant development case. St. pp. No 90 is the basic document of the National Audit Office’s investigations, which states: ‘The aim of the Riksrevision study has been to assess whether the Ministry of Transport has provided the Stortinget with accurate and sufficient information on the operational profitability and uncertainty of the projects.’ Here we are at the very core – whether Stortinget has been properly and adequately informed about the Gardermo project. The Committee wanted to do a thorough work on the report. That was why the Committee considered it necessary to hold open consultations on the matter. Through these consultations, the case has been brought to light from many points of view. Consultations have revealed conflicting views on key issues among those actors who have had a primary responsibility for the implementation of the project. Both in relation to the implementation of the project and in relation to the information provided to the Stortinget, there are important open questions. For example, the total costs of the defence may be mentioned, which remain unresolved. In the case of the Gardermoban there are several costs that have not been included, which have naturally led to a too positive picture of the business estimate of this project. Environmental analyses and technical calculations have also not been adequately elucidated in St.prp. 90, and one must in retrospect note that basic studies related to the construction of the Gardermobanen are not mentioned either in St.prp. 90 or the NSB's main report. Both the National Audit Office’s investigations and the Mydske Committee’s evaluations have revealed weaknesses in the information on which the Stortinget based its decision in the development of the Gardermo project. The criticism from the Mudsk Committee on the Gardermoban is strong, as most of the factors that have contributed to the fact that the Gardermoban has not become as profitable as foreseen in St.prp. No 90, should have been revealed at the level stage and thus presented to Stortinget before the decision was taken. The majority, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left, will have a clarification on these issues before the matter is settled, and so they want to have an external investigation carried out that can give greater credibility to the final result of the Storting's treatment of the Gardermo project. These lots believe that the Storting itself does not have sufficient apparatus to carry out this investigation. The investigation commission will be set up in accordance with the same pattern as previously designated collapse commissions. This will include, inter alia: be rules for attendance and witness obligations in closed meetings. Those who are most dubious and suspicious in this case are also, in my opinion, well served by a thorough investigation to complete, if possible, this significant construction case with such a long history and a very complex investigation. There have been significant shared views within the Committee on the appointment of a review committee. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, by the double vote of the Chairman, refers to the significant documentation known to the Committee in its work on the matter and wishes to close the case now. Today’s legislation may criticise or, where appropriate, challenge national law against the State Council(s) which have provided misleading or deficient information. The Progress Party is so far alone in considering the establishment of a Protocol Committee capable of preparing national law. There is a need to improve the procedures for ensuring greater quality of decision-making on the basis of the size of major projects. The Gardermo project, especially the Gardermoban, is a regrettablely poorly developed project, of some described as a pre-project, with significant economic and technical shortcomings – wild or unforeseen. The proposal to allow the case to be dealt with by an investigation commission must not lead to an undue delay in the final investigation. That is why the time limit for 1 January 2001 has been set in this case, so that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee can finalise the development of the Gardermo project during this large-scale period. I take up the proposal of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, and I also assume that the Centre Party and the Left will join in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e230	Odd Holten has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e235	The story of the new main airfield and the Gardermoban is full of drama, and the political game is constantly reaching new heights. There are not many things that have had so much political drama and confusion in themselves as just this matter. Already in 1992 it was described in the media as the longest fight and the longest farce in Norwegian history. I heard at the Political Quarter today the representative Holten said that there had been people who would like to enter his office and tell things they would not say in open consultation. I hope the case rapporteur does not believe that this sort of thing should govern the control activities of the Storting, because there is no lack of speculation, suspicions and conspiracy in this matter, but we cannot allow ourselves to be guided by statements from people outside this house. Then I would like to remind you of the fact that former Minister of Transport Dørum and former Minister of Transport Fjærvoll, from the time of the Bondevik government, is fully in agreement with former Minister of Transport Opseth that Stortinget was given the information it needed to make a decision in 1992. And when national law is suggested, it is at least not rejected by the representative Holten, I would like to ask if he understands that more representatives from the Bondevik government are going to be witnesses to that matter and be fully in line with Opseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e242	Yes, now I dare not stand by the exact wording that the representative Husøy affected here, that it was almost understandable that people came into my office and told me things. I don't think it was said on this morning broadcast. But what I think we can agree on is that in the very open hearing it was among other things. a strong statement by the former Managing Director of the NSB, Rambjør, who clearly stated that he did not wish to go into the depths of open consultation, but he had the opportunity to come back with new information at any closed meeting. To what goes on in the confidence of the studies conducted by the Bondevik government at the Dørum Council of State, it is clear that what we are considering here is that we want to go deep, we want to go back to 1988, and that it is those who have had this project to do in the time period that we are set to review. And it's clear that we can't do it that way that we're already drawing the conclusion that we're not willing to go further in such a case, if this investigation commission shows that it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e249	The rapporteur wants a thorough effort to improve the credibility of this. That means that the work that the Riksrevision, the Mudske-committee, plus various other selections and the control committee have done, has no credibility, has no thoroughness. Because what might become a majority in this room today, wants to be examined, is everything – everything! There are, like, no points left, where you say that you have to go into it more closely – they have to take the whole feeling! It means a direct under-recognition of the work that has been done. And so far, when I read the minutes from the control committee, I can see that it might not create so much credibility forever, because the expertise was not too great. But the fact that you can't draw any conclusions is quite amazing, and then you might find out, what's left? So you say you shouldn't go into reality, you're going to discuss research here. Yes, how can one justify the need for scrutiny, and possibly reject it, if one does not go into the facts of the matter? For what stands in this position from the minority – which unfortunately may become a majority today – who want to investigate – is a number of things that will be easy to answer. For example, it is stated that claims have been made that it should have been a matter of course to have equivalent, proven alternatives to compare the main airport on the Gardermoen with. If so, of course, why did the Christian People's Party go against it in everyone – everyone – voting about it? They've never wanted an equivalent alternative to compare to. If it had been desirable, and of course, why didn't the representative Holten, who was in the Stortinget, and his party argue for it when it was a matter? And then they say that the split solution was special! Yes, what was the Christian People's Party in favour of? – Shared solution especially! Here was a political case, and a number of the things that are being promoted here claim that no answer has been received, were answered eight years ago, and ten years ago, among other things. by the representative of Holten. Does he have no memory?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e256	No, of course, me and the majority in Stortinget – hopefully, I get to say – do not condone the considerable work carried out by very many groups in this process. But we now want to try to go on and put all the things under the spotlight again, so that there should not be a restriction on the review to be carried out with retroactive effect until 1988. And that's because, for example, when we get there. in the open hearings, it is now fairly clear, for example: from Roald, who says that the geology in the sports of Rome was known, the sealing work was too bad, it was unnecessary to get the sentences that we are now witnessing have come to the Hellerud area, and the major environmental damage that has occurred in the Puttjern and Lutvann area, that there were decisions that had been made when it came to the expansion of the Gardermobanan considered something like a fore project, and there is a kind of opinion that we believe is so serious and so central that it is the basis for looking further at it. When we also see it in the context of what the Mydske Committee says, which actually suggests that there may be a strategic budgeting in the overall project, and we have also been reviewed the economic analyses relating to the business economics of the Gardermoban, I do not doubt that there is a need to get even deeper into the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e261	I think it is alarming that the rapporteur uses statements from Rambjør to justify a commission of inquiry. What was alarming about what Rambjør said in the hearings was that Lars Gunnar Lie, as Minister of Transport, had promised that the NSB would turn into an AS, and that it was in a way an employment that happened on false premises. That's how I understood Rambjør in that hearing. It is true that there are many serious claims that have been raised in this matter and that have been there for decades. But it's not that the Storting has to take serious claims seriously. I would also like to remind you that, in the case of the sport of Rome, we know enough to place political responsibility. We know enough to be able to conclude on what went wrong in Rome. It has been mentioned in the newspapers and TV that the decision to build the Gardermoban was taken informally by some, and that the Stortinget was directed against Gardermoen. These are rather dubious claims, as I can read from the bulk documents what happened, even though we have read in the evening post that both the Progress Party and the Right agreed on such claims. Will the representative Holten refute that this is the basis for setting up an investigation commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e272	Now the representative, Inger Lise Husøy, is in the midst of very difficult questions of reality related to the matter we are dealing with. As I was in my post, I believe that there is no basis for it, the committee has not worked on these details. What we believe is the basis for appointing a commission of inquiry is contained in the document. So we want – and I think in particular that there is a need – an external investigation that can give greater credibility to the final result related to the Stortinge's treatment of the Gardermo project. What is very important to me is to get to know if the Stortinge managed to get the information you needed in order to carry out such a significant construction project. And of course, when I mentioned Rambjør, he's just one of several who's been to the hearing. That in the case he was hired under the conditions indicated by the representative, Husøy, would be in charge of the representative, he made it clear that he was actually taken by this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e284	The representative Holten has the characteristic that I do not consider a good quality: he always leaves out to answer questions we ask concretely – and talks about something else. I just asked: are there any small segments or any specific questions that he has not received an answer to? He's quoting a little bit from the committee, from what's said there, and then I have to say that a number of the things he quoted from there have been answered, and it's also recognized – I've read these records quite thoroughly. It was quite clearly recognized from Ueland that they had not done their job well enough. There were a number of confessions that were there. You may not have to check to find out that you had done a job in Rome that wasn't good enough, sail if the committee obviously had problems understanding that it was being injected, actually more than it said in the contract, but not enough to do the job well enough. It was clearly very difficult for the Committee to understand. But what I think Holten is doing is denying the job that has been done by the Riksrevision, by the Mudske-committee and by his own committee, when everything is to be examined. I asked some specific questions about things that have been said, claims, which he wants answers to. I said, is there something new, that you have to have an equivalent explored option? Why did the Christian People’s Party go against it on every occasion when this was a matter? Why did the Christian People's Party go in for a divided solution, as he now says is something very special? How can it be said that Hurum was built on a lack of facts? As I remember, it was the Minister of Transport of the Christian People's Party, Lars Gunnar Lie, who shrieked Hurum. All the things that have emerged in the hearings on weaknesses in Hurum, as some think it is, came to light before this was dealt with. I heard them both in the office and on the phone – everywhere. Several of the claims made in the hearings, I heard before the conclusion was drawn in the Stortinget. It should also have been heard by the representative Holten and the Christian People's Party, and concluded in 1990 and 1992.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e296	No, I do not deny previous work in the various samples and the investigations available. I can only refer to a letter received on 25 October 1999 from the National Audit Office to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which includes: is: ‘Both the National Audit Office’s investigation and the Committee’s evaluation have revealed weaknesses in the basis on which the Stortinget based its decision to build the Gardermoban.’ And then it says, ‘The Riks revision agrees with the Mudsk Committee that better procedures should be developed to ensure better quality on the decision-making basis of the Stortinge when dealing with major projects.’ In other words, it is not a good enough work that has been done. We believe that there is a need to go further in total in order to put this under the spotlight, and that there should be no limitations in the studies. I agree, however, that it may be a short time limit for doing this work, but we hope, as I said, that the work can be done in a thorough manner, and that once and for all, we will be able to set a finish line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e311	I actually don't know if I understand Odd Holten quite correctly. The Musketeer has been reduced from the government side to investigate the conditions surrounding the Gardermoen and Gardermobanen. The National Audit Office is the body of the Storting to carry out administrative investigations. Both reports are at the disposal of the Monitoring Committee, which has a new and comprehensive apparatus for dealing with matters — including open hearings. And then the question is, what does Holten mean that you have to carry out an investigation in order to gain greater credibility? It hits the Storting's own body, the Riksrevisionen – I had almost said – in the middle of my face! It also undermines the full justification for the apparatus with which the control committee itself has been set up to draw conclusions. Then, of course, it may be that some in open hearings in the control committee have said that this is possible to come back to. In this case, the Committee has the right to consult the person in an closed committee meeting, to ask for written information or to go on any track that the Committee might find politically interesting. For me, this proposal for scrutiny in a very serious matter seems to have been dictated most of all for reasons of convenience of one kind or another – because there is nothing in the Committee's overall material and potential for further work that prevents this matter from coming to an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e325	I can assure the representative Tom Thoresen that it is not for the sake of convenience that we want to organise an investigation commission – it is on the basis of the wish that we should be able to have a better procedure in this heavy and important area, and in fact also on the basis of the recognition that the Stortinget does not have a device itself to carry out these types of heavy investigations. We have to recognise that this is so extensive; there are so many elements still hanging in the loose air, and not least the Riksrevision itself asks whether it is such that the Storting has been properly and adequately informed about the business profitability of the project. These are the things we want to go on. There must be a clear premise for the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e332	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e335	Absolutely no one in this room should be surprised that there is criticism of such an extensive construction and investment project as a new main aerodrome. Nor should one be shocked by conflicting views about what has, should have and should not have happened. It should be a well-known phenomenon from the world of politics. From the Labour Party we have chosen not to go into the facts of the case in this setting. However, some comments need to be made, as other batches have concluded. I believe that the construction of the Gardermoban, and the Rome sports in particular, is not in the same class as the extension decision, but well qualified for some tough rounds in the ring, just that it has been said. The facts that have emerged about the driving of the sport of Rome, the underestimation of the damage to Hellerud and the lack of action are, in my view, a major and serious environmental scandal. I am also concerned about the reputation of the professional community after Rome. We have world-class expertise in tunnels. The scandal is not because of their advice, but on the contrary, their advice was not followed. Many harsh words have been spoken by politicians, journalists, professors, former officials and several others about other politicians and officials – often based on irreligious claims. Conspiracy, speculation, suspicion and accusations have come close as hail and surpass the most famous soap operas. The evening mail should have received the Amanda Prize as the best director. There is no need to be interpreted to mean that the media should not provide important information, but I ask questions about the lack of source criticism of the press and some professors. Most of the claims have been rebutted with great credibility. It is not particularly dramatic or alarming that things should have been done differently and better afterwards. Time off is useful, but it depends on experience. I would like to stress that the Labour Party believes that both the government and the big business must have great respect for constitutional rules. The obligation to provide information is of paramount importance. It is also the control activities. The size must always be able to rely on sufficient and relevant information from the Government. There can be no doubt about it. There are critical issues that we have to deal with in an open and factual way, but I would remind the Stortinget of what Opseth has said during the hearing, that there was a standing order in the ministry that all relevant reports and information should be sent to the Stortinget. The Labour Party believes that the Stortinget has comprehensive and sufficient information to conclude during the spring on the critical issues identified in the Riksrevision report and the Mudske Committee. When the proposals of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party are in favour of setting up a Committee of Inquiry, we believe that this is completely unnecessary. The Labour Party believes that the requirement for a re-examination of the Gardermo project is, in effect, a distrust and criticism of the Bondevik government's own review committee, and of civil society ministers for several years. It's an honest thing not to trust government councils from their own party. The proposal for an investigation commission also involves criticism of Stortinget’s own control body, the Riksrevisionen. Not much new has emerged in addition to what the Riksrevision and the Mydske-committee have brought forward. I also believe that it is a defeat for the Storting Control Committee that we cannot do our job, namely to conclude after so much documentation. It probably doesn't have that much to do with inability to conclude. Following the opinion of former Minister of Transport Dørum in a letter to the National Audit Office, Stortinget was given sufficient and relevant information on the basis of the Government’s recommendation on the extension of Gardermoen and Gardermobanen. And former Minister of Transport, Fjærvoll, said in today's business and in a letter to the committee that the Stortinget had the information it needed to make a correct decision on the airfield shaft in 1992. Nothing was withheld, he said in the hearings. So the government of Bondevik turned around, just as the bourgeois parties did after they left the government offices last time. I have not registered that any of those who mention the disclosure obligation, the liability law, the protocol committee or the national law, and who claim that former Council of State Opseth may have breached the disclosure obligation, have cared about the fact that the workers' party government and the central government are fully in agreement at this central point. But it's very alarming that the center parts of those degrees are undermining their own government. It is former government councillor Dørum, as a member of the government, who has responded to letters from the Riksrevision, who both confirm that the Stortinget has received the necessary information, and actually meets some of the Riksrevision's criticisms such as Holten & Co. now will examine. In addition, I would like to add that most of the claims that give the background to the requirement of a review commission this time have been rejected by the Storting earlier. It concerns a Document No. Eight proposals by Carl I. Hagen, which were firmly rejected by the inter-parties and the Workers' Party once earlier. The new thing is that he's probably got a majority behind him now, but the proposal doesn't get any better for that reason. The 1992 attitude and debate show that the Stortinget felt that there was a safe enough basis for decision-making. It is today the same fronts that apply, and as Arve Överby writes in a comment in the VG, that there is a ‘fight about the lost battles’ and that ‘The Greatness should examine itself’. The size cannot waive the responsibility for the decision on the new main aerodrome, even if at the time of the decision there was significant uncertainty about several conditions. The size should accept that not everyone got what they wanted. Then I'll say something about Kjell Opseth. He has excelled in being a very performance-oriented politician. He can get other references to results, and it's turned out to have his price. It is not without reason that many people want ‘an Opseth’ — a man of action with great executive power in school, in health care and in the municipality of Norway. It was probably an error to link business economic profitability to the Gardermoban, as Opseth himself suggested in the hearing. It is a fact that the alarm clocks did not call in any of the professional environments involved. Nor did the Ministry of Finance have specific guidelines. That was the socio-economic perspective. Some have wanted the heads to roll, others to see the Council of State blood, to use the more popular expression of politics. I think it's pretty primitive. The Labour Party believes that open questions will be settled if the Control Committee continues its work. The Committee may already decide on the claims listed by the minority of the Committee. I'll take some of the claims: So having other equivalent proven alternatives to compare Gardermo with the Storting itself said no. The shared solution was rejected by Stortinget. Hurum did not fall due to a lack of factual evidence. We find the documentation in the letter and press release of the Meteorological Institute. I have to ask why we have a bureaucracy to do the rough work for us. To the claim that the Gardermoban was organised with unclear division of responsibilities and roles: it was an enthusiastic Right that provided the bulk of the population that adopted the AS model. Liability is very clear. But parliamentary control is going to be different, and the Stortinget should know that. It is said that the ministry asked questions in such a way that it got the answers it wanted. I don't know what questions Holten has in mind, but they can't possibly be the basis of an investigation commission with their own law on witness duty. To all intents and purposes, the reviewers of the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party say that a "important consideration for setting up an investigation commission is also to get out of speculation that is not in place". So one agrees that there are speculations. And for this, you're going to use an investigator, a lawyer, an economist, an entrepreneur and a state suite. Seriously – this is a little serious and not the Stortinge worthy. We in the Workers' Party take a great deal of distance from unsubstantiated and undocumented claims that the decision to extend the Gardermo was made by means of unacceptable and potentially illegal information and processing, as read in the media. It's about politics. It has little to do with political disagreements. I think it's time to put the defeat behind and look ahead. We will come back to the critical issues that emerge in the Riksrevision report and in the Mydske Committee, in the final vote. But we know enough to conclude, draw lessons and place responsibility, and that's what's most important. The proposal for an investigation commission is in many ways fully in line with the previously created impression of the Stortinget regarding the choice of the main aerodrome — a legitimate impression of indecision. So finally, the evening post Henrik Width says the following in a comment in the newspaper about the hearings in Stortinget: ‘But there was no red-hot grilling of humiliated ex-state councils.’ This may be indicative of why we have this case for consideration today, but that is not justified. I also do not see that a commission should be a guarantee that we will get to the bottom of this matter. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e424	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e427	When Inger Lise Husøy wants to give Amanda the prize to the evening post as the best director, I must say that Kjell Opseth could have received the prize for the best leading role in this case! The speculations, suspicions and allegations in this case have been the basis for a thorough discussion in the committee. It has also been the basis for the Storting to appoint several investigation commissions, and for the Government to appoint the Mydske Committee. And when you don't get an answer to the questions that you initially want to answer, but the more one gets into the matter, you feel like a reason to ask even more questions, it's really serious, and not a little serious, as Inger Lise Husøy said, to continue that job. Therefore, unlike the Workers' Party, the Progress Party will find answers to all the questions that are still hanging in the air. We'll get to the bottom of this, and unlike the Workers' Party, we think it's our job and our duty as elected representatives. But I see that the Labour Party is far more concerned with the political game. We have not been looking for state councils at all. We have also not smelled State Council blood in this matter. We are committed to finding out the truth about the large and important process that has been associated with the new main aerodrome. One of the questions, which is also indicative, is whether Stortinget has received enough information. One thing that we can all agree on is that in terms of information about the profitability of the Gardermoban, at least it has not been good enough for the Storting in connection with the settings that we have treated. Therefore, it is quite natural to get an answer to other questions in this major and important matter, even though the Workers' Party is of a completely different opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e436	It is my firm belief that we have sufficient information to make the necessary conclusions in this matter. But we have not come so far that we have been asked all the questions we could have asked. We could have done that if the procedure had not stopped because someone in the committee wanted to investigate. I could have asked many questions, both in writing and in open hearings, and I am convinced that we would have been told enough to place the political responsibility and enough to do the political control we are set to do. I agree with what has been said here in the past as well, that we actually have a competence in our own control committee here in the house, we have the Riksrevision, we have the Mudske Committee. This case is illuminated at all levels. It may be a problem that you have been given a lot of information, that you find it difficult to draw conclusions. For my part, I don't think so. The representative Kleppe said in his reply to me that the Progress Party was not near or wanted to smell the Council blood. I think that appointing a protocol committee is pretty close, then.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e445	I am somewhat unintelligible for what the representative Husøy has now informed us, and especially for what allegedly matters that everything is really so clear from the documents we have received and the hearings we have had in connection with the matter. She says, among other things: Opseth said in the open hearing that it was said by him that all relevant information would come to the Stortinget. Then it is strange that the Riksrevision and the Mudske-committee, as she herself has referred to over and over again, just raised questions about whether it is such that this information has been given to Stortinget. Inger Lise Husøy has given the impression of being an active champion of the problems that have arisen in connection with the Gardermoban linked to the East Marka area. Therefore, I find it strange that she does not also want us to move forward in relation to what has happened in the Hellerud, Puttjern and Lutvan area, especially in the context of the contrasting relationship that has arisen in the hearing between Roald, the builders and Ueland in the NSB, where the first two said that there had not been any environmental damage and sentence damage in this area. It should have been something that the representative had an interest in getting to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e452	It is absolutely right that we have been very concerned about what has happened to Rome's sports at the committee. Although there are conflicting answers and views between Ueland and Steinar Roald, I do not find it difficult to draw any conclusions. One may not ask for examination because of conflicting views between two persons. We know enough to draw a political conclusion from this. I would also like to remind you that, with regard to what Opseth said in the hearing, former Minister of Transport Dørum has confirmed that Stortinget has received all the information necessary to take the decision it was put to make. I also want to add that it is completely wrong that the Riksrevision asks questions about this – they conclude. The national audit concludes, and it only has to make it even easier for the control committee to take a decision during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e463	I don't know if I want to go as far as the representative Husøy in renouncing all the officials – not all of them are novices. That someone has been a bit of a political player, I don't ignore it, and I see things about the hearings, which could have been reportedly excavated more, for example. the letter from the Aviation Agency which was never sent and what caused it. But I don't think it's big enough to start an investigation. This was decided on the political arena, and it is clear here that the representative Husøy is right that Opseth was a very performance-oriented Minister of Transport. He drove a very tough race, and he is still able to do so, cf. IT Fornebu. But it was decided on the political arena. But I wonder: Did I notice a small degree of humility at the representative Husøy, who is unusual at the Workers' Party? Suffering if she said that the foundation had been laid in the Stortinget, it was perhaps a small degree of humility – it should be – towards the work done in the department and the Gardermoban, both when it came to the planning and implementation of the work, and perhaps also the ability of the Gardermoban to, the opportunity to conquer as many passengers as it was about, sailed if it was a condition that it would not go by bus. Was it perhaps that the Gardermoban had a very short planning phase, unlike the airport, which has been a fairly long canvas to bleach, and that therefore it was not done well enough work? As a member of the Transport Committee at the time, I'm going to admit that in fact we were just occupied with the airport, and the track became something that went with it, and I'm very happy with it, but we didn't do a good enough job either. But I don't see the department here doing a good enough job that time. And is there ever in the Workers' Party a small realization that that job was not done well enough, and that perhaps one should have given the Gardermoban a slightly larger time horizon than it got, both in planning and in implementing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e473	The control committee has had, has and will have many difficult and heavy cases to deal with, and it is not difficult in retrospect to say that things could have been done differently, so also in this case. My point is not to absolve all the officials and all the political actors, but I say that we know enough about what has happened, to conclude. The letter requested by the representative Myrvoll was stopped in Lars Gunnar Lie's period in the Ministry of Transport, but we have also received very good evidence that it was not in a way that decided that Hurum was not elected. And I want to remember that it was Johan J. Jakobsen who first buried Hobøl, it was Lars Gunnar Lie who buried Hurum, and then we can read in the big papers how the vote happened in Stortinget in 1992. As for the lessons we're going to learn from this, I would like to say that the Mudsk Committee's attitude is to treatment in the Ministry of Transport. They have said that they will come up with the matter during April of this year, and then we will just have some consequences that should improve processes. I also want to mention the Rikshospitale in that context. I would like to point out that in the autumn of 1997, the Jagland administration also presented some changes and improvements to the operation of such processes, and in addition to the control committee, in the context of the treatment of North Hordlandsbrua. I think we can do a lot now -- we've learned -- and it's going to be better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e486	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e489	For very many years there have been conspiracy theories that very much has been done wrong with the manipulation and management of the entire main airfield process for the sole purpose of ensuring that the new main airfield was built on the Gardermo. Someone asked if there might be something wrong with that. Not necessarily, but if there has been a crime in the process, has been the detention of important information to the Storting, has been organized work in a certain way, it may have been illegal. And this theory is actually so many facts and assertions that suggest that it would be wrong if you didn't get a proper investigation, investigation, to see if there was any team in it, and perhaps especially for the sake of the affected, to establish that there is no team in theory. And the theory – to go through it – is relatively simple: Some at the top of the work movement decided at an early stage to add ground and regional policy considerations unilaterally and to use the location of the main aerodrome in such a way that the economy of society, the transport economy and the consideration of passengers and airlines should be subordinate to the political desire to provide an engine for the development of the Hedmark, Uppland, Rome region. First, we got the Lundby Committee's choice when it came to a new main airfield a long time ago. There was Hobøl that was set, and not the Gardermoen, something of the work movement that wished the Gardermoen, did not like. So it suddenly appeared remarkable from the Ministry of Transport forecasts of the future need for airport, because you looked at the number of travelers in the future. And then there was a forecast from the Ministry of Transport that the growth in the number of air passengers would be much smaller than you had previously thought, and that therefore it was not necessary to start construction in Hobøl. It could be postponed because there was no need for it. Hobøl was stopped on a basis that later turned out to be wrong. But Hobøl was stopped. So gradually the need to get a main airfield grew, and instead of going back and starting to build Hobøl, you got a new selection. That sample also evaluated Gardermoen and Hurum, and was perhaps also looking at some other places. That sample concluded that Hurum was preferable to Gardermoen. New disappointment – that’s not what it was supposed to be, but they tried to do so by violent pressure against the Workers’ Party’s big group, and put the matter before the Stortinget to choose Gardermoen, and not Hurum, who was set up by this committee. It was not possible to win, and in 1988 the Stortinget adopted Hurum – a new blow in the face of those who wanted the airport at the Gardermoen for regional and regional policy reasons. The next event was that despite the fact that everyone who spoke about weather measurements said that they had to hold for a long time — at least two years — for the measurements to be durable, the then state council William Engseth hurried after the fallout in 1989, but before the new uprising and the new government had joined, to publish dramatic reports from a few months of weather measurements, which concluded that Hurum was useless. And the new government Syse inherited this statement that it was dramatic with mist on Hurum, views that were later challenged by many meteorologists and professionals. But it was also political that if the Meteorological Institute and the specialist said that it was too much fog, we magnification representatives couldn't take a trip to Hurum and say that we don't believe in it. In retrospect, however, there have been many allegations, including the reports to Jan Wiborg, who died in tragic and remarkable circumstances some years later when he just started researching these weather measurements, and even thought that he could reveal that this was a joke and fantasy. So the matter came back to Stortinget. There is a great deal of information in the hearings, call it allegations, and some are supported by facts, suggesting that the basis for scrapping Hurum as an alternative was a failure. And if this process is driven by high levels of government and population groups, serious crimes may have been committed. Then Hurum was scrapped in 1991, and new rounds to get the airport at the Gardermoen were set in motion. It was known that there was not enough socio-economic and transport economy, because the main gravity of passengers is south of Oslo. The main gravity of the aeroplanes shall be southwards from Oslo. Socio-economic, transport-economic, consideration of users, so that the airport is located south of Oslo. One was terrified that Hobøl could reappear as an alternative. They were given signals that the airline director stopped a letter that informed that Hobøl could have been investigated on the same basis as Gardermoen only in three months, which, therefore, had not meant any postponement. In the 1992 debate, it was precisely a decision that was crucial, but it was not tolerated for many years by desert-free migration. The hearings showed that Hobøl would be investigated with the same level of detail as Gardermoen only in three months, because very much was there from the Lundby Committee's ten-year position. That's why it was about making fast decisions and not getting Hobøl on the track, and that's why, among other things, it was. the letter that showed these things stopped. And there was a lid on the debate, one was not supposed to have anything that would mess up the plan to get the airport to Gardermoen. It was known that in Stortinget it was very difficult. SV was hard, the center party was hard; they would have shared the solution. Then, of course, they launched the fast-paced Gardermoban, a fantastic train project that was supposed to be an environmental train. You would get the necessary number of representatives to go for the Gardermo because there was going to be an environmental train. And it was presented with bragging and bram as business-economical profitable, with 7-8 pst. the return on capital invested. It turns out in retrospect that all reports from Mudske to Tore Tønne – the new member of the government – say that it was never possible to obtain business profitability in Gardermobanen. But it was put into the case to get the necessary votes for the Gardermo as the new main airfield. It was a tool to get the necessary number of representatives to be involved. The fact that you were supposed to be factual and correct when it came to information and information for Stortinget, it wasn't that important, if you just got the necessary number of votes for Gardermoen as the main aerodrome. It's this conspiracy theory that's the basis for investigation. We believe that there is more than enough evidence to suggest that this work could be carried out by a protocol committee that could assess whether, when it was reviewed in relation to prosecution, with witness hearings, with evidence, it was the basis for bringing an action against one or more former Ministers of Transportation for breach of the Liability Act. Because there's one or more, it's right that the Workers' Party says that there are several people who have done remarkable things in their work. When we didn't get a majority on that in the committee, we have no problem being involved in the same operation of an investigation committee, so being composed so that one has the necessary competence to systematize the pile of material that we all have. It must be systematised, reviewed on the basis of professionalism, in order to assess whether there are sufficient grounds to challenge national law. Someone has to do the job, that there's going to be an investigation commission that does it first, is completely fine. If it concludes as I think it will, a protocol committee will gradually have less work to do, because the job has been done in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e514	It would have been tempting to ask Hagen how many national cases he intends to travel in the period, but I will leave that. We'll see about that. I can't see that there have been any particularly new claims in relation to what Hagen here said, and I also think that a lot of what is called facts and claims, is fiction. If you look back at what people have meant in the airfield, I want to say the following: Tell me where you live, and I'll tell you what you voted. I think everyone was busy getting that airport as close to their place of residence as possible, and it's perfectly legitimate. And that was one of four premises for the selection and location of the main aerodrome. It was an engine, and it was a fight about where it was supposed to be. I also want to add that I understand that the Progress Party makes a point of that, because they thought that the Storting should not decide the location at all. The policy of the Progress Party has been that this should be the responsibility of private companies, and private companies should also make the choice of places. So my question is, what are the facts that Hagen claims to have come up with now? What are the facts on the basis of which he is to have a commission of inquiry?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e521	I think it was okay for Inger Lise Husøy to clarify the enormous fundamental and ideological difference that exists between the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party. When there's a question about an airfield for the Workers' Party, it's a question of what area it is that we need a development engine in. Let's put the airport there! For the Progress Party, it's about improving a transport system for people and goods, and then the location becomes a result of an analysis work where you look at where the passengers come from, so that you get as much socio-economically wasted time as possible by people travelling to and from an airport. So where does the main gravity of the passengers live, and where are they going? For the airlines, the question is, where are the planes going? It's clearly an important thing to put the airport so that travel time by plane is as low as possible in total, among other things. in the interests of the environment, by which Inger Lise Husøy is heavily occupied, and so that one does not have empty aeroplanes, or aeroplanes that unnecessarily spew out exhaust gases. For us, it's the consideration of the transport and those who are going to travel, and those who are going to work, which is crucial, and then it's of course that there has to be a location for which it's possible physically to build and construct an aerodrome and a accommodation service. And everyone we've asked during the hearings says that for all of these areas, Gardermoen was the worst option. Hobøl and Hurum were far better. We are now likely to waste at least one billion dollars every year in the future because the main airport is located on the Gardermoen instead of in Hobøl or Hurum. The time it takes for the planes to fly over Oslo and up to the Gardermoen, and from the Gardermoen over Oslo southward – not all but the main gravity – costs money, and the passengers spend time. So we're looking at an airport as a transportation problem, and it can be solved by private far better than by a popular body. The Gardermoen Main Airport is the perfect example that in such cases it is not the way to make decisions in this assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e536	In this case, the Progress Party is so thin that Hagen has his toes far down in ice - cold water. Firstly, Hagen is completely wrong when he tries to create the investigation commission that the majority of people are going to adopt today, about a small facilitator commission that will review the documents that the Stortinget has received. It is a completely different mandate from that of Carl I Hagen himself. This is a very comprehensive mandate which is not at all linked to the short time available to the Commission of Inquiry. It simply means that the majority of the population believes that it will be possible to go through all of the review reports that have come to light on this matter over a period of six months, find something that has not been made clear before, and conclude on a completely new perspective in relation to the progress party that has previously been able to achieve. And then I would like to ask, what is wrong with the conclusion that the Riksrevision has presented to Stortinget? What's wrong with the conclusions of the MCC's report to the Stortinget? And then to the history of the Progress Party in the matter. It is true that the Storting lifted the bonding of Hobøl. This happened during the Minister of Transport, Jakobsen. There was one party in the Stortinget that thought that Hobøl was still to be used as an investigative option. We stood alone against the Progress Party and the votes of the centre parties. In 1992, or earlier, when the weather measurements were scorched, the party believed that they should be presented. Ergo was very many of the conspiracy theories and claims that were made in this round, on the table already then. What is the reason why the Progress Party did not believe that the Mudske Committee was going to investigate these conditions when it was reduced, but has suddenly come up with it right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e547	Kristin Halvorsen says that SV stood alone when it came to removing the binding of Hobøl. That's probably true, I don't remember it, but I assume she's telling the truth. But that was the time we actually trusted that a department of trade, the Ministry of Transport, had professional proof of what they said. In retrospect, we have learned that in the case of the Ministry of Transport, we have to take what they say with some pinches of salt. There have been so many cases since then where it appears that there is no basis for having the confidence in the department's professional assessments. The forecasts for the development of air traffic, which was the main basis for ending the bonding of Hobøl, have proved to be totally insane. Otherwise, with regard to the characteristics of the behaviour of the Ministry of Transport in this main airfield, I would like to refer to the former Departmental Council Bjørn Larsen, who was very clear during the hearings and in public opinions, about a procedure in a department that was completely under any criticism. The former Ministerial Council has in effect accused parts of the Department of Civil Service of conducting a sort of party political or personal struggle for a special solution, namely the main airport at Gardermoen. Through the work they did in the department and what they presented to the Stortinget, they were emboldened by the desire to help get the main airport to Gardermoen. These are things that have emerged in recent times. As for what Bjørn Larsen said, it was further in the debate in 1992-93, but more and more information has gradually emerged that leads us to conclude as we have done. That at an earlier time we may not have been good enough in the matter, I'd like to admit, because there is no one who is able to follow all the matters in this house to the point and the point, but now it will be irresponsible not to follow up the majority in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e554	When I hear the representative Hagen, it does not seem to me that he is particularly ill informed about the Gardermo, and the representative Hagen also said that he thought there was enough information that had come up. The point, as I perceived by the representative Hagen, was that it was necessary to systematise the information that had emerged during this matter. What it must be allowed to ask is: what was the point of the Riksrevision going through the case, that we have had a NOW that has gone through the case, that we have had an open hearing that was conducted within five days, where a total of five previous state councils have been heard, 33 others were heard, and the committee has been given access to absolutely all the information it has asked for? I cannot see Hagen's need to systematise this information as anything else than that the committee is unable to systematise this information, and therefore the Storting is not able to systematize the information either. I find it sad that you now seem to have a majority in the Stortinget because you believe that the Stortinget does not have the competence and the ability to systematize information in such a big case. My question to the representative Hagen is: What does he think will be new? What does he expect from such an investigation commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e561	If the representative Gryten had read our whole special comment in the committee, he would have received an answer to his questions. It is absolutely right that we have the Riksaudition report, we have NOW, we have open hearings, we have various previous reports – we all have a big case pile, at least those who have gathered for some years. The Committees of the Biggest are not the instrument to systematize this, it has never been on the agenda. If such a quantity is available, a separate Protocol Committee must be appointed in accordance with Section 14(a) of the Rules of Procedure, which shall assess it. Such a committee will, of course, employ a secretariat and, where appropriate, have some former State Attorney who has experience in the systematisation of material. This has in some ways become a criminal matter, and in criminal matters — for example, the use of drugs in prison. In the Orderud case, which has been in the media a lot – you have a lot of witnesses, site inspections, gathering information, and then it's the professionals, state lawyers and prosecution authorities who are going to go through the available material, systematize it, take the different points and put together testimonies, find out where it cracks, and then assess: do we have a basis for a case? Storing representatives are not qualified for it and have no experience with it. We can't deal with this kind of thing every day, because we actually have other things to do, too. So it's never been a case in point that there are big-time representatives who are going to make professional judgements as to whether testimonial hearings are taking place, it's the people who have experience from the court system and the judiciary, and so you have to have someone in a secretariat, like the Lund Commission and others, who works all day, and who knows what to look for – a secretariat who also has the right to call witnesses who are not volunteers during our hearings, nor under oath, but witnesses who have to answer questions during the oath. And that's a rather different procedure for clarifying the matter than what we have had the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e570	During an exchange of words in the hearing between Ueland and Hagen, Hagen said, ‘Is it I that I’m all on earth, then?’ I think it’s some of the best Hagen has said for a long time. He was obviously completely on the ground that time, I feel like he's now too. I would first like to say that part of the criticism he is going against the Ministry of Transport, as one of the great critics of a number of Ministers of Transport, I find it difficult to accept. I have fought quite hard with most of the Ministers for Transport, partly alone in this room, but I do not know the department as a department that treats things lightly, and as dangers with forms of cheating in relation to us who are here. I've been critical of some things that have come from the department, but I actually think this is a fairly tidy department to deal with. I feel the need to say it as one of those who have been critics of the Ministry of Transport and Ministers of Transport several times. When Hagen in his post goes through the Workers' Party's relationship with the Gardermo, he has so far been right, they have wanted the Gardermoen all along. But what he forgets to tell is that it was Johan J. Jakobsen who lifted the bonding of Hobøl, and it was Lars Gunnar Lie who shripped Hurum. So in a way, it's not just the work movement that has a story here, it also has the center parts. The labour movement cannot take responsibility for what these ministers were involved in. But what surprises me even more is that when Hagen tells us about Gardermoen's poor location in transport, environmental etc., I assume he recognized it in 1992. It's the way in this room that when the primary position doesn't get a majority, you find something secondary. And what I'm asking is, when Hagen then knew that he wouldn't get a majority for a private expansion of an airport, why didn't the Advance Party support Right's proposal to move on to Hobøl in 1992, that's a much better option?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e580	Let me first refer to the explanations of vote that were given at the time. Our view was that we would stand on our primary position and not participate in any subsidiary solution. We actually tried everything we could to stop us from getting the Gardermo. The regret was that the SV and the Senterpartiet, who all the time ran as they were towards a main airfield, voted in such a way when it came to the voting order that they had a primary responsibility for getting the airport at the Gardermoen. The two parties could have voted in favour of a different voting order in 1992. Then the voting order would have been different, and then the final result would have been different. Had Hobøl come to the end of the investigation, I don't know if we had supported it. At least we didn't have the plan to do it that time. I can later say that we have received more information. But we did not want the main airfield on the Gardermoen and then we acted, while the SV and the Senterparte voted in such a way in connection with the voting order that we got the result we are now left with. Everyone's probably going to go through what was done in connection with the main airfield for very many years. I don't think the Progress Party has any reason to be ashamed. We've kept a relatively clear line all along. We said in 1992 that this was a transport technology case that Stortinget did not have to decide, but that one could leave to a private company. We said the same thing when it came to the Gardermoban, that the only guarantee that the Gardermoban would be a business-economic project was that private individuals were willing to invest in it. It turned out that we were right. Had private rather than public standing for the Gardermoban, it would probably not be built, and we had got a completely different system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e587	I am becoming more and more amazed because the Progress Party describes the background for which decisions were taken in connection with the Gardermo and Gardermobanen, because the same Advance Party in the vote is ready to set up a Protocol Committee to examine the basis of a national law. This means, then, that the Progress Party must be clear that the information received by the Storting is not adequate for the facts, especially when it comes to the uncertainty surrounding the business profitability of the Gardermoban. That is what SV agrees with, and that is why we are promoting a proposal in this position. But the Progress Party, which is ready to conclude with national law, is now concerned with highlighting the degree of uncertainty surrounding this. At this point, however, it is quite obvious to us, based on both the report of the Mydske Committee and the position of the National Audit Office, that the information received by the Stortinget is not comprehensive. What, then, is the reason why the Progress Party is going to put down an investigation commission with a very broad mandate, which is going to investigate matters from before 1988, if necessary – they may have an effective six-month working time to review – when the conclusion on the essential constitutional issues lies with all of us? And the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen, who are concerned with constitutional issues, cannot have come to the conclusion that there should be an expert committee, consisting of an investigator, an economist, an entrepreneur, a public white, and a leader with considerable legal competence, who should decide whether the disclosure obligation in relation to the Storting is fulfilled! That conclusion is only the Storting itself can draw. The problem with Carl I. Hagen is that the Right and Center parties refuse to draw a conclusion, and the Advance Party is now – in partnership with them – willing to spend 4 million. of taxpayers' money on new desert migrations in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e594	It was then intensely caring for Kristin Halvorsen now has for me – I should like to have problems, and she feels sorry for me and wants to help me with my problems. Let me make it clear: we have no problems, and I have no problems in this case. I forgot one thing for Mr. Myrfull of earlier. He said that the Center Party and others also have some experience in this matter. I made a very strong point that when we want a review or a protocol committee, it is to assess whether there is a basis for raising a possible national court appeal against one or more previous state councils. Myrvoll has mentioned a few names that are relevant in such a context. We haven't concluded. I thought Kristin Halvorsen was so ready and listened to what I'm saying – I'm aware that media people are not doing it. We have not concluded that there is a basis for raising a national court. In the case of a Protocol Committee which shall first assess it, that Protocol Committee shall, where appropriate, make an adjustment to the Odelsting. That's when the time comes to conclude. We haven't concluded, but we have concluded that there are so many indisians who speak for the possibility that there may be grounds for raising a national court address. It has to be done by professionals through systematicisation of that work. Whether it is to be done by a review commission with a secretariat or by a protocol committee with a secretariat – of the two options we would have preferred, and we have said that directly, a protocol committee. We also said, "We didn't get a majority for that." Then we have to do exactly that, sir. Myrvoll said instead. Then we have to pick the next best, and the next best thing is to get a review commission to work on it. Of course, a review commission with these persons should not conclude. They shall normally provide a position in which the Odelsting is the only competent authority to conclude whether or not a national court action is to be brought against any. And that's during the treatment that the matter comes to treatment, not now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e611	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e614	The Gardermo case, including both the airport and the track, is a complicated technical as well as economical matter to judge in retrospect, as it was also in the preparation and realization process. In addition, it has its own consequences for the implicit ones that make it further necessary to get to the bottom of different aspects of the case. Therefore, resources and time should not limit our efforts to set a finish line for the project that holds for the present and the future credibility of the project and that provides justice to the parties and persons involved. The right is also of the opinion that the matter is about trust in the democratic system. When the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs recommends today that the Grand Duchy should complete its proceedings before the Grand Duchy of Great Britain in the spring of 2001, and at the same time will lead the way to a review commission, it is precisely the legal certainty of those involved in the process, as well as the credibility and ability to draw correct conclusions in retrospect, which is the main objective itself. It is therefore wrong when the representative, Mr Husøy, gave the impression that by appointing a commission of inquiry, the committee closed the case. The Committee of Inquiry is a tool in the Committee's work, and the Committee will give its opinion in the spring of 2001, which is the objective. In the opinion of the Right, a fundamental question is whether Stortinget was given all the information available when Stortinget took its decision in 1990 that the Hurum project should be scrapped, and Gardermoen was to be explored as a new main aerodrome, which was subsequently finally adopted with the associated accommodation system. In other words, was the government's information obligation to the Storting? The final answer to this central question does not exist, and it is only the Storting itself that can decide it, if necessary initiate preparations for national law by setting up a protocol committee, as described in paragraph 14(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, and I refer in this context to the Special Commentary of the Advance Party in the vote. In the Right’s view, the Stortinget is best placed to find the correct reassuring answer by walking the path of an investigation commission, which will again be indicative, but not binding, for the final conclusion of the Stortinge, whether it had to end up in degrees of criticism or the most serious reaction of the Stortinget towards the government, namely national law. The scope and nature of the case require expertise and transparency based also on the statutory obligation to testify that the Committee and the Stortinget are not invariably best placed to perform. That is why the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right have pointed out in our proposal that the Investigation Commission must have competence in law, economics, complex construction and research as well as state science. Experience with the use of investigation commissions in the Racist case, the banking crisis and the secret services means that the Right believes that such truth-seeking commissions are an appropriate tool to provide a solid basis for decision-making in complex matters for parliamentary finalisation. Thus – I would like to reiterate and underline – a review commission in the Gardermo case is part of the work of the Control Committee, while a final conclusion and recommendation for the Spring 2001 Stortinget, and not a postponement or a decision-making refusal by the Right. Everyone should see that the final line to be put by the Stortinge in this matter remains in the later critical light, and that the decision is perceived as correct in the opinion as well as in the Stortinge when it is taken. That is why I am surprised that the Workers' Party, whose state councils in Harlem Brundtland's governments in the 1990s are now exposed to maximum criticism and suspicion, is so afraid to use an investigation commission for a thorough review of the case. And here we are at another core point in the Right's argument that we would not draw a conclusion in the matter until a review commission has looked at the history of Storting's decision to build the main airport on the Gardermoen with the path as a accommodation system. Despite the existence of a considerable amount of investigations into the case in addition to the Riksrevision Document No. 3:10 for 1997-98 with supplements, such as the very good report of the Mydske Committee, which evaluates planning and implementation, but not the history of the decision to build the main aerodrome at Gardermoen, the report of the Tunne Committee on project Gardermoen to the General Assembly of the NSB Gardermobanen, the report of the Norwegian Main Airport Forum from 1993 on the aerodrome axis as well as the so-called reference group and the verification group as the Ministry of Transport itself nominated, is little lighted on what happened prior to the decision of the Stortinge in 1990, as well as prior to the final development decision of the Stortinge, based on St. pp. No 90 for 1991-92. The review commission shall cover a period such as: The Musketeer has not been affected. In any case, the National Auditor’s report, Document No. 3:10, that the uncertainty of the project is not adequately described in St.prp. No 90, and the Ministry of Transport subsequently admits to the National Audit Office that the uncertainty at some points could be better underlined in the proposition. It is also interesting to clarify more why the uncertainty is handled in a much better way in the main airfield than in the Gardermoban. The National Audit Office is also reasonably clear that several cost elements have been omitted and that it has been presented for optimistic forecasts of the business-economic profitability of the track. In this context, too, the Musketeer's suggestion of strategic budgeting is a matter of concern, all of which should be interested in getting it pointed out to see what it might contain. In this context, I refer to point 1 of the minority proposal, as set out in the setting on page 7, as regards the desire for a broad review of the investigation, planning, design and development of the new main aerodrome and runway, and that the process prior to the decision is examined. In spite of many investigations, no one has taken up the process in advance. Now we recommend that the investigation commission go back to 1988, and if necessary even further back in time. No stone should be dirty. When e.g. In fact, the Muds Committee believes that there is reason to ask questions about whether strategic budgeting has been carried out in this case, is the fairly strong word. When e.g. the open consultations carried out by the Committee reveal a broad range of views and allegations on key points in the case among key policy and management actors, weaken confidence in compliance with the Liability Act and the satisfactory fulfilment of the government's obligation to provide information to the Grand Duchy. Here there is reason to note that the Workers' Party's fraction in its specific note also addresses the many different opinions and claims relating to different aspects of the Gardermo project, and considers that such views and claims cannot govern the control activities of the Storting. There is hardly any major disagreement about this, but it should be lacking that you do not do what is possible to get these kinds of claims investigated as best they can. A committee of inquiry will also provide a better opportunity than before to remove untargeted speculations. This also has something to do with the confidence of the entire democratic system. It is not difficult to understand those who think that enough needs to be enough, and that it is now time to set the finish line for the long-term debate on different aspects of the Gardermo development. The documentation and report base has gradually grown to a considerable extent, and several hours have been used for hearings, which have also resulted in extensivereports. I therefore understand the point of view, but at the same time I must admit that I am quite impressed by the fact that the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the SV, at the same time as the broad pen, state that the matter is sufficiently enlightened to enable the Committee to draw the necessary conclusions. A very different issue is that within the majority there are clearly rather different opinions about which conclusions to draw. The working party's fraction suggests that most of it seems to be in order, while SV for its part states that the Ministry of Transport has not provided the Stortinget with comprehensive information on important aspects of the Gardermoban. So the right and the rest of the number of comitems – which hopefully have the support of a majority here in the Chamber today – is of a different opinion. Unlike the majority, we believe that there are still many and significant open questions regarding both the technical, economic and environmental aspects of the matter. A selection of these questions is listed in the setting, and I'm not going to take the time to repeat them here. In my opinion, however, the questions are so many and so important that there is every reason to use the time needed — and the tools that may be most appropriate — to bring the matter closer to a more consistent and authoritative presentation of the facts. In this context, I refer to the argument that both the rapporteur and the representative Hagen have used. In the opinion of the Right, therefore, it is not recommended that the Storting should draw its final conclusions on responsibilities and causality on the basis of the available material, but the available material should, of course, be included in addition to the work and report to be submitted by the Examination Commission. That is why we expect the Commission's report, when it is available in winter 2001, to provide the Committee and the Stortinget with the necessary basis to enable the Stortinge to put the matter first before we split up in June 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e654	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e657	I'm afraid the fronts of this case won't put the finishing line after an investigation either; probably they would find a third-party intrusion or something like that that could create a new debate. The working party is not at all afraid of any investigation. We have nothing to fear. But I don't think it's a bunch of factual grounds for an investigation, that's what's the difference between us and the Right and the other parties. So to the care that the representative Ludvigsen was in. None of them are to be examined, who have asked for some care from the Right. I have not seen that they have asked for any investigation either. I want to put the representative Ludvigsen to some of the statements in the setting. It says, among other things: ‘It should have been obvious to have other equivalently proven alternatives to compare the main aerodrome project on the Gardermoen with’. So it was the Right Party and the Labour Party that voted against the Stortinget. I'll also go into the next statement about the divided solution. It was also the Stortinget that clearly went away from it. And I would like to remind you of Kaci Kullmann Fiber's posts in this way, where she said that she ‘believes this’ cafeteria with landing possibilities ‘as completely inappropriate location for the main Norwegian aerodrome of the future.’ As for Hobøl, it's said that it wouldn't take more than three months to explore the Hobøl option so that one got a real alternative to compare with. But it wasn't just the time perspective that made one not go in for Hobøl. There was no majority in the Great Council for Hobøl. There was actually no consensus in the Right about that either. So Hobøl is out because of political disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e672	I believe, through this debate, that the representative, Mr Husøy, on behalf of the Labour Party and I, on behalf of the Right, have a very different approach to the matter. From my point of view, it is important to bring out the full and complete truth, to get the best possible review of the case, the history of the decision and the further progress and development. For me, it is important to get a proper presentation, not that a kind of party policy appropriateness should be taken into account. I am not concerned about who might have said or adopted this way and so, I am concerned that we are now going to get a proper review that can be fully trusted. Talking about ‘third-stage intrusion’ – I honestly think this is too serious a matter for us to use that kind of ingenuity or that kind of argument. It is possible that the representative, Husøy, does not find ‘frog on a factual basis for an investigation’. Then I have to say that Husøy might take a fresh look at the matter. There has been strong criticism from such a solid work as the Mudsk Committee, which actually suggests strategic budgeting, the Riksaudition is reasonably clear in its criticism, and a number of statements have been made through the review that I think it would be interesting to review again. So to Hobøl. The new thing is that the consultation has made it clear that it was possible to arrive at a thorough and reliable alternative during a three-month period. If you doubt it, well, it will be clear through the review that is now to be carried out. Moreover, I am most concerned about this in this context that we should not now draw conclusions in the facts of the matter, but decide whether or not to set up an investigation commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e681	On the SV side, we don't have as much history as we have any reason to be horrified about, so we should have something to fear by an investigation. For me, this is a little more about the propriety of politics and the ability of politicians to make the consequences of their own decisions, decisions that we have not been in favour of and voted down on. But I still think the politicians should respect their own history. In fact, it seems to me that very much of what has been asked is well-explained, and the committee had the opportunity to go out and get more information, continue the hearings, get written answers, etc. I don't think it's been so much unanswered. What is central is that this was a political struggle on the political arena. I believe in a way that the redeeming words were said on October 8, 1992 at 9.00 p.m. 22.00 of the then parliamentary leader in Right, Anders Talleraas, who said: ‘They have to take care of those who have it – or v i who have it, someone said it.’ Then the right knee bowed for the Workers' Party, then it was decided. And you always knew that the Workers' Party wanted to go to the Gardermo. The right was split, and did not take the chance to take this fight. Actually, you can say that the Right has bent the knee for the Workers' Party twice, in 1990 and 1992. It has been decided. I don't know, but it's possible that we could have needed a commission to investigate the brains of the Right, as Talleraas said. But I think in a way that we should rather discuss it here in the hall without carrying out an investigation. The right is responsible for the decisions being taken, and the right knew very well about a number of the objections that have arisen, because they were there when Hurum was scolded, because then there were a number of Right-Representatives in the pulpit here – with Hallgrim Berg and Ingrid Willoch at the head – who doubted the weather measurements and disagreed with them. That's what they were doing, and the same thing about a part in retrospect. I think the Right just prolongs its own suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e695	I am a little uncertain whether this was a line to me at all, but it is a well-known exercise in Stortinget that you would also like to answer questions that are not asked. I record that in fact it is so that both the Right and the SV have a common approach to this matter, and it is about propriety. I agree with Mr Myrvoll on the propriety of politics. But I am not so concerned about how right or other parties should have stood in this room in this matter for a number of years. I am interested that we are going to end the matter, so that you not only have a story about the past, but you also have to create a story for the future, and that is why I am concerned that we should finally put a final line to which you can trust politically and in your opinion. I do not understand that you should be so afraid to get a proper review of the story before the decision in 1990, when you shriek Hurum and when you treated St.prp. No 90 and adopted the Gardermo. It's been a political struggle, but let's at least end this political struggle in a way that doesn't make it a sense that we haven't set a worthy finish line. That is my wish, and I hope that everyone will contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e703	We believe that we can now set a worthy finish line this spring. I have to say that I have quite a good background for my own opinion, because I have read about all the papers on this matter in the case of case documents, in the case of debates, in the case of voting, and in the case of voting. The right has played a key role here, and there are many notable curvature right has stood for it. I think that the representative Ludvigsen very easily jumped over the fact that this is about politics, that it is based on political decisions, and I also think that it becomes a little double-ethical the post that the representative Ludvigsen made on this matter, when we know that not many weeks ago the Storting went in with open eyes to adopt the Eastfold package. I admire both motorway and rail operations in Eastfold – don't get me wrong – but so the Storting went in with open eyes and decided to finance half without knowing what the final calculation would be. I think it'll be a little double moral to make such a big point in another case. I also want to say that it is precisely because we have come up with criticism, that we are able to conclude this spring. Then I have a specific question to the representative Ludvigsen regarding the timing. It says ‘that the ministry asked questions in such a way as to obtain the answers it wanted’. What questions are asked by the department, and what answers have they been given that were obviously ordered? And does the representative Ludvigsen think that this is the basis of an investigation commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e714	I noticed that the representative, Husøy, felt it necessary to stress that she had read all the case documents. It was just supposed to be missing. If you have to cancel, I have also tried to do so. Whether the Right has played a key role or not or other games have played a key role or not in this matter, I don't think I can be the guide to whether you want to seek the truth. That is why, according to the representative Mr Husøy here, I record and stress, political, that it is therefore more politically appropriate to decide on the position of the Workers' Party and the representative Mr Husøy with the scrutiny commission than the approach of the undersigned. When you use it as an argument that we should not go deep into this that we have just adopted the Eastfold package, and that there should be some kind of comparison here, I have to remind the representative Husøy that what we agreed there is that each project should return to the Stortinget and be dealt with in the Stortinget, and there is a cost estimate plus/minus 10 pst. So it's a completely different treatment and a completely different quality assurance of the project than what we got. Then I have to remind you that an important part of the work to be done in the Investigation Commission is to go into a phase and a time epoch that is not affected by the Mudske Committee. It's been done in the past a great deal of trust in the Mudsk Committee. Well, the Musketeer has done a very real job, but we have a time ahead of the decisions in 1990 and the decision to build the Gardermoban which is important to get, so that we have the whole when we're going to draw the final conclusions, before the Stortinge goes apart in the spring of 2001. That means that the committee has not closed the case. The Committee has it on its table and will continue to work when we get a new input from the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e725	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e728	The representative Ludvigsen is injured to give the impression that the Gardermo case, the expansion of the main airfield and the Gardermoban, is a project that is not well-lit. That's why I allowed myself next to my place here at Stortinget to set up some of the case papers that are the basis for the committee's work. As you can see, there is a poppy full, and there are still documents missing. SV's starting point is that the Gardermo case is very thoroughly illuminated. It is one of the most extensive research projects around which there have been the most extensive reports, and the studies that have been carried out have concluded on significant points of interest for Stortinget. As an annex to the submission, for those who wish to read, there is an overview of the investigations carried out and the documents which the Committee has had as a background for its examination of the case. The majority of the majority of the population, the minority in the Committee, will today be in favour of setting up a review committee with a very broad mandate. At the same time, there is no correlation between the broad mandate to be given to the review commission and the time constraints imposed by the majority of the population on the work of the sample. With my knowledge of the matter, it is very difficult to see that a new investigation commission should have the opportunity to find out in relation to a relationship that previous investigations have not revealed. At the time available, a Commission will have difficulties both in getting involved in the case, reading all previous reports and documents, conducting inquiries and concluding on matters, if necessary, before 1988 and until today. The members of the Commission may not only consist of a lawyer, an investigator, an economist, an entrepreneur and a state suite, it must also be the most optimistic in these professional groups who are chosen and reported to sit in such a commission. And whoever will volunteer for such work remains to be seen. In any case, the bulk of the population decides to work within a cost framework of 4 million. kr. In the opinion of the SV, it is important to review large construction projects with significant overshoots, and the development of new main aerodrome on the Gardermoen and Gardermobanen is the largest project in mainland Norway in recent times. It is important to review it in order to place responsibilities and to learn for the future. One of the major functions of the Storting is the control function of the government, the decisions taken and the basis on which the Storting is based when decisions are to be taken. In recent years, the size has strengthened its control function, among others. by setting up a separate Monitoring and Constitutional Committee. But when that's said, it's also essential that the Storting knows and understands to conclude, and that's what the Storting itself has to do in relation to constitutional issues. When the minority in the Committee and the majority in the Chamber want to put aside an investigation commission to find actual information that is relevant for assessing the liability law, it is difficult to see that people can be found outside this room who can do it better than the Storting itself. On the basis of the report of the National Audit Office, which is the committee's point of view and the open consultations carried out by the Stortinget Committee, it is time to draw the conclusions. My somewhat irreverent claim to the minority of the committee and the majority of the majority of the board is that they are in favour of a commission of inquiry because they refuse to draw the constitutional and control conclusions themselves; they must, on the contrary, and really have the help of experts to write their own comments. Now the situation is as follows: the Gardermoen, the new main aerodrome of the eastern part of the country, lies there, and in an international context, it is even a very successful main aerodrome. It is true that some major and serious environmental problems related to Gardermoen are fixed. It is linked to Gardermoen being the principal aerodrome on a groundwater reservoir. But these conditions were also known when Stortinget decided to expand Gardermoen as the new main aerodrome. The issue of environmental issues and groundwater was one of the reasons SV entered a small single runway aerodrome, precisely because it would not be above the groundwater reservoirs. So it was knowledge that the Stortinget had at the time Gardermoen, the principal aerodrome, was adopted. When the Stortinget now sets down a new investigation commission on a matter that is so nine-timely examined, the majority of the Stortinget emphasises with its actions that Gardermoen is a scandalous project. It's actually an exaggeration that there's no basis for establishing. But environmental problems need to be solved. SV is very concerned about it, and of the responsibility of the majority that went into such a large airport at Gardermoen, when they knew about the groundwater problems. SV believes that the main question in this case raised by the National Audit Office's report to Stortinget, namely whether the information obligation in relation to the Storting is complied with, can now be concluded. For us, it is clear that the uncertainty surrounding the Gardermoban economy was not presented to Stortinget in a comprehensive manner. When the Ministry planned this matter and the proposition to be submitted to the Stortinget, both a reference group and a verification group had been set up — the latter submitted two reports. In all these three reports, it was strongly underlined that the uncertainty surrounding the financial situation of the Gardermoban, whether it was an economically profitable business project, was not consistent with the description presented in the proposition. The Court of Auditors has not called into question, as some speakers have been in the Chamber, whether the obligation to provide information has been complied with. The national audit concludes as follows: ‘The audit has revealed significant deficiencies in the Ministry of Transport’s information to the Stortingen regarding the operational profitability and uncertainty of the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban. For the decision maker, it is relevant how the economy and uncertainty of a project are presented. It is, among other things, central to provide information on the degree of uncertainty there is to ensure that the estimated investment estimate will be sufficient.’;» On this basis SV wants to conclude. The one with the constitutional and practical responsibility of the government at that time was former government councillor Kjell Opseth. Therefore, SV has proposed, in the form of a decision, that the criticism we have against the Ministry of Transport at that time be adopted by the Stortinget, and that the matter be concluded and examined by the Stortinget. The proposal put forward by the SV is so-called a vote of no vote. Thus, SV has concluded that when comparing the situation in the Storting and the political decisions with the information the Storting had at the time, it is not reasonable that the criticism we are raising against Opseth should result in a national court case. Many of the claims that have now been made in the matter were already on the Stortinges table at the time. I think Kjell Opseth when he says he had nothing to profit from holding information back for the Storting. Nevertheless, the information received from Stortingen was insufficient to shed light on the uncertainty of the project. And it's very important to conclude at that point in order to settle the matter now, and to set the standard for future governments as to what kind of information to provide to the Storting. When SV wants to conclude the case today, it is also because we believe that both the Ministry of Transport, the NSB and other actors have difficult tasks related to the future in the transport sector. These are major issues such as road safety, at sea and on the rail system, which should mean that the Ministry of Transport is now concentrating all the forces on how this can be resolved for the future, and that not a lot of competence and thinking power are linked to old issues. The same applies in the NSB. We know that the NSB has a great security job to do that they need to concentrate all the forces on. Now one should conclude in the case and give the NSB a clear signal to focus on what are security issues and that can save human lives in the future. With this, I would like to raise the SV's agenda vote, the proposal for criticism of the Ministry of Transport that has been referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e771	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e776	In the line change after Hagen's posts and in Mrs. Halvorsen's main posts, the impression was that she thought it was wasted spending 4 million kroner. the taxpayers’ money to the effect that the parties which are unable to conclude at this stage, as the Progress Party, can have the time and opportunity to systematise the information and also to look at part of what has arisen in the hearings, in relation to the claims, speculations and suspicions that have been sown through the hearings. And the rapporteur from the Workers' Party's fraction, Inger Lise Husøy, was largely concerned with this in her statement when she said that there was no shortage of such claims. We in the Progress Party are very sensitive to the others here in the Storting, and when there is a question mark about the information that the Stortinget has received and the review that has been done, we are willing to spend four million. kr to obtain the full and complete truth by appointing a commission of inquiry to get to the bottom of this important matter. Is that how to understand that it's the 4 million. Mrs Halvorsen and Mr SV will not accept it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e785	The President assumes that when the representative Kleppe uses the term Mrs Halvorsen, it is synonymous with the representative Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e794	At least no one else is responding to that appeal, even though I look around to see if the mother's here! But she's a very gripped lady, so it's an honor to be called Mrs. Halvorsen. No, in fact, SV believes that we can conclude the matter now. In fact, SV believes that it is wasted time and money to reduce a commission to dig down in 12-14 years' time, when the most important thing the Stortinge has to deal with, namely whether the information obligation of the Department of the Stortinge is complied with, can now be concluded. I do not understand and understand why not the Right and why not the Centre Parties can agree with the Riksrevisions conclusion in its report to the Stortinget, where it says that there are significant deficiencies in the Ministry of Transport's information to the Stortinget regarding the new main aerodrome and the Gardermoban. It is very easy to conclude when looking at the collapse proposition presented by the Stortinget, and comparing it with the exceedances that have occurred in the expansion of the Gardermoban, and looking at how little uncertainty is described for the Stortinget, while knowing that the Ministry had a separate reference group and two reports from a verification group that pointed out just weaknesses in the financial situation of the Gardermobanen. We believe that the conclusion is in place today. We don't think it makes sense to spend $4 million. I want to look into something that lies in the day. We don't think it's necessary to spend a lot of time in the Ministry of Transport and the NSB, which has many, many tasks for the future to focus on – they're in line, they need all the thinking and effort. Then I find it embarrassing that because the bulk of the population is unable to write their own comments and conclude on the issue of the obligation to provide information, this matter should be retrained.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e805	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e808	It was 4 June 1998 that the National Audit Office submitted its investigation into the profitability of the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban. The purpose of the study was to assess whether the Ministry of Transport had provided the Stortinget with accurate and sufficient information on the economic viability and uncertainty of the projects. Particular attention was paid to examining whether all significant cost and income factors were included in the business-economy calculations, as well as whether the management was adequately managed. The National Audit Office’s study was carried out by document analysis of a wide range of large-scale documents, investigations, budgetary audits, correspondence, relevant guidelines and expert theory. Based on the document analysis, information was obtained from the Ministry of Transport, the Swedish Aviation Administration, NSB BA and NSB Gardermobanen AS. In other words, it is a very comprehensive work behind the Riksrevision report, which was decided in the Stortingen to be sent to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee for consideration on 8 June 1998. So today, 4 April 2000, there is a proposal from a minority in the Committee, made up of representatives from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, that the Storting should set up an investigation commission. The aim of the proposal is to carry out a wide-ranging review of the investigation, planning, design and deployment of new main aerodromes for East and Gardermobanen. The proposal takes account of the fact that this Commission is to complete this extensive work by 31 January 2001 so that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee can finalise the matter in the spring of 2001. The Control and Constitutional Committee has conducted five open consultations on the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban. The starting point for the hearings, in addition to the Riksrevision report, has also been the so-called ‘Mydske’ report, which was issued on 1 September 1999, on the evaluation and implementation of the Gardermo project and other documents not specifically forwarded to the Stortinget for treatment. The hearings included four former state councils and then head of the Ministry of Transport, representatives of the Gardermo project, the Swedish Aviation Administration, the Mydske Committee, NSB BA, NSB Gardermobanen, Oslo Airport Gardermoen, the airlines and a number of other key persons. There are books on the main airport at Gardermoen and the Gardermobanen. In addition, to the Storting, through the Committee, a lot of letters have been sent from individuals and organisations. Yes, the document pile is so dense that it probably won't fit in Rome's sports, as an Oslo newspaper wrote in a comment space. The same newspaper - VG - also wrote: ‘The size of the flight has been under investigation around the main airport of Gardermoen and Gardermobanen for two years. The result of the investigations is that you want to investigate more. Now the Storting should examine itself." The time has come to carry out an evaluation of the entire consultation system in the Storting, as are the assumptions. It is not just a question of making greater demands on who is to be invited to the hearing and the objectives to be set for the conduct of the hearings, but when the hearings indicate that the committee responsible is unable to present a position for the Storting, this has, in my view, weakened the expectations of the Storting as a control body. This is serious. In a way, I believe that the Storting has lost if the majority's proposal to set up an investigation committee is adopted today. In that case, Stortinget gives a clear signal that one does not have the power to complete the case. Questions may also be asked whether the Committee has allowed the Gardermo case to grow over its ears, as I have seen from observers outside the Storting in the hearings carried out by the Committee. Instead of sticking to the main track, you've gone into one of the sidings after another. Finally, there was too much. Quite rightly, we are facing a difficult problem complex. However, in my opinion, you can also agree with the Evening Post, which in its position on March 1st this year writes the following: ‘After the open hearings, the Committee had the choice of a sharp indexing finger to the responsible or national law. Instead, one chooses to refer the problem complex to an independent investigation commission. In practice, it will mean what may appear to be a convenient postponement, but the Stortinget already has more than good grounds for completing its job as a supervisory authority.’ I totally agree with the Evening Post. The members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Workers' Party and the SV consider the whole of the Gardermo case to be sufficiently enlightened to allow the Committee, through further work – I stress through further work – to draw the necessary conclusions. We therefore find it both unnecessary and delaying with such an investigation commission. We will therefore ask the Grand Duchy that the Control and Constitutional Committee continue its work with a view to putting an end to this Spring session on the Riksrevision's investigation into the operational profitability of the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban. Although the consultations revealed conflicting views on several important issues related to the implementation of the project, this should not, at any rate, deter the Committee from promoting assessments and views through an attitude towards Stortinget. In other words, there should be enough evidence to draw conclusions. I would therefore recommend the proposal for a decision by the majority of the committee, and then by the double vote of the chairman.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e842	8 October 1992 at 2.30 p.m. 22 Anders Talleraas, the then parliamentary leader of the Right, said: ‘They have to understand those who have it – or we who have it, someone said it.’ He was going to explain the Right Kuving, support for the Gardermoen without Hobøl being vottered over. It was the second time in two years that the Right Bended the Knee for the Workers' Party in the Aerodrome. Right-wing review shall now be carried out with the support of the Right, while the government of Syses will re-introduce Hurum during the lookout. Right-wing suffering shall never end. No one was in doubt that the Workers' Party wanted to go to the Gardermoen, and that they would fight for it. They succeeded by pressing the right knee two decisive times. The first time was when Hurum was ironed out and the right agreed to continue working just with the Gardermo. Then they got a sentence into the budget later that they were going to compare this with Hobøl numbers. The second decisive time was when the Right would go further with Hobøl, but not ventured to stand out because they risked getting blamed for the split solution. The working party ran a power race, with hard internal discipline in the staging group and raw calculation that the Right, which was also characterized by internal rift, would bend away. And the Workers' Party was successful. I do not overlook the fact that there may have been some insolence during the course, that there were some officials who operated too much as politicians, that it could be cruel when the letter that Kjell Brevik wrote in the Swedish Aviation Agency was never sent. But all of us who were there knew that this was a political struggle that was decided in this room. And we knew that there weren't mainly air operations reasons that were behind Gardermoen's election, that the Workers' Party didn't smell Hobøl. That was regional justification – as Kjell Wilsberg from Braathens said in the hearing: ‘The only point at Gardermoen was the regional one.’ And we knew that. We who were here in 1988 when Hurum was adopted, in 1990 when Hurum was scolded, and in 1992 when Gardermoen was adopted, knew that one of the main reasons for Gardermoen was regional consequences. And that's a factual argument in this context, sail if the Workers' Party does not have the habit of using such arguments, cf. IT-Fornebu. When I study the hearings and read the position of the minority in the committee that will have scrutiny, which is likely to become a majority in this Chamber today because, for some reason, the Central Party, which is not in the control committee, is in this decision, I wonder what they are looking for. Otherwise, I have to say that I really wanted to ask the centre party some questions today. It has not been easy so far, as they have failed to meet in this hall. And I understand them well. They have good reasons not to participate in this debate. In the setting, this minority that wants to examine indicates that the hearings have taken place ‘partly strongly criticised both for the investigation, planning, design and implementation of the development of the new main aerodrome at Gardermoen’. Furthermore, ‘The hearings have revealed conflicting views on key issues among those actors who have had a primary responsibility for the implementation of the project.’ Is there any criticism, but is there any criticism that was not known before? What conflicting views on key issues among key actors are new? I feel in a way that you say we should have a review of everything, and then you make some specific statements that you feel that you have not received an answer to, for example.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t that it should have been a matter of course to have other equivalent investigated alternatives to compare the main aircraft project at Gardermoen with the alternative to which it was compared, namely, shared solution, was quite special, and it was based on a split of traffic that was not optimal that Hurum was dropped out of a lack of evidence that it would take no more than approx. three months to explore the Hobøl option to get a proper alternative to compare with But if it was a matter of course, why didn't the Right go in for an alternative when Hurum was scrambled, but supported the Workers' Party that only the Gardermo should be further worked on? If the centre parties and the Progress Party thought Hobøl should have been investigated – it only took a few months – why didn't they support the Right when the Right turned around on the heel and wanted an alternative anyway? Then there would have been a majority. But the Right stood alone. The centre was only concerned with the split solution, which is now manufactured as ‘special’ and not equivalent. The progress party was right enough to continue the weather measurements at Hurum, but when the decisive round came in 1992, the Progress Party was so busy building the airport privately that they signed out of the battle. I hear now that they have a rough drive towards the Gardermoen, but they left the localization discussion when the matter was decided and their own project could not get a majority. We in SV participated to scrape Hurum. We knew about the objections to the weather measurements -- there were plenty of people who wanted to tell us that -- but we didn't want a big airport at Hurum. All the other parties on the Storting knew about the objections, and some of the Right outreachers brought it up in the debate. No one with a minimum of memory can say that they don't remember these objections. In this way, it is necessary to require that the representatives of big business who have been living in the hearings, who said what was happening to each other, what was happening at that meeting, and what was said informally eight years ago, perhaps on the phone, representatives who make such demands to the participants in the hearings, should set a minimum requirement for themselves. We in SV managed to draw up a master plan for Hobøl, because we would not have the main aerodrome in Hobøl. Why did the centre parties and the Progress Party go against the Right proposal when it should have been a matter of course to have other equivalent alternatives? Many of today's actors were in this room in 1992, among others: Mr Holten, Mr Hagen and Mr Ludvigsen. Why, then, was it not a matter of course? Is that what they need to figure out during the review? Why didn't you realize the obvious at that time? And when did it become a matter of course? It would be ridiculous of us in retrospect to examine why we did it. We did what we thought was right, and there are no material facts that change this in retrospect. That someone in retrospect might have thought of playing a different role, I understand. Right and centre knew as well as we did about the objections to the weather measurements at Hurum. The Centre and the Advance Party were not the least concerned with having an equivalent alternative investigated as they did not support the Right’s proposal in the last round. And it's probably not nice for the Right to remember that the two went on their knees for the Workers' Party. Now they ask the questions they gave answers to in 1990 and 1992. But I guess that's the way the seams of the knuckles can tile. I have tried to read the hearings, and I have a strong feeling that I am in a henyard. Let me use some examples of so-called drilling: A number of committee members have major problems in putting in place the assumptions for the train’s collective share of 53 pst. was a train without a bus competition. Parallel bus concession came on 1 October 1997 – five years after the decision. Of course not all bus travelers would have used the train, but this has eaten something of the train's share. We can criticize Opseth for naivety, to present a train concept based on not going parallel buses. But at the same time we got a little ashamed to admit that we bought it uncritically. We didn't ask questions about realism in it. It's actually allowed to think as a big-time representative, too, not just in retrospect. And in fact, it was normal at the beginning of the 1990s that they said no to requests for a concession for a bus that went parallel to trains. You can agree or disagree, but it was normal, so there is no reason to react like Mr Holten, who was clearly shaken during the hearings when he said, "But it is clear that the market has to decide." It was not clear in 1992, and having a strict treatment of concessions for buses that should go parallel with trains was a policy supported by the Christian People's Party – if I remember correctly. Whether the train would have reached 53 pst. without a bus competition, we don't know. We don't get to know that either, because it won't be tried. Nor should it be tried, because together trains and buses have a very high collective share, and it should be increased and not reduced at all. My point is that the Storting cannot afterwards forget its own assumptions. When committee members at the hearings repeatedly claimed that it was not pre-injected in the Rome sport, and refused to accept that it was injected more than planned, I wondered: How hard is it to perceive things? There's no doubt that the job wasn't done well enough, it actually also recognized Ueland, but it's amazing to read how patient individual committee members are about entering their own premises that are not in a deal with reality. It seems to me that when you drilled, as some people described it, it wasn't to find the truth, but to fix those who were at the hearing, and that the level of knowledge among the committee members wasn't impressive. The committee members should perhaps have been pre-injected with knowledge before drilling and blasting, as well as with some formation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e916	As far as I can see, what is available for treatment today is not the final review of issues related to the development of airport at the Gardermoen and the expansion of the Gardermobanen. I see that the attitude that exists is a methodological clarification on how the Committee itself wants to proceed with this before drawing the final conclusions. There is therefore no reason to go specifically into the Gardermo case as it was treated here in the house, and as it was treated by various governments towards the Storting before time is in to do just that. For my part, however, I remember very well these treatments in the main hall, and I think I can agree very much with Inge Myrvoll in describing the actual political conditions on which the Storting made the various political decisions. Of course, it was among other things. There was also considerable uncertainty about the time this was taken as a political decision in Stortinget. I therefore believe, like Inge Myrvoll, that when you look at these issues, you should remember a little bit what roles different actors had when the decisions were taken at the main hall. But this is also an attitude on how the Storting should manage its own work in problematic and complex matters. In this sense, I believe that the setting has some curious entries. SV means e.g. already that there is reason to criticise former State Council Opseth. They cover that with the Riksrevision's report, and of course it has to be free of charge. I expect that the clarification and justification for that position will come when the Committee of Inquiry gives its final opinion. More curious than that, the Progress Party wishes to establish a Protocol Committee – not according to Section 14 of the Rules of Procedure, but according to Section 14(a) of the Rules of Procedure, in other words, in preparation for possible constitutional liability to some, in other words, possible national law. To get that device started, it would be thought that the actual conditions had been examined so strongly by the Progress Party that there was a basis for going to that step. Nevertheless, it is subsidized to an investigation. Subsidiary consent to an investigation must mean, where appropriate, that one should try to verify one's position, that a possible national court procedure can be initiated on the basis of the facts already established. This is a strange procedure, to put it mildly. There may probably be other reasons why there is a subsidiary approach to an examination in relation to its primary position. This could be done, for example, by: be to create a large number of surveys and that there is a point in itself. Because once you have concluded that the Progress Party has done, there is probably no reason to want an investigation. In fact, this Protocol Committee, as Mr Hagen has said, will need to obtain the information necessary to draw the constitutional conclusions. There is a position from a Musketeer set up by the Bondevik government with a very extensive mandate. There is a thorough review by the National Audit Office. A thorough documentation is available to the Committee, not least after open consultations. What more do you want to draw a conclusion — if drawing the conclusion is the main point? I wonder that, having framed a very comprehensive list of who has been heard by the committee, on page 3 of the vote, the comitem number, the supposed majority in this Chamber, says: ‘The hearings have revealed conflicting views on key issues among those actors who have had a primary responsibility for the implementation of the project. This makes it very difficult to draw safe conclusions and provide adequate and sound evidence as to cause and place responsibilities.» What does that mean? Does this mean that the comitology opinion believes that some of those who have been heard have explained incorrectly, and that in that case it must be reviewed by a commission of inquiry with more extensive legal instruments? Or does this mean what I see as relatively natural, that in such a comprehensive case, how many professionals are heard, will there be different assessments of different facts? I assume that the comitem number has not wanted to attach any suspicion to the people who have been heard during the Storting hearings. How, then, can you use as a reason to appoint a review commission that someone has explained differently, if it's a disparity of assessment? You always want that in a case like this. This should explain us – and explain us in detail – to the case-rapporteur or other representatives of the Committee's minority. The development of the control mechanisms of the Storting has been a long-standing process. There have been strong political interests in increasing the control capacity of Storting itself. However, these strong interests must first and foremost be linked to enabling the Storting to draw conclusions also in difficult areas and not to revert to these conclusions, to send matters out on new desert migrations and new consultations and to new Commission studies if this becomes an excessive task. I said in a reply earlier today that to me this seems almost like a point of convenience. None of what I have heard so far in the debate has made me change my mind on that particular point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e947	We're on the verge of a long debate, and I'm going to try not to extend it too much. But there are some of the threads that are here, which I would like the rapporteur to answer. First of all, I want to note that as I see it, claims that have been made in the press that it is “seems as if the decision to expand on the Gardermo was taken informally by some and that the Stortinget was directed against Gardermoen with unacceptable and potentially illegal information and proceedings”, known as dead and powerless. I note that no one has confirmed this as an approach to the investigation. Nevertheless, it hangs in the air both from the press and what Hagen has said here, that there may be illegal relationships that have happened in the process. Then I just have to remember that it is a matter for the police and the judiciary, and not for the Storting in that sense, with the conditions that have been in the matter here now. Then I would like to ask if it is such a way to understand that case rapporteur Holten invites the centre parties to an investigation that can turn into national law, as Hagen pointed out in his statement earlier today. Is that what the rapporteur, Holten, invites the centre parties to do? Is this review to consider as the starting point for national law against ‘one or more’ former state councils, as Hagen said in his statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e956	Let me first say to Inger Lise Husøy that if there is a case for a breach of the Liability Act, it is not a matter for the prosecution authorities and the police, but in fact a matter for Odelstinget. That's what's one of the theoretical possibilities in this case, and that's why there's a case here and not for prosecution and the police. If my proposal to amend the Constitutional Law had been accepted, there would have been a case for the police and prosecution authorities, and they had been running the case a long time ago. Then to the representative Inge Myrvoll. Inge Myrvoll says that all the representatives in 1992 were ‘certain’ a number of things in the political debate on the main airport. Then he has not seen any of the main points of getting to know the conditions in more detail. Think about it being that the then working party government and the Workers' Party had said the following: we know there are a lot of problems building a main airport on the Gardermoen, it's groundwater, de-icing fluid that can run down, there's environmental problems, there's a lot of trouble there. Yes, we know that Gardermoen is the most unlucky and expensive socio-economic site, we know that there is too much wasted travel time for passengers, which is a socio-economic loss, we know that for airlines it is far more economic to park the airport elsewhere, we know that all the practical considerations of transport policy and economics are in favour of laying the main airport to Gardermoen, but we will nevertheless be in favour of Gardermoen for regional policy reasons. The people and the business community up there need an engine to create jobs and jobs. That is why we are willing to put regional policy objectives ahead of everything relating to transport and transport, what is bad for the environment and all the professional transport and transport economic conditions. Had the Workers' Party said that, what didn't that mean for the whole debate! And the debate is not going on, as Myrvoll later believed, only in this room, but in the whole community. If you had said that you might have said to Braathens and SAS that if you don't now participate in official, public, supporting the Gardermo, we're going to sabotage a new main airfield for the next 15-20 years, and you're getting a shared solution. That was really the reason, probably, that these two airlines were in favour of the Gardermo, and were very heavily used by the Workers' Party in this Chamber in the debate and in the debate outside this Chamber. That's what the charge is, and that's what we want to investigate. For it is not just to bring the Storting behind the light, if necessary, in all the documents of the case, in propositions and things to the Stortinget, where the Government is subject to the provisions of the Liability Act – one has also in case led the Norwegian people behind the light, because the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party governments have claimed externally that the Gardermoen was the best place to lay down the airport in terms of its economic and transport economy. That's what's behind the light, in case this is the conclusion of an examination and an assessment. That's what the theoretical charge against the then workers' party governments was that instead of presenting the actual, true conditions, it was as if there were transport and transport reasons to put the airport at the Gardermoen, that it was the most constructional and the most practical. So if Inge Myrvoll then, in 1992, understood that this was in the case of humbug, that this was not right, and he knew and understood inside his head that here there were really completely different reasons for the Workers' Party's driving to get the airport to the Gardermoen, then it doesn't help, because already at that time Myrvoll didn't trust the Ministry of Transport, as he said in his post, but the opposite. Because then it had to be based on his understanding that it was not for transport and transport reasons that one wanted the airport at the Gardermoen, but for regional policy. But it didn't say that. Of course, it was an assessment theme, as Opseth also said in the hearing in response to my question – he said it also heard about looking at regional policy. But it must be clear that it comes in if you have three-four alternatives that are equally good transport and transport policy. Whenever passengers, airlines, investments, accommodation services and the airport itself are indifferent, when you can say that there are three alternatives that are equally good, then you can let regional policy assessments determine which of the three best places. In fact Myrvoll admitted that our accusations, our suspicions, are very justified, because he says straight away that he understood already at the time, and many in the Chamber already understood at the time, that there were not reasons for this election, but for transport and transport. But that was not said in the official documents. It is not clear from the argument used in this room, in landfills or outside this hall that it was not an aerodrome to be built but an engine to establish jobs and grow in a geographical area. So to Tom Thoresen, it's clear that there's a little bit of a strange way to go forward. I would like to be allowed to give honor to the Workers' Party on this matter. Because we have the situation that the Workers' Party and SV have a majority in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Storting with the double vote of the committee leader. And that is a difficult issue. It takes great sense to show respect for political realities. For in the main hall – after the last major elections – SV and the Labour Party do not have a majority. In the past, when the majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has been obtained by chance, it has been a fact that the opposition should, in reality, have the chairperson of the Committee in such a way that there is no situation in which the Government or Government parties have a majority in the Committee to carry out control activities, and in particular when it is a minority body, precisely because that majority can then prevent the necessary control activity of its own minority administration. I have strongly asserted that the closer we get to a new decision, the less important this becomes, because much of the control business is the case with previous governments. Therefore, no one had any objections when we chose a new committee leader who was also from the Workers' Party. But it requires a realistic attitude not to abuse that majority. And as I started by saying, I'd like to pay tribute to the Workers' Party for accepting that because there was a different majority in the store than in the committee, it was given some kind of preliminary position where we're told whether it should be an examination or not. So if there is a majority of a commission of inquiry, the matter will later come back to the final release of the report on the Riksaudition, because it is not being issued today. I have given tribute to the Workers' Party for accepting the political reality, so that we can first decide whether to set up a commission of inquiry or whether to conclude the committee. Here, there is a political disagreement that is quite straightforward. I am very pleased that the Labour Party did not take advantage of the formal possibility of blocking such an appropriate procedure when it was a majority in the Grand Chamber who wanted this procedure. Then you can argue against – as you have done – and I have no problem with that. It's a real political disagreement. But I hope the Workers' Party will continue to have the same attitude to this very tense political question as to whether the Workers' Party and the SV should use the double voice of the committee leader to block the majority in the main hall is sensible. The majority of representatives of a minority government actually have a control and constitution committee in the Storting, which at the same time has control over the same minority government as its principal concern, and the Stortinget and the Presidentship of the Stortinge have a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e976	It's actually signed that's on the tip of the Control and Constitutional Committee. And I've figured out, among other things. following the Committee's management of the Gardermo case, it is necessary for the Committee to find a way of working to ensure that people have confidence that there is a serious and genuine work going on in the Committee. The matters that have been involved in recent times have been dealt with in that light. It is simply because I believe that the control committee was far too far off with who was invited to hearings in the investigation of the main airport and Gardermobane case, and that some actors were allowed to make unsubstantiated claims during the hearings. I believe that we need to tighten up on the fact that those who have actually been responsible for the decisions and the information the Storting should have are the ones who should contribute to that kind of hearing. I am very surprised that neither the Central Party nor the Left have taken the floor in this debate. After all, it is the former government parties that are responsible for the creation of the Mudsk Committee. And the Musketeer has therefore provided a very good and very critical report on the development and implementation of the main aerodrome and the Gardermoban, but they were given a mandate that would not go back to 1988 or conditions before that. What, then, is the reason why the Center Party and the Left, who have not taken the floor, believe that it is now very important to go so far back? Because with respect to report, Carl I. Hagen suffers from a embarrassing memory failure in this case. It is true that the assessments of the new main aerodrome and its location had to include, of course, where the large population base to use that aerodrome actually lived. But it's the same distance from Asker to Gardermoen today as it was in 1992. It is also terrifyingly strange with which the moral pathos Advancement Party and the Right now swing to the great heights to determine why Hobøl was not investigated as an alternative to the Gardermoen and to shared solution. After all, the Progress Party did not support the Right's proposal to investigate Hobøl in its time. The progress party was quite concerned that the weather measurements at Hurum were not to be scrapped at that time, but no other initiative was taken. When you read through that debate, you can see that the Progress Party had one thought in its head, and that was privatisation. All other issues, apart from some of the problems of icing on the Gardermo, were raised in the debate, including the groundwater reservoir. Because that was a very important reason why SV would not have such a gigantic main airfield as the Workers' Party and the bulk of the population eventually wanted there. We believed that two runways, one of which was to cross the groundwater reservoir, posed a significant environmental problem. When SV focuses on this in the debate, it is because we believe that there should be some honesty in the way you consider the handling of the case by former transport ministers, in relation to what knowledge and knowledge the Storting itself had and had, what kind of interest the Storting showed, and in relation to the information you had. From the point of view of the SV, it is very reasonable to criticise the Ministry of Transport and former Minister Opseth, because the proposition presented to the Stortinget was not comprehensive in relation to the piece that concerns the profitability of the Gardermoban. Anyone who has the courage to conclude can do so today. There is no reason to believe that any kind of new investigation will be able to produce more than the Mudsk Committee and the Riksrevision in assessing what kind of decision base the Storting actually got. I await the end of the debate and I would like to know why the Central Party and the Left believe that an investigation committee should now be set up to investigate the situation well back before 1988, and would like to remind former Minister of Transport Johan J. Jakobsen that he himself, as Minister of Transport, was the one who suggested to the Stortinget that the land banding around Hobøl should be dropped.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e994	The centre party is not on the control committee. It is Marit Tingelstad who has followed this matter closely from our side, and who has had contact with the centre representatives in the committee, so that we have kept ourselves informed about what has happened. I have to say, for my part and for the centre party, that when this minority in the committee, as it says in the vote, thinks that it has not been possible, either through the hearings or in the work of the committee on the matter, to get a satisfactory answer to essential questions, it is a conclusion that we in the centre party do not have any difficulty in joining and that I find it difficult to oversee. When such a large fraction of the Committee considers that the resources and working methods of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs are not possible, it is our opinion that we in the Central Party do not wish to over-examine this large fraction in the Committee which considers that further studies are necessary. I have seen that some people believe that this weakens the reputation of Stortinget and the Stortingen Control Committee. I'm actually going to say the opposite. When one takes this matter so seriously and realizes that the form of work and resources available to this committee means that one cannot get an answer to the questions that one wants to get an answer to, I would say that there is respect for a magnificence that wants to set up its own commission to get this question evaluated. More complicated is this matter not, seen from the centre party. Then some speakers raised the question of my role as Minister of Transport in the period 1983-86. Let me say a little bit about the history. When the Korvald government announced its aerodrome announcement of the so-called Nes option, this was rejected by the Stortinget, and the majority of the Stortinge went in to establish the main aerodrome in Hobøl in Eastfold. In 1976 a total of 240 km2 was bound by the municipality of Hobøl. The plans for this giant aerodrome in Hobøl had an upper traffic ceiling of 16 million passengers per. years. Then nothing happened for many years. As the realization of the project became more and more uncertain, Hobøl strengthened the municipality's claim that this bonding had to be lifted, short and well because one felt that this bonding over the years and with an uncertain future left a damp hand over planning and development in the municipality. Before the air traffic announcement, which was presented in December 1983, and before I was promoted by the Minister of Transport and voted down a concrete proposal in Stortinget that the bonding should be lifted. As far as the aviation message is concerned, it is quite right, as has been said, that I received the government's support to propose to Stortinget that the bonding of Hobøl should be lifted. Let me also say that the majority in Stortinget – I don't know for sure how large this majority was, but at least it included the Workers' Party – gave an acceptance that the 240 km2 bonding of Hobøl Municipality was lifted. So I want to say the following for the sake of what has happened since. In the announcement made in 1983, the government and I agreed that it was Fornebu and Gardermoen in interconnection that would constitute the future main square for the Eastern region. The government joined in, and this also joined the Storting. Then we have the peculiar situation that what was actually the Storting's proposal in 1984, when the notification was dealt with, was so-called shared solution. The centre party is probably one of the few parties, together with the Christian People's Party and possibly SV, which, throughout the process from 1984 until the final decision in 1992, was on the alternative shared solution. Let me say that this is also part of history, as the question has been raised by some speakers in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1009	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1012	I had to take the floor after hearing Jacobsen's remarkable perception of what this matter was about. I want to show that Magnus Stangeland said in the evening post on 31 January this year that he thought everyone was aware of the uncertainty in 1992. Then I would like to remind you that the same Stangeland went against, and that the Senter Party was very opposed to an investigation commission when Carl I. Hagen proposed it in a Document No. Eight proposals in the 1991-92 session. I guess Stangeland is the one who's been following the Gardermoban best and the longest in the Central Party. I would also like to remind you that it is actually the case that former Minister of Transport Dørum has stood behind Opseth in that Stortinget was given sufficient information when they dealt with the matter in 1992. It's probably in connection with what people want to investigate, and it's amazing that the Center Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1021	I am asking for an understanding that I speak today from this pulpit on behalf of the Central Party and on behalf of the big group that the Central Party has in this period. I think it is a strange thing that the representative Husøy takes on the basis of how the Central Party, expressed at Magnus Stangeland, dealt with the question of investigation eight to nine years ago. This must mean that the representative, Husøy, believes that nothing has happened in the meantime that may have changed the situation. In fact, I would say that very much of what has happened in the Gardermo question has happened since the Center Party, according to Husøy, was against investigation in 1991-92, as this question was previously raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1026	I understand that it is difficult to deal with a committee where you are not, not least because in this case there is so much at the bottom, both with the Riksrevision report, the Mudske Committee and various other samples. There have been long hearings in the committee, which have not been attended. In fact, I believe that there is a very solid basis for making an assessment. I've read through the position, and when I look at what this minority, who is likely to be a majority in this hall during the afternoon, says about what are unresolved questions, Johan J. Jakobsen's post surprises me a little bit. For example, it says ‘that it should have been a matter of course to have other equivalently proven alternatives to compare the main aircraft project on the Gardermoen with’. Does the representative Jamessen need an answer to that question? They've never wanted an equivalent option. At the next point, it says ‘that the option compared to, i.e. the split solution, was very special and was based on a split of traffic that was not optimal’. But the party that most consistently went into for the divided solution all the time, was at least the center party. We in SV actually had a slightly different model in the last round, without me going to elaborate it more. But the centre party consistently went in for it and wouldn't have any other alternative figured out, for example. Hobøl etc. I don't understand why one should now examine, among other things. In order to find answers to such questions, there were questions we decided on here in the United Kingdom on the basis of very clear political assessments. Furthermore, it states ‘that Hurum’s failure was based on a lack of facts’. I think we put on a very solid factual basis when we did that. Then there was a disagreement about the interpretation of that fact, and after what I remember -- I'm also trying to remember -- nothing new came after we made the decision. We knew about the counter-conceptions already at the time. I do not understand that Johan J. Jakobsen, with the reasons given by the minority, says that it is unproblematic for him to support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1037	I record that the representative Myrvoll has the opinion that the material presented to the committee is a solid basis for drawing a conclusion here and now. That is a point of view that I respect. But then I also think that the representative of Myrvoll should be able to respect the fact that a large minority of the committee believes that this is not a sufficiently good and solid basis for drawing a conclusion today. As Myrvoll also said, in the Centre Party, we have not participated in the work of the Committee. Of course, the consultation reports and information we have received are not complete in relation to all that has taken place in the Committee. It would be quite alarming if that were the case. It must then be possible to show respect for and trust that the large minority in the Committee actually also have views on whether this is a good enough basis. When, to the best of our knowledge, this large minority has stated that there are many unanswered questions here, and that the committee's work and the Committee's resources do not provide an opportunity to go deeper into the matter, then I think the representative Myrvoll should also respect the fact that this large minority also has views on this issue. Then he should also respect that we, who are outside the committee, must be able to say that we don't want to overdo this great minority. We agree that a committee of inquiry is being set up, and I would recommend the central party's big group to vote for it when the matter comes up for voting later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1045	I understand that the representative, Jakobsen, will try out the majority rather than the minority. That's the kind of reason that I have a little bit of problems with. I would think he was looking for some answers. I tried to ask some specific questions, because I tried to read the comments from this minority who wanted to investigate, to see what they are looking for, and what I have problems understanding is that the centre party can be looking for those answers. I just have to say when it comes to having respect for it: yes, I don't know! After reading the minutes from the hearings – since I am not in the committee, I have taken the urge to read them – and after following this debate, I have to say that I have some difficulty in having that respect, because I find no consistency. And then, all of a sudden, you ask that now we examine everything. You don't have any confidence in what the Riksrevision has said, you don't have any confidence in what the Mudish Committee has said, you don't have any confidence in what a number of other samples have said, whether that's what the Surlien led, or others, etc. etc. You're going to go through everything, under time pressure and with such a composition, and then I kind of started to wonder, should I have respect for it? I have to admit, I have problems. That's why I have problems with the Center Party, the Navy if they're not on the committee and haven't followed it so closely, just plain and simple saying, "We don't want to overdo this minority." The representative Jakobsen makes a choice when he examines the majority of the committee, and then I assume that he makes a choice based on the issues you want to examine. And so I asked some specific questions: What is the need for the Central Party to review the political decisions that we made in this Chamber during tough political struggles in which he was in, and where we suffered some defeat? But we knew what we were fighting about, whether it was this to explore alternatives to the Gardermo or it was divided solution etc. So I ask the question, does he need an answer? To that he says he won't overdo the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1052	The representative Myrvoll asks the question whether we should draw up the decisions and assumptions on which the Stortinget took its decision almost eight years ago. I have actually perceived this matter so that very much of what has come up, and what has made it cause doubt and created uncertainty about this matter, are things that have been revealed after that time, after the Stortinget made its decision. In fact, a newspaper has received a journalist's prize because one has actually cleaned up parts of this. And that we should not be able to assess this issue on a more free basis today, I am surprised that the representative Myrvoll cannot accept it. Then Myrvoll says that Jakobsen and the Central Party won't overdo the minority, but we'll overdo the majority. In fact, I believe that it is a good democratic principle that when a large minority in a matter raises doubts as to whether one has reached the bottom of the matter, then the representative Myrvoll must also have respect for the fact that I do not want to overdo this great minority. We want short and good to get the cards on the table, so easy it is, and I also think SV can now accept that. And I want to refer to what's at the very end of the comments from this minority: ‘These members consider it important for confidence in the democratic system that all aspects of the matter be carefully examined.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1062	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1065	It has gradually become a long debate and, with its length and scope, it could be understood that statements and views could also be requested from the two parties not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee. The fact that you are not represented is also that the work has to be followed from outside, and it is not without a doubt that the undersigned has had the primary responsibility for it. I was going to say that I essentially joined what Johan J. Jakobsen said on behalf of the Center Party. Now it is the relationship in this case that the centre party in stages of the case has had a much closer relationship with the matter than the left for natural reasons. And I get to say it so that I join the most significant of what Johan J. Jakobsen has said so far concerns assessments and questions relating to relationships today, and then I allow myself to jump off as to what is more of a character of history writing and more of a character of having a past in the matter, which is also going to be more of a direct actor in it. Of course, I can't have any relationship with that. When you read the committee setting, you have to conclude that there are actually four different positions in the committee. Firstly, you have the largest fraction, the Workers' Party, which believes that the Committee should continue to work on the matter on the basis that exists, with a view to concluding the matter, as far as I understand, during the spring. That fraction ends, as far as I understand it, however, with the special position that SV believes that you already per. Today, it can be concluded with a relatively serious criticism of the Minister for Transport at that time, at least for part of the case. Then we have the Progress Party, as I understand it, in the situation that they think it is possible to conclude that we should go more directly to the preparatory work with a view to a protocol committee to assess matters of national law. And finally, we have the Christian People's Party and the Right, which, with the subsidiary support of the Progress Party – whether the membership is subsidiary or principal, it may be a bit difficult to see the comments, but it is less important, at least the support of the Advance Party – to say that one wants a review commission in order to obtain a better actual basis for the judgements that the Stortinget, in that case at Odelstinget, must make in relation to the whole matter. I believe that in a situation where there are so many different opinions and positions in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, it is in many ways very close and, in my opinion, sensible for parties not directly involved in this work to want to better clarify the situation and the facts. Then it is quite right that the representative Kristin Halvorsen has stressed that it is the Stortinget that, among other things. shall assess whether the disclosure obligation in relation to the Storting has been breached. That's definitely right. And when that assessment itself is to be made, it is limited which assistance could be provided by a review commission, but at the same time it is important that a number of facts are clarified as well as possible as a basis for assessment. And that's this actual basis Left believes can be better investigated, and we therefore join the large fraction of the committee that believes that this can be investigated in a better way before the Storting should make the final decision. It is true that this case has been subject to a long procedure, both before the decision was taken in 1992 and now in the context of the examination of the case. Now it is well that the fact that in our time we have had a long treatment period for the main thing, perhaps it makes it natural that the control case can also get a certain amount and take its time. I don't think there is necessarily any particular misunderstanding between wanting to better clarify the actual basis of an assessment and spending a little more year to carry out the verification case. So I would like to remind you that for the left, we are in the situation that we were outside of the Storting in the 1985-93 period. This makes us, therefore, lacking – in this context, I would like to say most unpleasantly – in relation to all the processes associated with the decision itself in 1992, the previous decision in 1988 and all the things related around it. When I hear parts of the debate today, it is one of the few times I would suggest that I could almost be happy that the Left was not present at the Storting in the two periods. I can guarantee that it is not a general pleasure, but that precisely in relation to this matter it could almost be a question of expressing it. The question was then addressed before and after 1988 in relation to the Mudske Committee. To this end, when the Control Committee finds that there are aspects that have not been dealt with by the Mudsk Committee which could be considered further, I would be surprised if, in the course of a check, it were not to be allowed to open up control in a wider perspective than what might have been assessed and examined in advance. In conclusion, I think perhaps this debate is somewhat influenced by the fact that, in relation to the control of the case, the positions you had at the time – and I am talking about 1992 and to some extent ahead of it – were taken up by the content of the case. It's actually a control matter we're dealing with, and there might be a certain ability for all parties and parties to rise above the positions they took to reality at an earlier point in time, and just to assess the matter from a control point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1091	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1094	The centre party would not outrun the minority in the control committee, and it is the same line left now. But I have a duty to make it clear that those who are being run over here are members of the Bondevik government – that is what is about to happen. That is, in particular, Mr Hoves' party trap. The door that is being run over in this case, because that is what this is about. It is the facts that former state council Dørum has put his name under, drawn into doubt. Otherwise, there is not much new information that has emerged. I will quote the letter from Hoves Partisan Dørum to the Riksrevision: ‘In the view of the Ministry of Transport, the Stortinget was given sufficient and relevant information on the basis of the Government’s recommendation on the development of Gardermoen and Gardermobanen.’ It is this which is one of the core points, and the disagreement between the majority and the minority in the Committee is about. This is also a disqualification of the government-appointed Mydske Committee, which has gone into most areas. I would also like to add that Dørum's statement here is confirmed by former Minister of Transport Fjærvoll. It's actually the center parties that decide this matter here today. The working party and SV believe that we have enough information to conclude during the spring, but we were therefore stopped in our work. If we had continued, we could also have given this matter a very thorough treatment – and concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1106	I think the representative Husøy is in a very good way clarifying, and, in my opinion, reveals the Workers' Party's position on control matters and control issues. I therefore understand that it is a significant point for the Workers' Party that the intermediate parties – the central parties – make a different assessment from that of the former State Council of Dørum and, in so far as the former State Council of Færvoll has also done so. In fact, I think that in a matter related to the control of the Storting, one should also be willing to try out one's own state councils. I record that the representative here, Husøy, must be that the Workers' Party's representatives on the Control and Constitutional Committee alone have the task of defending former workers' party governments and their positions on this matter, and not to carry out any checks and verifications. Then there's a question of whether there's a review or overrun of the former government council Dørum. In our opinion, it's not. In so far as you are going to talk about driving, it would be possible to drive past it, or to run a stretch in addition to the one that the Council of State Dørum offered to drive, and I actually don't think there is any particular problem to be involved in. Then I register that both the Workers' Party and SV say very clearly that we have an adequate basis. But they draw different conclusions, as far as I can get, on the actual basis, which both parties say they have enough of. Or is it the case that the Workers' Party is on SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1120	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1125	I must respectfully inform both Jakobsen and Hove that I believe that the posts that were now held were with autopilot. You cannot believe, without going into the matter – as both reveal – that every time someone asks for a review, Storting's opinion should be that it should be. The big problem is that people don't get respect for what the Storting is doing in terms of control tasks, that people don't get respect when a magnificence that has tons of reports and reviews in a case can't come to a conclusion, but must reduce new difficult investigations with a very broad mandate. In any case, SV has enough documentation through what is in the staging proposition, through the job of the Mydske Committee, through the reference groups and verification reports presented before the staging proposition came to Stortinget. We have more than enough evidence to agree with the Riksrevision when they conclude in: Opseth did not give the Storting proper information. Why in the world can't the Center Party and the Left be part of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1130	I'm sorry to take the floor again, but it almost became necessary after the rhetorical railing the representative Hagen had here recently. To put it like that, you don't discuss that much, it's kind of the rhetoric that matters. Because it is clear that the Workers' Party also justified the professional choice of the Gardermoen. In the proposition submitted, there was a large chapter on regional impact. They did not conceal that there was an important element for them — how it would affect local development, how it would affect centralisation, how it would distort the growth of housing and jobs, etc. It was an important piece of Gardermoen, and I think it was what separates the Gardermoen from other alternatives for the Workers' Party – not the airline. In the debate that went on then – I did not support either the Gardermo proposal of the Labour Party or the Hobøl proposal – I said the following: ‘Localisation of aerodromes is also of regional importance, and we see it as positive that we can avoid putting greater pressure on already-pressed areas in Oslo and at Oslo. Hobøl will undoubtedly be more centralizing than the Gardermoen.’ It was part of the debate; now I quoted from my sea, and there were several who were occupied with that piece there. It was an important part of the debate, but not the only one. If the Gardermoen option had not been useful for flying, I don't think the Workers' Party would have chosen it either. It is not that in all areas it scores so much worse than other alternatives. In some areas, it does, in some areas, it does it better. This, I think, was an important element for the Workers' Party. They may then defend themselves further, but I just don't feel the kind of rhetorical debate that doesn't go into the heart of the matter. I have to say to the representative Hove: when you run with control, you have to kind of rise above the content of the positions you had at the time. The point is that this minority in the committee, which seems to be a majority in this Chamber, is asking questions that you will have answers to that which has to do with the political process, the fight on the political arena, which we decided here in a political dispute, where they have then forgotten their own positions. The representative Hove doesn't have a point of view from that time. It had to be nice to be able to look back: what did we do? And then maybe you wouldn't have been sitting here, you could have been free. Because in the light of the after-clock I have to say that there are many who have now suddenly come to completely different conclusions than at the time. I have to say I am very surprised that the Central Party still feels the need to investigate why one did not have an equivalent alternative to compare the Gardermo with, that one will examine why one compares to a shared solution that was a little special, that one feels the need to examine that Hurum was abducted, built on a lack of facts, cf. The government, Syse, really scrambled, with Lars Jakob Lie from the Christian People's Party as Minister of Transport, and that, as you can see, it would not have taken more than three months to investigate Hobøl – we knew that it was not a long process. But neither the Center Party nor the SV wanted it. And why would we examine whether we made any decisions we didn't want to make? It is possible that we now need to examine the rights and history of big business representatives, but that is not what you have asked for here – perhaps that is what you should ask for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1146	The President assumes that it was the representative Lars Gunnar Lie Inge Myrvoll referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1150	Yes. I said something else, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1157	Yes, but then we have solved it. It's gonna be a line change, Harald Hove.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1162	I thought I should have the word to...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1169	...replication, yes. Or is it for post? That's the same thing for the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1172	Let's try a line. The problem is that I had a comment that probably also went a little bit on the posts of the representative Kristin Halvorsen, but I do not ignore the fact that Inge Myrvoll might be able to answer that too. In his last speech, the representative Myrvoll was concerned about the political process in relation to the Storting. In an earlier case in ours, Telia-Telenor, one was also concerned about the obligation to provide information to Stortinget. I should not have said that SV in this case and in the Telia-Telenor case had a different attitude to these questions. I might have been tempted to claim that it might seem that the Workers' Party might have. But in that case, it was a significant point for the representative Myrvoll that the minority also had a right to have a good information basis for their positions. And isn't that exactly what it's all about, in that case a little bit on the road, also in this case: lack of information for the Storting, which could be involved and influence the positions taken, perhaps the arguments you had for the positions you had taken? There's something about the relationship between the position you took in 1992 and what you're going to think of today as a matter of control, which I'm actually not quite capable of getting along with, and I may not be able to fully understand the relationship between the premises of the representative Myrvoll in the Telia-Telenor case, and what was at least partly claimed today. So finally this with autopilot and that every time someone asks for an examination, you should go in for it. We are not going to autopilot either in the Center Party or in the Left in this case. But: it's not anyone asking for scrutiny, it's actually the three largest opposition parties that do it in the committee, and we agree with Odd Holten's views on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1183	I would like to thank the representative Hove for taking up the comparison with Telia-Telenor. For there it was actually so that we had not had the Riksrevision in it, we had no suspicious selection, and we had no other selection. The Transport Committee held an open hearing and tried to obtain as much data as possible on the table. I believe that in that case we were poorly informed, not least we who were in a minority at the time. The committee managed to draw its conclusions from a hearing, and nothing more, while there has been an infinite process, with samples, hearings, etc., plus the National Audit Office. And then you say, "We're going to re-excavate everything." We're going to have a review that covers absolutely all of the areas. Nothing has been answered yet. The comparison really falls on its great unreasonableness. You could work to find conclusions from the material you have, and if you had any additional questions after the hearings, you could – as was mentioned many times during the hearings – then get an answer to them. That's not what you wanted. I just have to say that I think this is a very unprofessional way of working, and I think there's a lot of different motives for what there might be a majority for here in the hall. Some have been controlled by autopilot, as has been said before, while in the Progress Party they were really ready to conclude. But then, when you don't get a majority, you add up to a further review. I have a little bigger problems to realize that the Right wants to sprinkle salt in its own open wounds – but I often have problems getting to the Right. In the case of the Center Party and the Left, I really understand that it is just as good to follow the center and not already show a split in the block, without getting involved in either the hearings or the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1201	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2676]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1215	I am pleased to have been given the opportunity to explain the Government's disarmament policy priorities prior to the Supervisory Conference for the agreement on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in New York on 24 April – 19 May. Norway’s participation in international disarmament and non-proliferation policies is an important part of our security policy. The agreement on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is central to this work. The agreement is a cornerstone of the non-proliferation regime. It forms the basis of international law for preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and reducing existing nuclear arsenals. The supervisory process of the non-proliferation agreement allows us to address issues and initiatives that can strengthen our common security. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the export of rocket technology and the transfer of technological knowledge about such weapons to irresponsible regimes or groups are part of the new threat picture. This development must be taken seriously. We are now facing the Sixth Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference in New York. I will attend the conference myself and keep the Norwegian article in the general debate. Over the last few years, we have been faced with a firm negotiating situation with regard to the follow-up to the Non-Proliferation Agreement. This gives cause for concern. After a period of considerable progress in nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, from 1991 to 1996, when the probation agreement was signed, the world community has been confronted with very different developments. Work on new strategic strength reductions between the United States and Russia has stopped. The 1993 START II Agreement has not yet been ratified by the Russian National Assembly. This has blocked further progress in other areas. At the same time, some countries have built up their nuclear arsenals. Indian and Pakistan's trials in the spring of 1998 were not only an attack on the non-proliferation regime and international security, but also against the idea that social and economic development must prevail over military power. North Korea's long-range rocket development programme is alarming. North Korea has already tested a carrier rocket and appears to be preparing new rocket samples. The unbridled situation in the Middle East regarding missile and nuclear programmes is also worrying. At the same time, China is implementing a modernisation programme for its strategic forces. Much indicates that Russia attaches increased importance to nuclear weapons in its military strategy. The United States, on its part, appears increasingly to adopt a unilateral approach to its disarmament and non-proliferation policies. An example of this is the American Senate’s refusal to approve the probation agreement, which makes it difficult to conclude the agreement. The failure of the US Senate to conclude the probation agreement is deeply regrettable. The decision gives a very unfortunate political signal at a time when the non-proliferation regime is under pressure. However, President Clinton's work on ensuring the ratification of the probationary agreement and his commitment to continue the unilateral moratorium on probation is positive. The U.S. plans for a limited national rocket defence, NMD, to protect American territory from rocket attacks involving weapons of mass destruction by irresponsible regimes or terrorist groups meet with many questions now in Europe, including from the Norwegian side. As you know, the United States has not yet taken a decision on the deployment of such a limited missile defence. We share the American concern about the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and rocket technology to irresponsible groups and regimes. But at the same time, we see the anti-missile defence agreement, the ABM agreement, between Russia and the United States as a cornerstone of the international agreement on arms control and disarmament. It would be very unfortunate if the ABM agreement were weakened as a result of unilateral measures. It is our wish that Russia and the United States come to an agreement in a way that preserves the ABM agreement as a cornerstone of the strategic balance. We are also concerned about facilitating positive developments and further reductions in strategic weapons through the US-Russia dialogue. The Government has three overall objectives for the Conference of Supervisors and further efforts to create a new donor in the international disarmament and non-proliferation work. Firstly, we must maintain and defend the results of the 1995 Conference of Supervisors. It is important to prevent these from weakening. Secondly, we need to revitalise and improve the supervisory process of the Non-Proliferation Agreement itself. This is to contribute to the embellishment of locked processes at the Geneva Disarmament Conference. Thirdly, we need to strengthen the content of the non-proliferation agreement process through concrete proposals and actions that can work together, as well as stimulating increased cooperation between nuclear powers and countries without nuclear weapons. In the following I will explain in more detail how the Government believes these objectives can be pursued. The agreement was extended indefinitely during the previous non-proliferation supervisory conference in 1995. This decision was linked to two other important decisions: the first decision on ‘Principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament’, which committed the parties to concrete objectives for further work on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. Secondly, the decision to establish a separate supervisory process to discuss how such objectives can best be achieved and what new measures and initiatives should be developed. We have to recognise that the supervisory process for the Non-Proliferation Agreement has not worked as we would like. We believe that it is now essential for the credibility of the Non-Proliferation Agreement to create a process that can contribute to a new giver in this work. It is necessary to develop mechanisms to strengthen the possibilities for implementing the measures adopted by the forthcoming Conference of Supervisors. A thorough evaluation of the supervisory review process is also necessary. We will therefore make proposals for actions that can help to make the process itself more operational. In this context, I would like to point out a few elements that can be included in a strategy to reinvigorate the supervisory process. Firstly, it is very important to maintain the objectives of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation adopted at the 1995 Conference of Supervisors. Few of these are realized today. Honorable exceptions are the negotiations for the trial suspension agreement and the IAEA Additional Protocol for enhanced security controls. The objectives of the 1995 Conference of Supervisors must be maintained as important for further work and not be subject to renegotiation. Secondly, there is a need for a better mechanism to help translate the objectives into practical action. A separate supervisory action programme may play such a role. Such a programme should also include new measures and initiatives, in addition to meeting previously unimplemented objectives. The annual meetings of the supervisory process must contribute to the implementation of the action programme until the next supervisory conference. The Indian and Pakistan test explosions focused strongly on the relationship between unstable regional security environments and the risk of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We want the supervisory process to now address regional issues in a non-proliferation and disarmament context. The underlying political contradictions in the region should be in focus. Today, only the Middle East situation requires the parties to the Non-Proliferation Agreement to discuss. In my view, regional discussions for the future should be made more balanced and holistic by drawing up a package of regional issues to be addressed at the annual meetings of the supervisory process. In addition to the Middle East, such a package should also cover South Asia. At the same time, it is important to consider situations in which the parties to the Non-Proliferation Agreement do not comply with their obligations under the Agreement. It is of great importance for the further disarmament process that the US and Russia continue the START negotiations with a view to further strategic strength reductions. The desire for Russia to ratify the START II is shared by all in this room. The hope is that this will be a reality when the Duma deals with the matter in the near future. In addition, new measures for strategic arms control, such as the United States and Russia, should be implemented. concrete measures on the transparency of the respective stocks of strategic nuclear warheads. This was agreed by Presidents Clinton and Yeltsin on a principle basis at the Helsinki Summit in 1997. START III negotiations and concrete transparency measures on strategic stocks are also initiatives that could significantly contribute to a more constructive cooperation climate. It is now necessary to raise awareness of the tactical nuclear weapons and raise this issue on the international disarmament policy agenda. On the Russian side, thousands of such weapons have been withdrawn and stored, but their status in Russian defence planning and the circumstances surrounding the storage conditions are unclear. Such weapons may be weaned and must therefore be properly secured and controlled. It is therefore important to ensure that the handling and dismantling of such weapons is part of the wider disarmament process. Increased transparency about non-strategic nuclear weapons could also be an important confidence measure. The unilateral Russian and US declarations of partial withdrawal and destruction of tactical nuclear weapons from 1991 should now be clarified and reconfirmed. The United States has implemented measures. It would be desirable if you could also follow up on the Russian side in a similar way. I will address another serious question. There are today large quantities of weapons-grade plutonium and high-rich uranium that are stored unsatisfactoryly. This poses both a significant risk of spread and a major environmental problem. Increased awareness of these problems is needed. It is necessary to find satisfactory arrangements for control and proper management. At the same time, one must be aware that this is very costly and technologically complicated. The challenges are major and require a comprehensive international effort. Norway attaches great importance to this work. Unsatisfactory mechanisms for the control and verification of stocks of fissile weapon materials pose a threat to global security. These conditions also have a negative impact on the progress of the disarmament process. No disarmament agreements have so far covered these issues. It is therefore necessary to develop a comprehensive strategy to ensure better control, greater transparency and to contribute to the reduction of stocks of such material. The central element of such a strategy must be a contractual ban on the future production of fissile materials for weapons purposes. However, this is not enough. Existing stocks must also be handled. We need to find appropriate ways to treat the large quantities of high-rich uranium and weapons-grade plutonium released and phased out from the military sector. This material can be quickly derived and used for weapon production if politically desirable. It is also necessary to manage the quantity of high-rich uranium contained as fuel in nuclear-powered ships. Both surplus material from the military sector and fissile fuel utilisation material poses a significant risk of dispersal. Furthermore, steps should be taken to increase transparency about existing military stocks and fissile materials. The objective must be net reductions through voluntary, trusting measures. In order to ensure an overall approach, Norway has already submitted a number of proposals in the framework of the supervisory review process. At the conference in New York, we will continue to work to win approval of the Norwegian proposals. The Conference on Disarmament in Geneva is the only permanent forum for multilateral discussions and negotiations on disarmament and arms control. The world community has a legitimate interest in being informed about the policies of nuclear power and the pursuit of further nuclear disarmament. Although the nuclear powers themselves are responsible for building up nuclear arsenals, multilateral arrangements should be established to ensure greater transparency, enhanced dialogue and an improved exchange of information on such issues. This could also enable nuclear powers to inform about their disarmament policies and various aspects of their nuclear doctrines. Increased transparency from nuclear powers on these issues is important, not least for the cooperation climate in the international disarmament forums. Norway, together with Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy and Germany, has therefore taken the initiative and submitted a proposal to the Geneva Disarmament Conference on Nuclear Disarmament Dialogue and Information Exchange. The proposal has so far aroused widespread interest. We have also committed ourselves to reforming the Disarmament Conference with a view to ensuring maximum representativeness and more efficient work. Norway wants the Geneva Disarmament Conference to become a universal forum by allowing all States that wish to do so to become full members. The Government is pleased that the NATO Summit in Washington in April 1999 mandated a new and broad review of NATO's work on nuclear arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation. Extensive work is now under way in NATO to assess options for various confidence and security-creating measures, verification, non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament. From the Norwegian side, we want an overall approach and visible results of the process. The objective must be to identify specific areas of activity where NATO can and should play a stronger role. In NATO, a number of committees are now in the process of designing contributions to their fields of work for this process. During the year, NATO will carry out an assessment of the alliance's contribution to the entire disarmament agenda. A report on the work shall be presented to NATO ministerial meetings later this year. It is important that we contribute through such a process to greater transparency. We also want to make visible how the alliance will work forward to strengthen its efforts for arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation. NATO may not have been well enough informed about the significant reductions over the past decade. In particular, a reduction of more than 85 pst has been made. by NATO's tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. We live in a world of great change. The management of security issues is becoming increasingly complicated. Future security will depend on an interaction between carefully coordinated regional and global initiatives and actions. We depend on our success in international cooperation for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. The objective must be new, concrete and lasting results that promote our common security. As I have pointed out, the non-proliferation regime has recently come under pressure. We are unquestionably facing a very difficult supervisory conference in New York later this month and into the next. This must spur us on to greater efforts to find coherent solutions to the challenges we are facing today. The government is determined to do its utmost to help preserve what we have already achieved, and work for the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime and nuclear disarmament. In this way, we contribute to strengthening the international security system while at the same time safeguarding our own national security interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1303	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs be put to the vote at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1315	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2677]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1329	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time of the President's introductory speech be set at 15 minutes and that the maximum speaking time of the main speakers of each party group, parliamentary leaders and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a change of lines of up to five lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and parliamentary leaders, as well as after contributions by members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1336	The money reported in this message was already allowed in the 2000 budget. In the debate on that budget, on 10 December 1999, I stated on behalf of the Committee that the Ministry could base the main lines of the message until the Stortinge had dealt with the gross domestic product itself. I also said that the message would be treated equally over the New Year. It would seem to be a truth with certain modifications. The opinion was presented by the Committee on 9 March. When the debate does not take place until 4 April, there are several reasons why. The last delay was among others. because of the government change. The setting has been nearly co-ordinated. That's why there's no reason why it's taken so long. The permissions are very large and go to an area that is crucial for peace and development in Europe. Therefore, it is only right and reasonable that the Storting also takes a view of the use of the money, and could possibly go into the background of the use of the money. It is certainly a strength that there is something close to a full deal about Norwegian Balkan policy in the Stortinget. If this option is not consistent, the way small minorities stand out is the way it is. It is the Progress Party, which does not want to discuss changes in sanctions against Yugoslavia, as the others will. They also do not want one to take into account equality in cooperation. It's SV, which in some cases will go a little bit further than the multiple. They will include: have one-sided Norwegian measures in connection with the amendment of the sanctions. This setting does not deal with evaluations or evaluations of developments in the Western Balkans during the last few years. This setting only deals with the current holder of what is going to happen in the years ahead. As of last year, the large majority in Stortinget have decided that coordination and work sharing should be the rule for Norwegian efforts. Norwegian participation should be part of an international division of labour. The humanitarian effort, political stabilisation and economic development are more important than the flag of the money being spent. The Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe is the framework for this work. Here the economic and political work was to be brought together. The Stability Pact is a unique structure for coordinating international efforts. The problem so far is that the construction has not worked. Since the Foreign Affairs Committee gave its opinion, we have, however, seen a few important events. The EU Summit in Lisbon is the one where the general conclusions must be a step forward towards more concrete action. The comments after the last week's dealership meeting are also such that they give a certain hope. The EU appears to be able to take on clearer leadership and responsibility. That's good, because there's no leadership. Some of the most important things in this meeting will thus be the assessments of the foreign minister after these two meetings, in the EU and above all in the donor country group, and the kind of views he has on the future of these meetings. If it should appear that even this time only ends in words, Norway, together with others, should take initiatives for more concrete action, possibly focusing on purely Norwegian priorities. International coordination does not mean that we should bow to international failures when time is running out. However, I hope that we will now see the beginning of a more effective effort in the area, where priorities come as a result of international coordination. I should therefore further focus on some more general points of view on the situation in the area and possible priorities in the work. The message is then also about the main features of cooperation. In addition to what I come up with here, I see the setting and other articles in this debate. I'm in agreement with the Department of the Geographical Limitation of Work. This means that it is Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, Albania and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, i.e. Serbia and Montenegro, which will be at the forefront of their work. Kosovo is another natural centre, which requires a very special attention and which is part of the Republic of Yugoslavia. Romania and Bulgaria have suffered major economic losses over the years of conflicts in the region. The Department believes that there is no ‘essential’ gift support for these countries. I wrote this down. When the department says a lot, it probably means that this kind of help can come up with a speech. For this reason, the Committee notes that there is a positive view of possible redeployment, possibly additional allocation of funds to these areas. The objective is stabilisation and development. Then there is the need and not categorisation in relation to the definition of what assistance is, which is the decisive thing. This whole note is a follow-up to what the Government has put forward when it comes to cooperation with Romania and Bulgaria. The Committee has also identified the situation in Moldova, Romania's neighbouring country, as being particularly difficult. As Moldova falls outside the scope of this message, it says with this note, but I ask that this be emphasized in other contexts. There is a need for humanitarian action, aid and cooperation in general, not to say all, parts of the area covered by the Stability Pact. Stability and development are the objectives of the work, and then there is a need to identify where unrest and conflict have arisen. I think it's the two big ones in the former Yugoslavia that are the central ones here. Developments in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and in Croatia determine the future for most neighbouring countries. A concentrated effort in these two countries is therefore important. In other words, emphasis must be placed on strategic political priorities in addition to purely humanitarian ones. Sanctions against Yugoslavia prevent change in this country. Penalties should be changed. More should be done than remove the flight ban, as was recently done. Penalties should be targeted at Milosevic and the others charged with crimes against human beings. Other sanctions should be lifted, except for the weapons boycott. This does not mean that Norway should launch unilateral measures. Nor shall Norway become a footnote country in all meetings of Western cooperation. This is an expression of a desire to change the common policy, and it is not unique that this view appears in Norway. There are many in Europe who share this view, even at the highest level, but not all. That's why it's important that one gives expression to such a view. Of course, Milosevic will be able to make such a change as one says. On the other hand, he lives his political life on the sanctions, on the isolation. He has for a long time built power saying on the manipulation and management of the media and the public debate on one side, conflicts and external enemies on the other. His greatest enemy is normality, debate and lack. The sanctions, as they are, have no clear grounds for doing so. They are agreed, but there are unclear requirements that will be imposed for them to be lifted. It is unclear whether the sanctions are directed to the people who do not throw the leaders, or to the leaders themselves. In a statement by the Council of the European Union following a meeting of representatives of the Yugoslav opposition on 11 October 1999, the Council rightly announces new measures when the governments of Yugoslavia and Serbia are under democratic control, as it is called, and when those accused by the Court of War are out of government, and when Yugoslavia cooperates with the Court of Justice. This is a kind of foundation, but in my view it only reinforces the view that the sanctions should be directed at the leaders as much as possible and at the least possible towards the people in general. I don't think today's policy is going on. I hope I'm wrong, but I don't believe it. In fact, Yugoslavia is becoming more and more criminalised and corrupt. That's how isolation works. Few have extensive contact with the outside world, and the material situation is getting worse. Poverty is rarely the fastest way to democracy. In addition, many strange myths emerge both in the country and outside. One of these growing up outside is that there is a long and close cooperation between Moscow and Belgrade. This is a historyless vision, either looking at the Tito period, the 1980s interplay, or the Milosevic period. Milosevic does not support Yeltsin during the coup trial in Moscow, and it is not without reason that it is Iraq and Belarus that are often referred to in Belgrade when one is to find neighbouring states. This will not be changed by the flood of Chinese being observed in Yugoslavia at the moment. The point is that the sanctions have not led Yugoslavia closer to democratic rule. It has led into isolation, but not closer to democracy. We have just secured some form of stability in the region, but this is above all a huge military effort. This is not a permanent stability. Within the limits set by the sanctions, humanitarian work in Yugoslavia should be given the highest priority. About half a million refugees, or maybe more, are there. Norway should view refugees in Yugoslavia as a particularly important task. Work for refugees is important in itself, but it does not seem that other countries regard this as an important task. It makes it extra important that someone shed light on this situation. These refugees come from acts of war in Bosnia, Croatia and Kosovo. Other international work in Yugoslavia should also be supported. This applies to the cities of friendship. Example of this is Narvik and Kikinda. Cooperation between independent organisations and groups should also be supported, whether in cultural, academic or political terms, in order to increase international contact. Wide international cooperation is necessary to prevent new conflicts in the Western Balkans. This, of course, also applies in relation to the other parts of Yugoslavia, such as Kosovo and Montenegro. It is important to use the space for cooperation with Montenegro. Montenegro is not part of the sanctions, although they are part of the Federation. Cooperation there must aim at economic and political development, but as much as they must help to avoid confrontation within the Federation. Of course, economic cooperation should be important, but this stops the sanctions. In practice, this too would be difficult in Montenegro, because it is part of the Federation. The elections in Croatia may prove to be one of the most important individual events in the War Army of the Western Balkans. The new lease, both the president and the government, has come with a signal of reconciliation and repatriation. This is important for Croatia, but it is at least as important in relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Yugoslavia. It is normalisation in Yugoslavia and Croatia that can lead to normalisation in Bosnia. Many have sent good greetings to the new leaders. If this happens only with greetings, the leaders will not be allowed. It's been five years since the last acts of war in that area. The debate now is not primarily about guilt or innocence, but about opening wounds like one's trying to heal. If the refugees are to be able to return, they will need housing. Where Croatian refugees have taken over property after those who have fled, they need new property, or they have to be able to move back to, for example. Bosnia and Herzegovina. There must be money, not for the refugees alone, but for the economics of other parts of the country as well. As it looks now, a targeted effort is also needed in Croatia. This focus on Yugoslavia and Croatia does not mean that the others will be sidestepped. There's a need for a cure. Tragedy over the last ten years has been a lack of healing. At the same time, it has to be a priority. The fact is that the concerns of the two big ones are a concern for everyone – therefore this priority I have had here. Both in Bosnia and Kosovo, we must be prepared for a long international military presence. In Bosnia there is a germ of civil society that should be able to bear a normal economy every now and then. In Kosovo, the most immediate problems in terms of administration and law and order have not been solved. Coordination of efforts there seems to be the most urgent. Macedonia, too, lives on a cutting edge. In many ways, it was Macedonia's concern that last year there was a armed conflict in Kosovo. The destabilisation of Macedonia is easily a destabilization of the South Balkans. Normal economic activity and international trade must aim at developments in all countries. This must be overarching with the goal of effort and the best help. The transition to normal international trade and external free trade agreements are important objectives for several governments in the area. The government of Norway should place great emphasis on trade policy measures. It is important to help with the technical changes, but it is also important to help financially with the transition from one trading system to another, so that welfare and security do not disappear with the changes. Industrial cooperation should be long-term. It should focus on local and regional deliveries and on the transfer of competences and the building up of competences locally. Work must be a long-term goal. This will tease all the parts best. It is natural that Norway has the same commitments in relation to the companies that invest, as is the case with the other major donor countries. However, on the other hand, it is also natural that Norway is working for a balanced decoupling, so that the help is most effective. Many of the difficulties in the Western Balkans are the same as one sees in other areas of conflict. There is a lack of coordination, it is the emergence of an international society in the countries concerned and perhaps an artificial economy other than the national one. A classic example of these problems is that international private and public organisations confiscate important infrastructure and resources in the countries. It could be buildings, but it could be, for example, also include the use of resources. Many of the most qualified in the countries concerned are working for international organisations rather than building their own economy. Classic examples of this are the many ills who work as an interpreter, because being an interpreter is much better than being a doctor. Norway must also take initiatives to strengthen international cooperation in this area in order to avoid such unfortunate distortions of resource use in the countries concerned. Finally, a few words about the Court of War Crimes in The Hague. This plays an important role in the declared post-election role in the Balkans. It will also play an important role in the future, and it is therefore important to strengthen the Court and to uphold the Authority. The Court of Justice shall be a court, not a political actor, other than that. However, in its eagerness to ignore political considerations, the Court may have a political role to play. It is important that those responsible are aware of this when making their decisions, including in the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1430	I agree with the positive starting point we have, with the broad agreement on the Balkans policy, but I note the relatively strong settlement that the rapporteur took with regard to the sanctions and how they work. He now seems to go a little further than a large majority in the committee wanted to formulate, almost in the direction of lifting the sanctions, rather than – as stated in the vote – trying to change them. In other words, one needs to look at a slightly different level of penalties that may still have a function in terms of provoking changes in the management of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the penalties that do not work. Now, of course, I agree that one must critically discuss these questions. On the one hand, it is a difficult balance to implement measures to force changes and, on the other, to live with the fact that, unfortunately, such sanctions do take the innocent third party. I still think it was unnecessary to ask the question whether these sanctions are directed to the people who are unable to get rid of their leaders, as he said, or whether they are directed at the leaders of the regime. It is clear that the purpose of the sanctions was to force a change, but the question is, Do they work? I also believe that similar questions can be raised about the sanctions that have been adopted with regard to Iraq and the regime in Iraq, and I have noticed that the representative of Blankenborg has also raised very critical questions there. I would therefore like to ask the question of Blankenborg: are these critical positions an expression of a more general scepticism for sanctions at all, or is it in relation to the two regimes which he has highlighted specifically in the press and in the public, namely the regimes of Serbia and Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1439	Each regime, each sanctioning regime, must be assessed separately, and it must be assessed in accordance with the objectives of the sanctions. There is a great difference between the sanctions against Iraq and the sanctions against Yugoslavia. Iraq sanctions have a clearer purpose, which comes out of UN decisions to control and control on one side the storage, use and production of weapons of mass destruction and on the other side the national integrity of Kuwait, etc. There is a question of whether this works according to purpose. In relation to Yugoslavia, there is no such clear justification for most of the sanctions. They are adopted on the basis of the EU’s common strategies, and then implemented by the Commission, but there is no clear criterion for the implementation of the sanctions. The big, weak point of the sanctions against Yugoslavia is that it is not clear what the purpose is. That's the one side of it. The second is that one here also needs to see what effect the sanctions have, without consideration – had I almost said – for the purpose. The effect of the sanctions on Yugoslavia is that Milosevic is partying to the grip, that the material situation is getting worse, that it seems more difficult to achieve a democratic transition, and that Milosevic can exploit the isolation to further provoke unrest within what is left of the Federation. Therefore, it is important to ask questions about this. I have not said anything that goes beyond what is in the setting, but I have said it a little bit more in clear text. I stress that Norway should not resort to unilateral measures, but that this is the view that should be made known. This is not an unknown view in Europe. Many governments, without regard to political colour, express this in different contexts, but there is not a common attitude among EU and NATO governments. Therefore, the policy has not been changed, but it does not mean that one should not discuss critically, but on the other hand one should not undermine the sanctions by starting with unilateral measures. The debate is the way to change policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1450	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1453	As a result of the acts of war in the former Yugoslavia, more than 200,000 people have died or disappeared in Bosnia-Herzegovina alone, while more than one million have fled abroad and half a million have been displaced in their own country. The material destruction is enormous. In the summer of 1998, Serbian security forces launched an offensive to re-establish Serbian control over the central areas of Kosovo over which the UCK had been given control. The Serbian forces used disproportionate power against the Kosovar civilian population, and between 250,000 and 300,000 Kosovar Albanians fled their homes, while a large number of homes were destroyed. In September 1989, the UN Security Council in vain adopted a resolution calling for the immediate cessation of the acts of war and for the displaced to return to their homes. After NATO launched a bombing against Yugoslavia on 24 March, Yugoslavia reinforced its organized displacement of the Albanian-scrupulous population. More than 800 000 Kosovar Albanians fled from their homes to neighbouring countries, while between 200 000 and 300 000 were fleeing in Kosovo itself. The material destruction was great because the Serbs systematically burned the home of the Kosovar Albanians. The great economic and human losses in the region could have been largely avoided if NATO had, at a much earlier stage, halted the acts of violence by the Serbs with military power. As regards both Bosnia and Kosovo, the Progress Party has repeatedly requested the Norwegian Government to exercise its influence in NATO with a view to accelerating a military action. These requests were met in Stortinget with political, tactical and international objections that it is interesting to look back on today. Norway was certainly not a driver of military intervention in Bosnia and Kosovo, which could have reduced the damage we are now in the process of repairing. The Progress Party broadly agrees with the present Communication. However, we will reserve ourselves against a development in which Norway becomes a major contributor, while the European Union essentially allows it to be done with beautiful words. Until a short time ago, the EU Member States' efforts towards the so-called Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe were minimal. Economically, it is not least the EU countries that have an interest in the reconstruction of this area. The Progress Party has noted that the Communication regrets that the EU has decided that EU assistance to infrastructure-related projects in Kosovo should be reserved for EU enterprises. The EU will also coordinate assistance to the region. The Progress Party hopes that Norway will not end up as a major contributor to an EU-led construction in Bosnia and Kosovo. The notification indicates that non-governmental organisations are important partners in channelling Norwegian money. There are certain counter-conceptions missing here. I've been talking to people I know is well oriented. They can tell that over 400 private aid organisations are now represented in Kosovo and that many of them are looking around to find something sensible to do. They burden communication and take up hotel places, and the work they do is often uncoordinated. Of course, it does not prevent such organisations from reporting for themselves that they are doing useful work. It is a condition that they will still get money for their business. Systematic verification of the performance of such organisations is unlikely to take place. I do not want to have said that no volunteer help organisations benefit themselves, but there is every reason to look at their business critically, which the message does not add up. The notification states that in the case of democratic and human rights measures, Norwegian organisations and environments have a specific competence. Is that right? In contrast to the other members of the Committee, the Progress Party considers that Norway should not go in to facilitate sanctions against Yugoslavia as long as the current regime is in power. And in particular, we believe that there is no reason to facilitate these sanctions as long as this regime puts difficulties in the way of Kosovo Albanians returning to Kosovo. In our opinion, such a relief of the sanctions would be a wrong signal, and could be collected as a victory for Milosevic. I point out that the Yugoslav police recently broke an independent TV station in the country, and that none of the reasons behind the sanctions have expired. It was said here that corruption is increasing because of these sanctions. I don't think you can find any evidence for that. There are very many countries that are not isolated, where corruption is increasing, for example. in Russia, where that has been what we call glasnost, and quite much freedom of the press and communication with the West. I have to say that these sanctions obviously help to weaken Serbia economically, and that is all the reason, because Serbia is a superior military power in the Balkans and contributes to a lack of balance of power in the region. The bombing has helped a lot, and the isolation of course also helps to weaken a very imperialist dictatorship that rules there, and that has shown its purposes in the most obvious way in recent years. So for that reason, and as long as such an aggressive regime, which prevails over such a great military power, has not in any way changed its character, I don't think there's any reason to stop the weakening of this regime that a boycott and penalty implies. I have noted with interest that the majority of the Committee must also make a special remark this time that particular attention needs to be paid to work that can improve the situation of women. This sounds almost like some kind of ritual or reference. A committee setting is not complete until it has received some sort of priority for women. I assume that the Women's Party has been out with the red pencil. When you look at the enormous suffering that has been inflicted on the people living in the areas, I think it would be a better guide to try to help those who suffer the most, whether it be children, sick, old, women or men.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1482	I first have a very specific question to the representative of Gundersen, and it is linked to the sanctions against the former Yugoslavia: what purpose does the representative of Gundersen believe that the sanctions should and have, what requirements are attached to the sanctions, and what are the consequences of the sanctions today? Then I have to deal with what may be the more curious feature both in the position and in so far also in the posts of the representative, namely that the Progress Party will not focus on work that can improve the situation of women. We are discussing support for long-term development and stabilisation in the Balkans, and what is the situation? Yes, over a decade – this was well described by the representative himself – we have had brutal warfare and ethnic cleansing. There are villages where there are practically no men, and where there are widows left. Does the representative Gundersen not see that, in order to achieve a stable socio-economic development in parts of these areas, it is necessary to invest in the schooling of women, to invest in women's work and to invest in women who can actually set up their own businesses and who can enter into political activities? Does the representative, Mr Gundersen, think that there is no point in ensuring, through the appropriations, that this money and the means we put in actually reaches the target audiences that can contribute to stabilisation and socio-economic development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1490	My point is that according to the description in the message, and that's what everyone knows, there's a lot to do down there, there's a lot of problems, so I actually don't think there was any reason just in this context to draw out the women's problem. But I mean, of course, a place where there are only women and no men, you have to help women, because there is no one else to help. With regard to the sanctions, I have explained what I think must be the consequence. The consequence I personally want is to weaken this regime as long as it is subject to a dictatorship. When the Milosevic regime disappears, it's a matter of course that the sanctions have to lapse. I have the impression that someone thinks that because of the sanctions, Milosevic's regime will lapse. I've never actually believed that. I believe that as long as that regime exists, we must try to weaken this imbalance of power in the Balkans, as far as possible, so that Western countries do not infinitely have to make sure that this regime does not exceed the borders of other countries and creates such suffering as it has done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1497	The representative, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, has a critical comment on the efforts of non-governmental organisations. At the same time, I think that the representative of Gundersen in his post now sacrileged himself against any criticism of this, because he said on the one hand that these organisations are ‘circling around’ in the area almost without purpose and meaning, but at the same time he took care to stress that it was not thus said that everyone was swirling around in this way. He was also sure that there was not going to be any evaluation of the efforts of the voluntary organisations. When, in this way, he sanctifies himself against an evaluation that might possibly come, and yet he chooses to be as strong in the use of words as he actually is, both in his post and in the setting, I would like to ask the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen whether it would not, after all, be more tiring to name the organisations he believes to have information about, which is moving around in this area without purpose and meaning, rather than sanctifying himself in the way he has now done in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1502	The reason for my comment in this area is that I have spoken to representatives of an international organisation that I know very well, who have been on an inspection in Kosovo and who have told me that there are too many international organisations represented there. They didn't name anyone, but the organizations are looking for something to do. Many of them don't do anything constructive, and it's very poorly coordinated. There's just too many people holding on down there. That's essentially what I wanted to say. I think there is every reason to make the hall aware that this is a problem. I am not able to point out any specific organisations, and I also tried to make clear that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1509	I note that the representative, after all, Gundersen has some nuanced views relating to the sanctions against Yugoslavia. We should be able to agree that sanctions against a regime or against a country need to be assessed on a case-by-case basis and on the basis of the situation in question. I therefore once again have some very specific questions to the representative on the sanctions against Yugoslavia: what decisions does the representative consider to be linked to the sanctions we now have against Yugoslavia? What requirements are attached to these sanctions? What are the aims of the representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1516	These were strange questions. I have to assume that this must be a question of what I believe these sanctions should be good for, and that it is not an attempt to examine me about what purposes others have with these sanctions. I reserve here the right to limit myself to commenting on the impact of these sanctions, and what purpose I think they should have. The purely legal background for these sanctions when they were started is something else and not subject to opinions at all, I have to assume. I fully agree with Mrs Nybakk that financial penalties must be assessed in concrete terms. The point of view of the Progress Party has always been that financial penalties are not related to democratic countries which have a private business life, because penalties will then affect private enterprises both in the country which is subject to the sanctions and in other countries which have trade relations. However, with regard to dictatorships such as Burma, Iraq and Yugoslavia, we must, of course, make a concrete assessment. And I have very little faith in what Blankenborg here said, that these sanctions help to keep Milosevic in power. In fact, I think that if it doesn't help to remove him, it will weaken the power that he has over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1525	The question of penalties is, of course, becoming a major issue because it is about whether there may be an adjustment, a change in policy. But what becomes a little bit of the problem with the representative, Gundersen, is that I think he gave both nuanced and interesting reasons for maintaining the sanctions, views that it is absolutely easy to share, without saying that one agrees with the balance and the final conclusion. However, in relation to the premises given in the submission and in so far as the replies to the replies to the replies to the replies, the reason for the proposal put forward by the Progress Party may be a little strange, namely ‘as long as the country puts obstacles in the way that Kosovar Albanians living in Norway can be returned to Kosovo’. In a way, there is a disproportionate relationship between the justification and the elements of the justification that were otherwise provided. There is no reason to extend the debate on the position of women and to be particularly concerned about their situation. Now I would like to stress that there are actually more than the Women's Movement of the Workers' Party that is behind the remark, that they are not alone in being concerned with that question. Of course, it's a point to help those who have the biggest problems. And if it's women, you help them, of course, because they have the biggest problems. But I still think we should recognize that we can often lose sight of women and another group that we should perhaps be more concerned about, namely children, who also have a very clear connection with the situation of women.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1532	I am pleased that the women have now been followed by children, and I'm just waiting for them to be followed by sick and old. Then, after all, there will be quite a lot to take into account our – after all – modest means. Otherwise I have to say that I think it was a waking observation by Hove that this proposal points to a different reason for the sanctions than the one I have given here. The reason was quite simply a look in the paper, which was really quite serious, that the Yugoslav authorities – at least it was announced in the evening post – had put obstacles in the way of passport issuance, so that a number of criminal Kosovar Albanians could not be sent out of the country. It was, of course, very intrusive, and I do not think that Norway should go in favour of lifting the sanctions as long as that question was not resolved. But in a more nuanced debate, which the replicator has given me the opportunity to go into, you can, of course, find other and possibly better reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1539	Since the proposal has now been put on the track, maybe...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1542	Yes, I guess it is not understood that I still stand by it, so I promote our proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1547	Fridtjof Frank Gundersen has made the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1552	The crises, conflicts and warfare in and between the countries of south-east Europe have recently filled both the media picture and the political agenda at national and international level. The result of devastating wars and ethnic conflicts is a shattered economy, severe human suffering, irreconcilable attitudes between population groups within the same country, and also between neighbouring countries, and a lack of security for life and property. Many families still do not have satisfactory housing conditions, and food supply and other help are still inadequate in many areas. Norway has participated with extensive assistance both for the security forces, for food aid, for housing and for ensuring peace, stability and general peace and order in the region. There has been no simple task in any way, nor has the goal been achieved in any way. The challenges in south-east Europe are wide-ranging. The possibilities for establishing peace and political stability are closely linked to the opportunities for good economic development and better regional cooperation as well as political and economic relations with the other countries of Europe. The fighting in Kosovo has ended, but is still under threat of political and civil order. The damage is widespread, and it will take a long time to rebuild infrastructure and meet the basic needs of each family for social security, housing, food and other assistance. The rapporteur has well summarised the situation as it is today. It also underlined the importance of having a broad consensus on the Balkans policy in line with its recommendations. Laconically, the Committee must acknowledge together that the situation has changed little since the end of the war. International efforts to rehabilitate the area have also been very short, both politically and economically. For this reason, it is natural that the Government should be given wide powers to organise the extensive assistance needed in these countries, in the most appropriate way. The notification is based on a distribution of a contribution of nearly 800 million. At the same time, principles are laid down for the allocation of assistance beyond 2000. Therefore, if the political and actual situation in the area should change significantly, the Government should have the necessary powers from the Storting to facilitate the work and distribute the funds in the most appropriate way. The need, as I said, is extensive. The countries covered by this aid are significant Western Balkans, i.e. Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Yugoslavia and Albania. There is a broad political consensus on such a narrowing of efforts. Romania and Bulgaria are also affected by the conflicts and warfare, mainly due to a lack of trade and other practical obstacles resulting from the war. Nevertheless, the need for assistance will be more limited for these countries, and they are excluded from the direct aid to the countries of south-east Europe that we are dealing with here. These countries are also not approved for ODA support. However, the Christian People's Party supports the view that it must at all times be the current need to determine which countries are covered by the Norwegian aid, rather than the formal eligibility criteria. The notification also discusses the general rule for Norwegian aid, namely that it should be unbound. This shall also apply to large parts of the Balkan assistance, as expressed by the previous government. However, the central government comments on the fact that the EU has decided that their assistance to infrastructure-related projects should be largely reserved for enterprises within the Union. Such a commitment runs counter to the policy that the central government wanted to pursue on such issues. The central government therefore announced that it would work for all contributors to disband their assistance to the region. However, in the current situation, the central government found it appropriate to follow EU policies in this area and allow the commitment of assistance – at least in Kosovo – in the same way as the EU had implemented it. In this setting, the Christian People’s Party has supported a unanimous committee which states that when, as a dominant contributor, the EU wanted to bind its aid in this way as described in the Storing Communication, it would put Norwegian companies in a very unfavourable competitive situation if Norway were to pursue a different policy in this area. Now we have also agreed that this should apply to all countries covered by this assistance in the region. Another important issue discussed in the Committee’s position is the impact of the longer-term sanctions. The majority, to which the Christian People's Party belongs, ask the Government to work actively to change the sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. At the same time, however, the majority emphasises, as did the rapporteur, that this does not mean that Norway will break with our partners and allies on this issue. One-sided Norwegian measures will not be appropriate, but the majority at the same time express the view that Norway should influence both EU and NATO countries to change policies in order to reduce sanctions against the country. However, some measures, such as: The sanctions against the accused of crimes against humanity and the arms boycott against the country should still be maintained. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Vollebæk, explained that there were different views within the EU countries on the appropriateness of some of the sanctions, in particular regarding the ban on aircraft – which has now been lifted – and the oil embargo. In practice, there is a question of achieving a fair balance between maintaining the economic and political pressure against the Milosevic regime, while taking into account the strong pressures imposed on the Serbian population by the sanctions. Although Norway, in cooperation with the other countries, is implementing humanitarian projects in Serbia to remedy the difficult situation, particularly among refugees, it is evident that the severe sanctions have a negative impact on the daily lives of the Serbian population and on the refugees. In our view, if a Norwegian initiative could lead to a critical review of the sanctions and assess which are still appropriate to maintain, and which are not working — and which should therefore be discontinued — this would be positive. I am also pleased that a joint committee underlines the valuable work done through various non-governmental organisations and through the important political contacts carried out under the auspices of political parties and other organisations. Economic stability, satisfactory welfare development and social protection belong closely to the development of democratic structures and respect for democratic rules of play. In this context, cultural exchange programmes, contacts with different organisations and contacts with political parties in other countries can have a clear positive impact. Such work should therefore be encouraged and included in the overall strategy and efforts of the Government for the Western Balkans. The experience is that many of the humanitarian and cultural organisations involved in the construction work in the region carry out their work both cost-effectively and with a commitment that is often more long-term and reaches the population better than many of the public assistance measures being launched. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the entire Committee supports the view that the work of voluntary organisations should be undertaken as an important long-term and coordinated approach in line with both national and international priorities. Total economic aid to Western Balkan countries amounts to something over DKK 1 billion. This is, of course, a limited amount in relation to the considerable need for the construction of countries after the war. However, in relation to amounts otherwise allocated to our main cooperation countries in development aid, this aid is, however, highly relevant to the list of priority countries. In addition, the contributions made by Norway through the peace operations in the region under way. The suffering for the population of these countries has been enormous. It is hoped that the comprehensive assistance programme established will contribute to political stability, economic progress and a more hopeful future for the population of these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1579	This debate is probably already beginning to bear the unmistakable mark of a debate in which there is a steady consensus. I will therefore not take advantage of the occasion for a full review of the case, but make a few comments on it. The one thing I think there's every reason to get stuck with is the concern that's at the bottom of the setting. I think it was Haakon Blankenborg who said that the framework for what Europe should do in the Balkans is good, but it does not work. It's a very fundamental and serious question, because there's no doubt that we're now facing a very long and very complicated reconstruction task here. And if that's how the system doesn't work as well as we want it to, then the question is what do we do with it. I am not in any doubt for a moment that the reconstruction work we are facing here is of the utmost importance in the sense that if we fail to reconcile in old conflicts and to bring these societies forward, this will be a source of constant unrest in Europe for a long, long time in the future. But what I think we should focus on is that here we are not only facing a question of reconstruction after conflicts, but also, to the greatest extent, a question of creating something new. These are societies that, even before the conflicts, have taken place in dramatic violence – as we have seen in recent years – were among Europe’s more backward areas, where there was a significant need for political and economic reform. So they must now, at the same time as they are to be rebuilt, carry out such reforms and take a good step forward to just be able to compete in a globalised economy and in a world where borders no longer mean the same. It is therefore not just a question of rebuilding something that has been destroyed, something fundamentally new has to be created, and it makes this task very difficult. There's reason to expect that we're going to get involved in the Balkans for a very long time, and the question then becomes whether the Western world simply has enough endurance in such a situation. The Foreign Affairs Committee was visiting Bosnia a few years ago. Already then, we heard the expression 'donneur fatigue' or that the donors started to get tired, and we have to make sure that the donors to the Balkans don't get tired – we have to be ready to endure quite a long time. It is therefore right that Norway has now chosen its involvement in a larger European context. I think it is important both for efficiency and for Norway's somewhat marginalised position that we just want to contribute within this framework. But what we need to remember is part of the experience we've had in other parts of the world, that if we're to make it work, it has to be properly anchored in local activities, in a local commitment, and that you're locally willing to succeed. If something is pushed on from the outside, it may be in a transitional period in an attempt to build up the institutions, but in the long term it is rarely successful. And once again, it's the difficulty level that strikes you so clearly when this reasoning is implemented. I think it's good that the Foreign Affairs Committee as clearly as it does, says that when we're going to spend money, it's important that we take into account the current need and not ask if the countries are formally entitled to development aid. I noticed with pleasure that also Steensnæs joined this way of formulating it, and until that I can just say: it was the jam well. It hasn't always been like this. Then there has been a debate on sanctions, and I can well understand that. The question of penalties has always been difficult to deal with, not least because, as Haakon Blankenburg pointed out, it has not always been so clear what one wants to achieve with sanctions, and therefore knows at what time they will be liquidated or amended. Actually, we have had an uncertain relationship with sanctions as an instrument ever since the South Africa debate, that is. The problem there was that it was not uncertain, then it had moral self-esteem. But after that, we haven't had a really thorough assessment of how appropriate sanctions are. It is absolutely right that sanctions give important political signals, and I fully agree with Mr Gundersen. I also agree that, at least until peace has been restored, it has a self-esteem in terms of also weakening a military power. But on the other hand, in today's situation it breaks down the societies further, it prevents democratic forces and it can in many ways increase the problems, and then it becomes difficult to know how to move on. I therefore believe that the rather cautious suggestion from the Foreign Affairs Committee is that we must continue to work on this and try in a wider European context to see opportunities to relax and change this is the right way to go. I think that in that process you have to make sure to target the sanctions against the regime, and see what doesn't work, and what might go beyond most people, and not least the democratic opposition. The problem with sanctions is just that you get most people to join a regime, because it is often that blood is thicker than water, and that a country under pressure tends to end up with its regime. It's hardly appropriate. But I think it's very important not to break out of the Western community – I think it's important that the outside world has a clear policy towards at least Milosevic. I'm not saying that there's in any way a clear picture we're facing here, but I think that's all the reason for once again taking a debate about what you're really looking for. Because when you see how we spread sanctions around different regimes, it's not immediately the consequence of how we deal with it, which strikes you. I think I'll take care of that. But I just want to end by saying that I fully share Haakon Blankenborg's assessment that the development in Croatia is very interesting, positive and promising, and so let's make the small contribution we can to attract Croatia into the larger Western community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1600	When the EU Ministerial Meeting in June 1999 adopted the so-called Stability Pact for South-East Europe, it created expectations of a new gift for the war-torn countries of the Balkans. The pact was very comprehensive and set the following ambitious objectives: develop democratic process strengths to protect the political and economic cooperation of minorities promoting multi-ethnic societies, the basis for a healthy market economy Ten months have passed since the Cologne Ministerial Meeting, and nearly five months have passed since the announcement of the forthcoming Norwegian aid to the countries of south-east Europe. If the Stability Pact is to be taken into account today, the conclusion unfortunately has to be that progress in the process has so far been unsatisfactory. It has taken time to transform the commitment and enthusiasm expressed last summer by the promoters of the Stability Pact into practical action. The impression of the rest of the world is that little has happened in relation to the ambitious programmes adopted by the EU in June 1999. Of course, it is true, as former Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk writes in a letter to the Workers' Group, that it is primarily the countries in the region itself that must take the initiative and drive the process forward. The meetings held in autumn 1999 showed the need to follow-up central countries and organisations in order to transform the Stability Pact strategy into practical cooperation measures. Now it seems, however, that the work has got into a better track. It is positive that connected and associated States to the Stability Pact at a conference in Brussels last week have taken the initiative to get the process out of the deadlock. The reports of the Brussels meeting can tell that there has now been an agreement to mobilise a total of EUR 2.4 billion for the South-East Europe programme under the Stability Pact. The framework for international efforts, including the Norwegian, must be the Stability Pact. The Committee has adhered to the assessments of the central government both in terms of developments in the Western Balkans, the geographical demarcation to which the notification relates and the use of Norwegian resources in the region. The political consensus on the Balkans policy developed during the war in Kosovo is now continuing. Both Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Albania are severely affected by the war in the region. For this reason, efforts must be concentrated initially on the Western Balkans. The central party belongs to the majority that the Government is asked to work actively to change the sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The humanitarian and political consequences of the sanctions indicate a certain conversion. When experience shows that innocent people become victims, it must be appropriate to reconsider the forms of penalties. It must be possible to do so without facilitating international pressure against the Republic. And as the committee says: ‘As long as President Milosevic and the others accused of war crimes and ‘crime against man’ are in power, it is difficult to imagine normal political and economic developments in the region’. Nor should there be any doubt that the weapons boycott must continue. However, an adjustment to the penalties should be made in agreement with the other countries working within the framework of the Stability Pact. In other words, unilateral adjustments from the Norwegian side are not applicable. One of the objectives of the Stability Pact is to provide the basis for a healthy market economy in the area. It is therefore important to stimulate increased trade between countries in the area. When former Yugoslavia went into disintegration, the break-up republics introduced customs barriers to each other. In order to create normal economic activities between these countries, it is also necessary to work towards the dismantling of these customs barriers. This will not only contribute to economic development in the area, but also in the longer term to reduce the risk of new conflicts. Under the Stability Pact, the beneficiary countries in question need to be helped to develop both social institutions and legal systems. Effective social institutions that can enforce laws are a prerequisite for attracting investment, which in turn is a prerequisite for wealth development. Among other things, the guarantee schemes to reduce the risk of foreign investment will be important for the repatriation work. The countries of south-east Europe need all the support they can receive during the demanding recovery period ahead. But at the same time, the world community must realize that countries must not have the feeling of being completely put under administration. It is important that countries can gradually build up both self-respect and self-confidence. It requires a sufficient degree of self-determination to be provided, both in terms of programming and implementation of the programmes. The Government regrets that the EU has decided that its assistance to infrastructure should be mainly tied, in other words, reserved for enterprises within the Union. Although Norway in principle believes that the assistance should be unbundled, this time it has to be related to the fact that the main contributors have chosen to commit their support. The Committee supports the Communication's assumption that Norwegian aid will also be linked – against this background.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1656	The time for the morning meeting is up, and a new meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-04.ana.ud573e1661	The President has called on the representatives because she wants to propose the following: On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that, after the final part-session, there is a meeting at Odelstinget. No objections have been raised — and it is deemed to have been adopted.
