ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e36	The representative of Øyvind Waksdal will present a private legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e39	I want to make proposals on behalf of Carl I. Hagen and myself to change the pollution law so that it does not apply to the greenhouse gas CO2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e44	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e56	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes, and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It'll be taken as a receipt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e65	Today, we have a very important and relatively comprehensive legislative proposal of great importance to the privacy of individual citizens. The development of IT requires data protection legislation capable of meeting the future. The proposal is based on the EU Data Protection Directive and the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency, while maintaining, updating and further developing the current Personal Data Protection Act. In view of the international nature of the information society, corresponding international rules are necessary. The starting point of the Directive on the free movement of personal data within the EU Member States and the suggestion that third countries should have a sufficiently high level of protection of privacy before such data is transmitted is a proper starting point for the legislation on the transfer of personal data to third countries. By decision of the EEA Joint Committee earlier today, the EEA Joint Committee has approved the inclusion of the Directive as part of the EEA Agreement. Electronic commerce is developing rapidly, and consequently privacy is also becoming the focus in this context. The Labour Party believes that we should not create stricter rules than those of the EU countries in this field and that this should be taken into account in the preparation of privacy regulations in relation to electronic commerce. If the Government believes otherwise, the Storting must be resubmitted. With regard to the right to reserve in relation to the storage of electronic tracks, I understand the government's need for further investigation, and that one comes back to this issue in the work in progress to facilitate electronic commerce. For privacy, this issue is very central, and it is therefore important that, once the investigation has been completed, the Storting should be re-examined. In relation to the published back-testing of the Data Protection Act, it will be necessary to focus in particular on the international communication channels and the specific challenges they present to us in the future. According to the Swedish Data Protection Authority, there are currently approx. 1 million registers in this country, and since 1980 supervision has granted 67 000 – 68 000 concessions. This illustrates the extent and not least the probability that each of us is registered in several places. Although there are a number of ‘current’ registers, it is obvious that a number of requirements need to be set in order to safeguard the privacy of individuals. The legislative proposal focuses on the rights of individuals, not least on the responsibility of the controller for individual registers. The bill strengthens the rights of the data subject. The data concerned shall be granted an extended right of access to the data, in particular in relation to private controllers. Perhaps the most important requirement in the law is that the controller be given an obligation to notify the data subject that is now a record of the data relating to the data subject on an ongoing basis. This requirement for the controller is, in my view, a real strengthening of privacy. Another important element of the new law is the individual’s right to reserve his/her reservation for telephone sales through the new central reservation register. Both companies, teams and associations operating this type of sale are obliged to check their lists against the reservation register before the first shipment, and otherwise four times a year. Today's data protection law is largely based on the granting of pre-concessions. The concession obligation is now being built up, while a system of notification is being set up whereby the individual controller is required to notify the Data Protection Authority that a register has now been established. We believe this conversion in the Workers' Party is quite correct. Now, the Data Protection Authority has much better opportunity to do awareness-raising work, and as we get a law with more material content, it also becomes much more meaningful to spend time on subsequent controls than on pre-concession treatments, on which supervision today spends a very large part of its time. Furthermore, there will be a concession obligation for registers dealing with sensitive personal data. Some foreign language according to Norwegian circumstances is that trade union membership is included in the list of types of personal data that are considered sensitive. Here, however, we are bound by Article 8 paragraph of the EU Directive. 1st@item: inlistbox However, the conditions we set out in Section 9 of the bill for the processing of sensitive information do make this possible. The same applies to the concept of ‘ethnic background’, which has been proposed by the University Team Committee to remove from the list of sensitive personal data. I agree that ethnicity is in many ways less sensitive in Norway than in many other countries, but once again the EU Directive is in force, and the conditions set out in Section 9 should also in these cases enable practical solutions that research can serve. The wish of the same university team that one in Section 9 sets a limit on how long data should be considered sensitive is more natural to consider under archive law. It is important that we now get a law that basically applies to all kinds of processing of personal data, and that both public and private controllers are included. However, certain derogations from the law are necessary. Where grounds of emergency and the security of the State so require, as well as for the processing of personal data by the police, there must be exceptions. Nor may the rules of the Personal Information Act apply to the registers of the surveillance service. As regards the criminal record law, there is a need for a general review. Pending this revision, it seems right that the Data Protection Act should initially apply to police records, with the clear premise that it is possible by regulation to make the necessary exceptions to the law. In my view, the Schengen Information System Act, known as the SIS Act, has taken into account the need for data protection in relation to the need for registration and personal data in the context of international police cooperation. I think it is obvious that the law also applies to the handling of personal data by political bodies. Of course, we must be able to impose the same requirements on data controllers for political party personal files as on other controllers. Contrary to that, it would be pointless for the individual to have less rights to a register existing in a political party than otherwise. Nor is there any reason to exempt the Storting from the law; the Presidency sees no need for it. The National Audit Office points out in a letter to the Committee its need for derogations from parts of the law because of its audit and control activities. A unanimous committee goes in to meet the wishes of the National Audit Office. The registers and the material under the control of the Riksrevision have a different primary responsibility, which, of course, is governed by law. It is therefore both correct and appropriate to exempt the Riksaudition from the rules on correction, transparency and notification and concession obligations when the Riksaudition processes information obtained from another body as part of its control activities. On the other hand, it is clear that any own records which the Riksrevision may have must be covered by the law. There is broad agreement within the Committee on certain restrictions on the application of the law to personal data which take place only for journalistic, artistic and literary purposes. This is in the interests of freedom of expression and information, and is in line with Article 9 of the EU Directive. However, it is very important that both the supervisory authorities and the Ministry of Justice closely monitor whether the limitations that are now being made in the scope of the law really take due account of data protection and that the ministry should bring the issue back to the Stortinget if necessary. I would also like to stress that the Data Protection Act should not restrict the right of access under the Public Service Act, the Administrative Act or any other statutory right of access. The new law confers sanctions on the Data Protection Authority. The Workers' Party supports the right to impose periodic penalty payments if they are not complied with. Similarly, we support the proposed three-year upper penalty framework for serious infringements of the law. It is necessary that the Data Protection Authority should now give priority to the establishment of the central inventory, which shall contain information on both the concession and mandatory personal data processing. The conversion from a concession-based system to a more reporting obligation system and the resources now provided to the Data Protection Authority must make it possible to do so. During the committee's proceedings, we have, among other things: focused on television surveillance, and there is broad agreement on the introduction of reporting obligations for that activity for monitoring both with and without image capture. It is extremely important that the Data Protection Authority now has the opportunity to intervene against monitoring that is contrary to the rules of treatment given. We have been particularly concerned about the use of television surveillance as an effective measure to combat crime, one of which is, of course, based on having the right balance in relation to privacy. I am pleased with the adjustments and the new proposals that an overall committee is promoting in this context. In my opinion, the decisions we are making today strengthen the role of the Data Protection Authority as supervisory authority. In other words, we better facilitate the possibility of supervision to ensure the best possible level of protection for each individual's privacy needs in relation to all existing personal files, and not least in relation to those who will arrive. In particular, it will be important to ensure that we have a supervisory authority capable of addressing future challenges, in particular in the light of the challenges posed by technological development. This development also creates a particular need for back-testing, and therefore it is very important that we already order this control, so that it is possible to make the legislative adjustments/modifications that may prove necessary within a reasonable time. Article 28(1) of the EU Directive 1 requires the supervisory authority to be able to exercise its functions in full independence, that is to say, professionally independent of the government/departement. In the first instance, the Data Protection Authority shall exercise that power. The Workers' Party supports that the Director of the Data Protection Supervisor should continue to be an official and that the Director can be appointed in future for years. We also agree with the creation of the new complaint subject, the so-called Privacy Policy. In addition to being able to deal with complaints about the decisions of the Data Protection Authority, it is important, in the view of the Workers' Party, that the Data Protection Board itself be able to re-examine cases on its own initiative and also to try all aspects of a case. Administratively speaking, it must be under the Ministry of Justice. Only at one point does the Workers' Party depart from the two-tier appeal proceedings to which it is now added, namely with regard to the correction/ erasure of records or material of historical value. In such cases, an appeal shall be possible, if necessary, before the Ministry of Justice. In the light of the great historical and national interest, a decision in this type of case may be taken, we believe that this possibility is an additional security that is important to have. Several consultation opinions also support this view. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to a mistake in the setting on page 14, where it says that ‘the Committee also proposes specific complaint rules in relation to issues relating to the correction or deletion of information of historical value’. As otherwise indicated in the vote, it shall be the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, and not the Committee. Whether the Data Protection Authority should have a board of directors or not is a difficult question. The Labour Party had a clear view of the previous conflict between the Governing Board and the Director of the Data Protection Authority, but it was based on the current structure. In the debate during the 1996 Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority, we made it clear from the Workers' Party that we would enter into the discussion on the future governance model of the Data Protection Agency with an open mind and on a free basis. The need for a professionally competent board of directors, including: because supervision is no longer subject to direct political governance, it is an argument for maintaining the board of directors. Similarly, the need for a body to design overall strategies and policies and to decide on matters of a principle nature may address the maintenance of a Data Protection Board. However, when the Workers' Party concludes that it is no longer necessary to have a Governing Board, it is based on the following argument: The new Privacy Policy will take over the Board's review process. The Committee shall be able to change matters on its own initiative and try all aspects of a case. The Minister of Justice is responsible for any regulations, even if the competence to provide regulations in some areas can be given to the Data Protection Authority. We now have a law with much more substantive rules. In such a small organisation as the Data Protection Authority, it could seem very bureaucratic to continue to maintain a board of directors. Both having a professionally competent board and having a professionally competent complaint subject will involve an unnecessary trial of all complaints. Finally, it is also important that the Data Protection Authority should be under the Ministry of Justice. Finally, I feel convinced that the new law we are adopting today provides a good basis for what we want to achieve, namely to strengthen the privacy of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e165	The case handler has made a mistake on page 14 of the setting. The President will take note that the regulatory time is immediately over. The President will propose that the meeting continue until today’s map is completed – and will consider it agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e170	Most of the comments in the setting are at the heart of all the parties in the committee. The consensus is therefore that the Government has put forward a very good proposal for personal information law. However, the Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party and the Right, has a minority comment on Section 42, fourth paragraph. It concerns the deletion of records and material of historical value. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, consider that the Privacy Policy should not be the last Board of Appeal but that the final decision should be added to the Government. The value of historical material has a great deal of understanding for the Christian People's Party. It is important that such material be preserved for the future. In order to ensure the independence of the supervisory authority, the Christian People’s Party considers it important that all decisions in complaints concerning decisions of the Data Protection Authority be decided in the Data Protection Topic. The Christian People's Party believes that the important consideration for the preservation of historical material must be reflected in the composition of the Subject of Privacy. In particular, it is appropriate to appoint a person from the historically competent environment who may pay particular attention to the need to preserve and archive material of historical interest. There is a cross-political consensus in the Committee that the subject of privacy should be composed of persons competent in different areas of society, in order to enable them to make a broad balance between different societal interests. The personal data subject shall inform annually about his/her activities. Thus, there will be plenty of access to look at important considerations, including: sufficient care is given to historical material. So the Christian People's Party will vote against the proposal for a new second sentence in the fourth paragraph of Section 42. In connection with the processing of personal data law, we also adopt important changes for the Data Protection Authority. The Christian People's Party believes that the reorganisations it has set up are necessary both in relation to the tools that the Data Protection Authority receives from this bill and in relation to the increased focus on subsequent control measures. However, I believe that the rapporteur, Mr Rasmussen, has made an excellent presentation of the joint views of the Committee, to which the Christian People's Party also subscribes. I therefore do not consider that any further time should be taken to repeat what the Committee agrees on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e191	Privacy is a fundamental, liberal right. Every citizen has the right to protect his or her privacy from improper registration and surveillance. The development of the information society creates new, major data protection challenges due to the increased ability to collect, use and store personal data. More and more information is being stored about each of us, and we are being monitored in several contexts. Individually, this vast collection of information can seem harmless, but interconnected it provides enough knowledge to map a person's movements in detail. There is therefore a need for a clear regulatory framework that sets clear limits and prevents different registration requests from giving rise to violations of the individual's right to privacy. As mentioned above, privacy is an important, liberal right. It is therefore of great importance for the Left to participate and provide a law that strengthens privacy. It was an important occasion in the last period for the Left at Lars Sponheim to bring privacy more strongly into the political debate than it had been in the eight years when the Left was absent from the Stortinget. Lars Sponheim made a number of suggestions on such questions, and it is with some pleasure that I record that the point made by the law of the case rapporteur was perhaps the most important thing, namely the obligation to inform the person who is registered, that one is registered, something that was passed on to the Left for which the first proposal was adopted in the Stortinge in the previous period. However, during this period the Left has also followed up the question of privacy and an independent supervisory authority, for example. in order to ensure the independence of the Data Protection Authority in the context of the debate on the Annual Communication of the Data Protection Authority in spring 1998. It is therefore a pleasure that today there is a government with the Left, and with a Left State Council as responsible, who is presenting the bill that clearly strengthens privacy in relation to the applicable law. It is also with pleasure that I record that the Committee has followed up the Government's proposals. Privacy has basically been important for a long time, there is nothing about registration issues or about information technology. And there's something about privacy being under pressure when new technology has created new opportunities in different contexts. However, there is every reason to emphasise, as I did initially, that registration and the ability to connect registers are a very important issue in relation to privacy, and that there are issues that become more important and important as information technology and video surveillance for that matter, making it increasingly easier to violate privacy. It is difficult to bring forward all the improvements that the new law represents, and I would like to stress that the case-rapporteur in his statement presented in an excellent way a number of the improvements that the law represents. I'll perhaps allow myself to highlight one point related to the fact that you're now getting a clearer regulation on television surveillance. I will also acknowledge that, at the same time, an exemption provision is being introduced which is intended to clarify criminal offences, which I, for my part, at the same time regard as quite broad and in many ways perhaps too liberal. I would therefore like to stress the Committee's comment on this, as stated on page 20 of the vote: ‘The Committee sees the danger of a surveillance society in which cameras replace people, and would stress that the legal rules now being passed will, in total, intensify the control of television surveillance.’ I feel a clear need to underline the clear clarification that lies in the Committee's position. Otherwise, I will be allowed to highlight the issue of data protection independence, it has been an important issue for the Left for a long time and has been highlighted in a number of contexts. We are therefore very pleased that the law now provides for an independent complaint subject, and that it is therefore not under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice to handle those matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e215	We are reminded daily of the challenges created by the information society in relation to the desire to protect privacy and the privacy of individuals. Economic and technological developments provide for more efficient and socially beneficial management and exchange of information. At the same time, the same developments are constantly giving new opportunities to collect, store and systematise personal data in a way that puts privacy under pressure. As the Adult Declaration shows, the Government attaches great importance to strengthening privacy. That is why I am pleased to note today a broad consensus in the Storting on the main features of the proposal put forward by the Government on a completely new law on the processing of personal data. The legislative proposal follows up important points in the Adult Declaration: one of these is the principle that individuals should have the opportunity to decide as far as possible on the use of information about themselves. The legislative proposal strengthens the information and transparency on which data are processed and what they are used for, and extends the individual’s access to the personal data processed about him or her. In principle, it is also important to inform the data subject of both the collection and the use to which the data is to be used, as a matter of principle, of the new alert rules that impose on the person collecting personal data. Increased information requirements will provide a basis for each individual to make informed choices, such as: to enter into a customer relationship, obtain a bonus card or leave it alone. Here it is up to the individual to take responsibility for their own privacy by weighing the value of this against other considerations that prevail in the choice of the road. Through the legislative proposal, the Government also follows up the Adult Declaration programme to strengthen the independence of the Data Protection Authority. The establishment of a data protection department to deal with complaints about the decisions of the Data Protection Authority is an important innovation in this context, for which I record that there is a general agreement. The individual's desire to protect his or her own private sphere must also be weighed against important social interests in other contexts. The desire to preserve material for research and historical control is such an interest. I have noticed that a majority of the committee proposes a special access to appeal to the King's decisions that the Data Protection Officer makes about deleting personal data. I understand the majority so that the king's authority can be delegated to a department. I agree that it is important to focus on the value of taking care of historical material. I believe that this important consideration can be taken into account through a broad and balanced composition of the Subject of Privacy, but of course takes note of the views of the majority. Television surveillance has been a field in which rules have been called for for several years to increase the ability of the Data Protection Authority to control. I am pleased to note a broad agreement to impose a notification obligation for such monitoring, while allowing the Data Protection Authority to carry out control by order – which may be followed up with a periodic penalty payment if necessary. It is my hope that through this law, we will provide a good framework for the protection of personal data. Within the general framework of the legislative proposal, it will be largely up to the Data Protection Authority and the new Data Protection Authority to provide guidance for the more concrete application of the legislation. With regard to the Data Protection Authority, I would like to stress the aspect that it should not only exercise control but also be a data protection adviser and co-operator. In this context, it is good to know that we have a high level of data protection that has gained solid experience and competence in the wide range of issues that have an impact on privacy over many years. Let me also remind the story that the Data Protection Authority has now actually completed its first 20 years, and that I have challenged the Data Protection Authority to organise a seminar where they can draw up the perspectives that privacy is facing in the time that comes. I would like to tell you about this, because I think we'll have to accept that we keep different mirrors to ourselves when we're going to balance privacy interests against other interests. And the government will during the spring initiate two such mirrors. One is the data protection mirror shown by the Data Protection Authority when they draw this up against the modern cybernetic landscape, and the other is what is shown to us when Ecocrim organizes its seminar for us on IT-related crime. We both need those perspectives in order to get into the balance that I think the Director of the Data Protection Agency, Georg Apenes, has described in a way he has recently published. I'll end by reminding you of an important relationship. A good level of privacy is just a matter of regulation and control. Protection of individual privacy and respect for privacy is, to a large extent, a discussion of moral and ethical attitudes in each of us. In short, taking care of privacy will also be a matter of acting in accordance with general good practices in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e238	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Footing, see page 340]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e252	We now have to deal with the Inst. O. No 53, position of the Financial Committee on amendments to the Tax Act etc. There are a number of things that are outlined in the proposition and in the setting, but I want to take those points in the setting that there has been a lot of discussion about in the committee. This is especially true for changes in the shipping tax system, and the point we've gone into a bit is guarantee and security. As is known, the possibility to guarantee or provide collateral for loans to related companies means that funds earned under the scheme provide the basis for credit/capital access to companies outside the scheme. As in the case of borrowings, it would be difficult for the equality authorities to verify whether the guarantee or the guarantee is made under market conditions, as it is called, and, where appropriate, to take out untaxed funds. Paragraphs 8 to 12 of the Tax Act are amended so that the prohibition of granting loans to taxpayers outside the scheme of direct or indirect interests in the company is now extended to include guarantees and other guarantees. One now proposes that the ban on the provision of guarantees and security should enter into force from 1 January 2000. As far as guarantees and guarantees already established are concerned, the Ministry proposes that they should be wound up by 1 January 2002. This gives the shipping industry sufficient time, it is understood, to adapt to the consequences of the proposed changes. This relationship has been taken into account by the Financial Committee, in particular in the light of a consultation with the Shipowners’ Association, which was published in a letter from the Minister of Finance to the Højres Grönderingsgruppe of 10 February 2000. I would like to draw up a number of considerations that the Minister of Finance came up with. He says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘that the proposal for transitional rules may have far-reaching consequences for some shipping companies and that the problems may be greater for industry than assumed at the time of the proposal’.» The Minister of Finance further writes: ‘In the light of the information now produced, I will endeavour to find alternative transition solutions that are more flexible for the industry.’ This, of course, has been noted by the Committee and the Committee now assumes that the Government will come back to the Storting during the current year with proposals for more flexible transitional arrangements and will consider whether arrangements other than the prohibition of the provision of guarantees and guarantees can be established which safeguard the interests of the tax creditor. The Minister of Finance also writes in the letter: ‘I would therefore like to assess in more detail whether there may be a basis for lifting the current loan prohibition in the tax law § 8-12, while introducing a rule that loans from the company to shareholders etc. as mentioned in Section 8-12 of the Tax Act, is assimilated to the distribution of dividends as a tax-exempt provision for the company. Such conversion should be further investigated and subsequently, where appropriate, sent to consultation.’;» The majority are aware that some companies, for example: may have established loan relationships for a long time prior to the time I have outlined, while very special circumstances may have resulted in the formalisation of an agreed guarantee obligation, etc. have not been implemented before 1 January 2000. In such cases, in the view of the majority, in view of the wide-ranging consequences for the company of the application of the provision, there should be a certain scope for interpreting the provision in such a way that it does not apply. However, it is emphasised that such an interpretation must be reserved for exceptional cases. The typical case would be that it has not been possible to provide ships or the like. in pledges prior to 1 January 2000, due to late delivery from the yard, etc. The second relationship in the suspension observed by the Committee concerns the accrual of gains on assets realised before the entry into this new arrangement. It is fundamentally unfortunate that the entry into the special company tax scheme provides for the possibility of delaying the taxation of profits raised before the company entered the scheme. Then there is a central question which gains should be included in the proposal for specific accrual rules within the scheme. Should these special rules also apply to losses incurred by the company before its entry into the scheme? That's a central point. In the consultation note sent out, the Ministry assumed that the proposal should not include the benefits of ships and mobile devices for use in petroleum activities realised prior to their entry into the scheme. The Committee has been informed by letter of 15 February 2000 from the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association to the Financial Committee that uncertainty has arisen as to whether the proposed legislative text of the fourth paragraph of Section 8-15 is in accordance with the preparatory work of the Proposition. The Shipowner’s Association considers it necessary to clarify that the provision should not in practice be given a higher content than that resulting from the preparatory work. At this point, too, we have asked the Minister of Finance, as in a letter dated 17 February 2000 to the Finance Committee, among others. says: ‘that the proposal for a new fourth paragraph of Paragraphs 8 to 15 of the Tax Act should not include that part of the company’s profit and loss account at the time of entry, which may originate from a previous statement of income at the time of a prior withdrawal from the scheme. However, I have no objection to the Committee’s comments stating that the draft law should be understood in accordance with the Shipowner’s remark in a letter dated 15 February 2000.’» The Committee takes the view that the bill should be understood in accordance with the Shipowner's remark in the letter. I find it necessary to clarify these things, as there have been uncertainties about it. The last point relating to the company tax relates to group contributions between companies within the scheme. It follows from point (a) of the fourth paragraph of Section 8-18 of the Tax Act that companies can provide and receive group contributions from other companies within the scheme provided that the conditions for the right to provide and receive group contributions under Sections 10-4 are fulfilled. As we have understood, the Ministry of Finance has interpreted the provision so that group contributions between companies within the scheme do not have an income-balancing effect. The Committee takes note of this and also refers here to the Minister of Finance's letter of 10 February 2000 to the Højres Storingsgruppe, where it appears that one will also come back to further assessments in the context of the 2001 tax package. And the reasons given by the Minister of Finance include, among other things: att «the amendments adopted after these amendments to the company tax rules may be material grounds for requiring that group contributions should be made between companies with income equalisation.» So I would like to address another important point in this position, namely increased access to the exchange of information between the tax authorities and the Labour Inspectorate. Cooperation between the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate will be more effective if procedures for the exchange of information are established for the benefit of the other department of its control. In particular, there is information on specific control objects that will be silenced under the applicable law. The Labour Inspectorate has found that firms which do not comply with the legislation applicable in the administrative area of the tax authorities often also fail to comply with the rules imposed by the Labour Environment Act. The majority assume that the Labour Inspectorate could benefit greatly from information that there has been a breach of occupational health and safety legislation or tax legislation or, where appropriate, information that there is a suspicion of such a breach. By increasing the exchange of information for control purposes between the two departments, one could achieve a more efficient use of control resources. I want to refer here to Ot. pp. No 21 for 1991-92, page 27, which reads: ‘On the other hand, the obligation of professional secrecy should not provide protection against the examination of important responsibilities. Equation data — once collected by the Equation Authorities — must also be used for some other societally important purposes, not least the detection of economic crime.’ I would like to add that I believe that this is a groundbreaking work, that we can have more stringent control over the individual levels so that tax evasion, black work and so on can be achieved. to life. This is a step in the right direction. The Committee also fully shares the view of the Ministry of Finance that a taxpayer who provides incorrect information to the equality authorities about its income or wealth relationships, or the companies that fail to pay an employer’s tax, should have well-founded expectations of being protected by the rules on professional secrecy vis-à-vis other public authorities concerning the control of neighbouring areas. One must be aware that in cases where the Equation Authorities and the Labour Inspectorate exchange information obtained from a register subject to concession, questions may arise as to whether the concessions authorise such exchange of information. The majority assume that the Equation Authorities and the Labour Inspectorate address any issues related to this directly with the Data Protection Authority. The exchange of information must also be adapted to new data protection legislation once it has been adopted and entered into force. With regard to the access of tax, tax and customs authorities to information on secret telephone numbers, etc., this is also an important point in the majority’s view. The protection of privacy requires a well-founded need for authorities to have access to information, inter alia. on secret phone number, fax number and Pager number. One refers to the fact that the tax haven’s verification experience reveals that in some cases the secret number is used to convey taxable activity. The Tax Directorate also points out that this is taking place to a certain extent. This type of advertising has, until now, been preferentially advertised in newspapers, but there is reason to believe that such advertising is also made through other media, such as: via the Internet. I would also like to mention that Customs has access to several registers for border control. To apply in the registers is dependent on knowing the identity of the person for whom information is requested. Access to information on who is the keeper of the secret telephone number leads, inter alia, to: the customs authorities may obtain an overview of the vehicle, vessel or other means of transport in question. The majority will note that economic crime, and in particular tax evasion, is characterised by the fact that the actions violate important social interests, while individuals rarely experience a loss. This makes it difficult to detect such crimes. It also characterises this type of crime that the issue of doubt is often whether or not a criminal offence has occurred. The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progressive Party and the Right, subscribe to the Government's proposal on the access of tax, tax and customs authorities to information on secret phone numbers, etc., cf. the new Art. 6-13 a, the new Art. 48 a and the new Art. 16 B.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e321	Ot. pp. No 21 for 1991-92 is about several distinct tax relationships, and I'll take the most important of them in the order that comes from the proposition. Within the shipping tax regime, the Government proposes to extend the loan ban to cover the provision of guarantees and guarantees with effect from 1 January 2002. The Progress Party recalls that Paragraphs 8 to 7 of the Share Act include restrictions on the freedom to grant loans to shareholders and related parties. Furthermore, loan transactions do not create specific control problems for the equality authorities, and the Progress Party cannot therefore see the need for a rule prohibiting these types of transactions. Thus, the present rule on the prohibition of granting loans in the tax law § 8-12 is not well-founded and should be lifted. As for loans, guarantees and guarantees are capital transactions at easily observable prices in the market. These transactions are thus among the types of outstanding balances that create fewer control problems for tax authorities. In addition, the specific regulation of share law comes in the same way as for loans. The Progress Party therefore proposes that Section 8-12 of the Tax Act be repealed. The party to the progress is also concerned that the lack of freedom to provide group contributions under the general rules applicable to other companies is justified by the fact that the tax liability on financial income of companies taxed by companies is limited. However, with effect from the 2000 year of revenue, full tax liability has been imposed on net financial income. Consequently, the reasons for the exemption from the general rules on group contributions have been deleted. The natural consequence of this is that the general freedom to provide group contributions with income-balancing effects is also introduced for companies taxed by companies. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals to this effect. The Progress Party is also concerned that the tonnage tax is part of the income tax system and therefore considers that it must also be treated as income tax. This means that the tonnage tax should be included in the tax capital account of the company, as stated. the third paragraph of Section 8-15 of the Tax Act. When the tonnage tax is not taken into account in the taxed capital account, this implies a double taxation by failing to compensate the company for the tonnage tax paid on dividends and withdrawal of the shipping tax scheme. In the Netherlands, Germany and England, the tonnage tax is fully defined as an ordinary income tax. We therefore propose that the estimated tonnage tax should be included in the tax revenue account. As regards the Government's proposal for access to the exchange of information between the tax authorities and the Labour Inspectorate, the Progress Party considers that it is generally and fundamentally important that there are no too many exceptions to the general rules on professional secrecy, because this is a rapid breach of privacy. The government’s proposals may – without being intended to be – threaten the legal certainty of taxpayers who, through errors of writing, misinterpretation or misinterpretation, provide incorrect information. The Progress Party sees that increased exchange of information for control purposes between the two departments could lead to more efficient use of control resources. This, however, is in itself an argument that completely fails to protect taxpayers from disclosure to the authorities of the equation. It is alarming that this aspect is not particularly problematic in the proposition and that the proposition does not impose any relevant restrictions on the proposed access to information exchange. The progress party indicates otherwise to Innst. O. No 46 for 1991-92 and will vote against the proposal to amend paragraphs 3 to 13 of the Equation Act. 2 (b). With regard to the Government's proposal that the right to have a secret telephone number in practice be abolished, I would like to show that it follows from the first paragraph of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights that everyone has the right to respect for their privacy and family life, their home and their correspondence. The right to free communication provides a central guarantee of the integrity of the individual. The right to keep a secret phone number, etc. is part of the protection of the integrity of persons. The restriction of human rights must be governed by law, and in that case the law must be: «necessary in a democratic society for reasons of national security, public security or the economic well-being of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morality, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others». It is in no way demonstrated that the control authorities have access to information on secret telephone numbers, etc. is necessary in order to ensure the economic well-being of the country and the prevention of crime. The Progress Party will emphasise that Telenor, NHO and the Data Protection Authority have expressed principled scepticism for the legislative proposals. The Progress Party believes that there should be a great deal of caution in relation to the question of eroding the validity of the European Convention on Human Rights in Norway and will therefore be voting against the proposals for amendments to the Customs Act new § 6-13a and the VAT Act new § 48a. I am referring to the proposals that have been made by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and to the proposals that we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e364	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e367	The case spokesperson has done well for the content and position of this case. So I'm going to limit myself to commenting on one point. The Ministry of Finance has interpreted the tax laws of § 8-18, fourth paragraph, point (a) in such a way that group contributions between companies within the shipping tax scheme shall not have an income-absorbing effect. In the context of the Financial Committee, the management of Ot. pp. No 21 have raised the question of the changes in the shipping tax regime introduced with effect from the current year of income, should lead to a change in the above-mentioned practice. In a letter dated 10 February of this year to the Right’s Grandfather’s Group, the Minister of Finance, among others, writes: that, in the light of the changes in the shipping tax regimes adopted, there may be material grounds for assessing the limited ability of companies to make group contributions with income-absorbing effects between companies within the shipping tax system. The Minister of Finance further writes that he will return to this in connection with the 2001 tax package. Given that the changes that have led to such a conclusion are liabilities from the 2000 income year onwards, it is reasonable that in that notification it is considered whether the possibility of providing group contributions with income-absorbing effects between companies within the shipping tax system should be considered from the same date.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e380	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 348]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e388	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e1082	The Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party have warned that they are moving towards the fourth paragraph, the second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e1377	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e1384	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e1390	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, has presented the proposals No. 1-3. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to enable companies with income-balancing effects to make group contributions between themselves within the framework of the net financial income of the year and the income supplement for own funds.’;» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e1660	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e1723	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e1782	The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e1927	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e2022	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e2152	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right, in the case of § 10-34, second paragraph, second sentence:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e2191	It's going to be over the heads of the laws and laws of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-lower.ana.ud338e2198	Statutory decisions will be sent to the Lamentation.
