ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e50	The representatives Jon Lilletun, Jan Petersen, Karin Andersen, Hans J. Røsjorde, John Dale, Lisbet Ruggvedt, and Per Ove Wideth, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and Ågot Valle on leave from 5 June to 8 June, both to take part in the UN Special Session in New York for the follow-up of the Women's Conference in Beijing from the Parliamentary Delegation to the 46th session of the Western European Union Assembly, first part, in Paris, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, on leave from 5 June to 8 June, for the representatives of Dag Danielsen, Grethe Fossli, Ingvald Godal, Laila Kaland, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Finn Kristian Marthinen, Marit Tingelstad and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Telemark County, Gunn Marit Helgesen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative of Ingvald Godal's leave from 5 June to 8 June for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Rikke LindFor Buskerud County: Unni Hennum LieFor Hordaland County: Eirik Langeland MountainFor More and Romesdal County: Kjell Terje Fevåg and Modulf AukanFor Uppland County: Terje J. StensengFor Oslo: Sissel DagsletFor Rogaland County: Ingrid FiskaaFor Telemark County: Kari Lise Holmberg3. Rikke Lind, Kjell Terje Fevåg and Terje J. Stenseng are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Grethe Fossli, Laila Kaland and Marit Tingelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e179	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e182	I allow myself to make proposals to introduce legal provisions which mean that refugees residing in a municipality with an integration grant cannot receive public financial support for living if they reside in another Norwegian municipality, and proposals to set up Norwegian State Nursing Company AS with a share capital of 500 million. crowns to build and operate health care institutions in southern countries. [[STATTERING]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e187	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15, until the end of the current map. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e206	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Bjørn Tore Godal State Council Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen State Council Otto Gregussen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e225	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: Over the past week, the Minister of Finance has announced that next year there will be tax increases. He has also stated clearly that he will not do anything about the sky-high Norwegian level of fuel and petrol. According to VG today, the Labour Party government refuses to lift a finger to reduce the record high petrol price. At the same time, the Government had now announced a border trade package in the revised budget, but it is now exposed to the autumn budget. Will the Minister of Finance insist that he will not do anything with the exceptionally high Norwegian fuel charges, or will the Norwegian fees be assessed in relation to such a border trade package?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e234	Let me first say that in the revised budget, the Government has announced that next year's budget will review the tax system with a view to improving the distribution effect of the tax. I see that some newspapers have interpreted it as increasing the general tax burden on ordinary people, but that's not what I said. I have said that we want to have a clearer distribution direction on fiscal policy. So I'm sorry that I haven't read the essay in the world today. The World Gang journalist did not get hold of me yesterday – we tried to get in touch with each other. But I have never stated that it is impossible to assess the issue of the petrol and fuel charge in connection with the charge conversion that will take place. On the contrary, this government has not increased the taxes on petrol and car diesel, which we have proposed for the first time since the introduction of the car diesel tax. And if the Storting agrees with it in the consideration of the revised budget, the levy will be somewhat reduced compared to what is happening today. So it is right, as the representative says, that in connection with the reform of VAT, we have announced that we will also go through excise duties and special excise duties that have a significant impact on border trade, and in this context also the fuel taxes will be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e241	With regard to the level of taxation, a higher marginal tax rate than 50 pst was collected in Norway last year. It violates the fundamental features of tax reform, so it is worrying if the Minister of Finance intends to increase it further, for all other countries will now try to get well below 50 pst. With regard to the fuel and petrol charges, it is correct that the Government is now proposing a reduction of the diesel tax by 20 cents – in order to reduce it to the same level as last autumn, it is important to bring it with it. But to what's in the world's way. As they did not get hold of the finance minister, they got hold of Erik Dalheim, who is the Labour Party's fiscal figure, and he says it's not relevant for the Government now to lift a finger to lower the taxes on petrol and diesel further. Does the Minister of Finance now say that the Government can consider doing this, that it is no longer possible to pay 11-12 kroner for petrol in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e250	Let me first point out that the revised budget does not propose any changes to the petrol tax. On the other hand, there is a proposal to amend the diesel tax. Then, in connection with the presentation of the budget for next year, we will assess the different charges, and not least the taxes on goods that are specifically exposed to borders, and then we will also assess the fuel taxes. I agree with the representative that we have a high level of these fees in Norway, it has been a desired policy in the sense that it is part of the overall funding of the state. There are no dramatic differences between, for example: The right hand party and the Labour Party in view of these charges, especially in a situation where the Workers' Party has proposed to reduce the diesel tax by 20 cents. But these are questions that I must be allowed to come back to in connection with the annual budget, and I will not exclude an assessment of the fuel tax in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e255	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e258	I note that the Minister of Finance uses the word ‘estimate’. Following the budgetary conciliation between the Centre and the Workers' Party, the examination of the State budget in the autumn made it clear that, in the context of the revised budget, we would see a proposal for a reduction in taxes on alcohol, in particular in order to improve the border trade problem. But again the government comes and says that they will assess this – and at least not until the harvest. What is the meaning of this word ‘appraisal’ when, on several occasions, the Labour Party spokesperson, Dalheim, has been out in the newspapers and pretended that the Workers' Party actually believes it is serious about reducing the taxes on alcohol? So when it comes to the problem, you don't want to do it, and I really want to know how long the government intends to evaluate this question before they're going to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e263	I would like to repeat in the Grand Hall what has been said in various contexts and, as the representative has certainly recorded, that the Government in the budget submitted for the autumn will propose a reduction in the tax on alcohol. It is not least related to the changes taking place in the countries around us. An understanding has now been reached between Sweden and the EU on the entry rules for Sweden. This means that the level of charges in Sweden will be deferred, and Sweden will have to deal with it, and we have to deal with the possible border trade effects. So I would like to repeat what I have said before, that the Government will, in the context of the budget for the autumn, propose changes to the taxes on alcohol, and then I am talking about changing downwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e270	Jon Lilletun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e274	It does not apply to alcohol taxes, but it relates to the VAT proposition mentioned by the Council of State in its first reply. As we have seen in the media in recent times, travel life is currently having serious problems. There is a drop in the number of tourists, and the investment ambition is stopping because a fear of VAT on overnight stays in the coming message. Would it not be a handshake to the tourism industry about the Minister of Finance now make it clear that the tourism industry is already so high when it comes to price in relation to international competition that VAT will not be applicable? It would really be a handshake from the Government to a travel life that is currently feeling pressured.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e281	I have registered that some of the recent state councils have a somewhat different view of the matter after they have left the government offices than they had before. I registered that the representative Lilletun as a member of the Government did not have the view that he expressed here. It was not signalled by the previous government that there should be no VAT on overnight stays. On the contrary, there are recorded signals to introduce it, but at a lower rate than the general rate. These are issues that this government will also consider, so it is not natural for me to conclude on the different elements of VAT reform at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e286	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e289	I have a question for the Minister of Defence concerning the Workers' Party and the credibility of the Labour Party Government. In the context of the budget, the Labour Party, as far as I understood, argued that the cost of peacekeeping operations abroad would not have an impact on other parts of the budget. We also got the impression that the Workers' Party was opposed to cuts in the defence budget, and especially in the middle of a year. The government of the revised national budget and the revision of the state budget have now said for some remarkable reason that because the bureaucrats misjudged the expenditure of our forces abroad, it should go beyond the ordinary defence with cuts of half a billion dollars in the middle of the year, and cut here at home, for example. not to purchase equipment for hospitals. Where is the relationship in the Government's defence budget when you make such a big change and start saving on health care in Norway to pay bills you promised not to go beyond anything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e296	There is no doubt that poor budgeting was being carried out in connection with our international operations in Kosovo. It gave an additional bill of DKR 1.3 billion. And if the defense had not contributed anything to the payment of this bill, it could have gone beyond the sick and the weak and a long number of other purposes, which could have experienced greater cuts if the defense had not taken its share of the cuts. I agree with Mr Hagen that this is not desirable. It has to be better budgeted in the Defence in the future, so that we can get real costs on the table. But it would – I must admit the Minister of Finance – be completely unreasonable that the defense did not take its part in the responsibility for the large extrapolation that we received in an extraordinary situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e303	Why in the world should other items be cut when the bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance have miscalculated, so that there will be an increase in tax revenue in the order of DKK 5 billion? Why can the increased tax revenue not cover these additional costs? It doesn't have anything to do with activity, because you've miscalculated. In addition, we have received SEK 50 billion more in revenues from the North Sea business. Why does it have to be cut into other things? It doesn't make any sense when the Treasury has enough money. And now it's all about the government maybe going in to send forces back to Lebanon. Are we going to expect it to mean increased excesses for sick people and further intrusions in Norwegian society because the government is going to be a major international priority instead of taking care of the necessary things for most people in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e308	The defense as a whole got a net plus 800 million. NOK through the operations we have now performed. But it's true that we took 500 of the 1,300 million. kr on your own coat. If we hadn't done that, there could be increased prowess and more cut in other important areas. I will not answer for the Ministry of Finance's bureaucrats, but it is beyond doubt that we need to have a link between expenditure and revenue on the state budget if we are not to have undesirable effects on the Norwegian economy. That responsibility must also be borne in mind by the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e313	There will be follow-up questions – Ingvald Godal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e316	We'll come back to the specific matter later today. But in the context of the Hagen question, I might like to point out that this has been a general problem throughout the 1990s, that a sub-budget about the cottage and then come back to revised and take from funds that are earmarked for defence investment. The only exception from this was when the old government was dependent on right-wing support. Then we didn't go along with it, we said that the government would rather go than keep going that way, and then it ended this. The question is whether we should not end this, so that we can have effective planning of the use of our defence funds, because it is impossible to plan properly when one is going to proceed in this way. It leads to a bad economy, a bad use of our economic resources, and there's no real sense of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e323	I basically agree with the representative of Ingvald Godal. This has multiple pages. The situation in Kosovo was exceptional. Rarely has Stortinget received an additional bill of 1.3 billion kroner for something that should have been several times lower. If we had had a review of it at an earlier stage, we would have had a picture of what the operation would cost. I did not find it unreasonable to contribute anything above the Defence's ordinary budget in the extraordinary situation that arose then, and that had dissipated during the previous government's budgetary planning and procedure. Something had to take the defense, and not so little either. But it's a net plus 800 million. kr for the Defense if we see international operations and the Defence in the context. Then it's the second theme that's taken up by the representative. We must have better budgeting in defence, even in the case of heavy investment projects, so that we do not exceedances. I'm assuming that there's a least as interesting part of this picture as the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e330	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e334	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Now we're balaring with the revised budget, and I'm not going to ask questions about it. But one of the things that we're worried about is, of course, the increase in people's fear of spending, both the impact it will have for the rest of the year, and the impact we see comes every year. The Bondevik government responded to that concern by putting down the Sandman selection, and we're waiting for their autumn setting. Parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party has written an article that has stood in one of our newspapers, calling for a joint responsibility to see what we can do to mitigate the increase in expenditure. That article answered Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg very positively. But I get a little more concerned when I hear what the Minister of Finance says. In the Political Quarter on 22 May, the Minister of Finance said – before he has seen the Sandman Committee's position – that one does not have plans for changes in the basic legislation. I think we need regulatory changes to bring down the growth of the expenses of the population, at the same time as we want to have a good and safe popular security for those who are going to accept the benefits. [[President clubs]] Has the Minister of Finance decided before he sees the position of the Sandman Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e343	The President reminds us of the limitation in speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e346	It is generally positive when invited to work together in the EEA to assess common challenges, not least in this area. It's a challenge that we face together, and where this government also awaits the attitude that comes from the Sandman Committee. What I said in the Political Quarter is that this government has no plans to change, for example. the basic rules of the sick pay scheme. I record that the previous government did not propose it, and that was what was expressed by my statement in Political Quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e353	My follow-up question is, in fact, that one says that one should not have any changes to the basic legislation. At the same time, the government imposes an extra burden on one of the parties, and then you have to ask the question, "Is that only one of the parties with regard to their expenses, and not the others?" This is a combined work – there are several people who have to pay for the people's rights, and there are several who accept the benefits. But if a friend is a party, should not one also look at the peace of other parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e358	Let me first repeat that I registered that the previous government did not propose changes on that point either. I have recorded that it is a wish of the former government parties to have common views, including in the Stortinget, and assume that it is still on the ground. Then it is true that the government has proposed a change in the employer's responsibilities. It is a proposal that is consistent with proposals made earlier, both by the government of Jagland and by the government of Bondevik. We have therefore had good hope that it would be a proposal that was consistent with the views of a majority in the Grand Duchy. There is a significant difference between this proposal and proposals for legislative changes to workers, in the sense that employers can also influence the working environment. On the part of the Government, this is also a desire to have an incentive for employers to organise the working environment in such a way as to reduce absenteeism.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e365	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e368	All measures that make it more expensive and more difficult to hire people with health problems may not be of good value if you want more people to get work, as well as changes in the health pay system. The problem now is that we are in a way going beyond the most serious problem we have especially in the public sector, that we are going to get more workers. There is a terrible shortage of workers to do the important jobs in the school and health sectors. Would it not have been better to use more resources to train people, to give people the skills to take these jobs, rather than to focus on measures that make it more expensive for employers to hire people with some health problems, or to attack people's rights schemes that should be as good as today's?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e373	There's no contradiction between the two things. Changing the responsibilities of the employer, prolonging the responsibilities of the employer, is a contribution to encouraging employers to adapt the working environment so that sick leave can be reduced. However, it is not contrary that we should, in general, also seek, through labour market policies, to facilitate the participation of people with some sort of disease in the labour force with their labour force. So I would generally agree with what the representative here is saying, that it is an objective that we should, among other things. through the labour market instruments, contribute to the organisation of the labour market so that no one is excluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e378	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e381	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. A report from the State Institute for Alcohol Research shows that food prices are the main reason for the increase in border trade. An MMI investigation confirms the same thing. The main trade and service industries have recently submitted a report with forecasts of increased trade and with a number of proposals for action. One of the proposals is the assessment of reduced food tax – a proposal for which the Centre Party strongly sympathises. The Minister of Finance is currently conducting a VAT reform. I want to give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to confirm that, in that context, he takes seriously the signals that have come so far in relation to the border trade, and so and so confirm that he considers reducing the food tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e388	I believe that the reduction of food tax will be a small targeted tool in relation to border trade. One important reason for this is that it is mainly meat that is a borderline product, and by reducing the food tax, we assume that the Central Party also believes that it should apply in general to all food products. This means that it is not being targeted, but at a high cost in relation to the border trade problem we are facing. The second is that there has also been a public sample in work, the Christiansen Committee, which has assessed whether a differentiated VAT on food will be targeted also in relation to the issue of distribution. This is so far not clearly documented. On the other hand, if we want to take distribution policy considerations into account in relation to families with children, in relation to pensioners and in relation to other groups, it would be much more targeted to use the right instruments in relation to those groups than to reduce VAT on food. The government is concerned about the development of the price of food. Change and reduction in the target prices of different agricultural products can be a contribution in this respect, but I would like to say in general that I see reduced VAT on food as a small targeted instrument in relation to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e396	Belgium currently has a standard rate of VAT of 21 pst. and a food tax of 6 pst., Italy has 20 pst. And a food tax of 10 pst., Germany has 16 pst. and a matrimony of 4 p.m., and Sweden has 25 p.m. and a matrimonium of 12 pst. In addition to Norway, only Denmark has the same VAT rate on food and other goods. One doesn't really need a selection to see that those who spend most of their income on food, i.e. those who have the least money, will start with reduced VAT. It will be politically important, and therefore a further harmonisation of the level of charges between countries, all the time Sweden has 12 pst. food moms. Why this bastant rejection?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e401	So we've had a public sample in function that has concluded that this is a small targeted tool in relation to the issues of distribution policy raised here. In addition, there are significant technical issues related to having different VAT rates in a commercial spectrum where there are different products to go over the same cashier, to say the least. But it's the case that if you, for example, would reduce the VAT on food to half the level, is equal to NOK 6 billion. Then the question will be what, if you want to achieve the policy objectives, you could have used the 6 billion as an alternative measure. And it is that the investigation so far shows that an alternative application will be more targeted to improve the distribution profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e406	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e409	It's strange to hear that it's not going to be very targeted to reduce the food tax in order to bring down the food prices and to get better distribution. The working party claims that what is now done in the agricultural settlement to reduce the price to Norwegian farmers by 5 pst. is important to get prices down. It has an effect of $500 for a family of three per. years, it's so little. Half of the food tax for a family of three means NOK 5000 a year. What really monks if you want to bring down the food prices, is to halve the food tax. So this is what other people have done. Those who have spoken in connection with the agricultural notification in the United Kingdom have all said that they will have the food tax down to reduce border trade and maintain jobs and value creation in Norway. What is now said by the Council of State here and also by the Minister of Agriculture may suggest that what is important for the Workers' Party now is getting fewer farmers, not getting cheaper food. I want to ask the question: is the most important thing now for the Workers' Party to get cheaper food, or are there other things that are more important?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e418	Let me first say that I have not registered that Stortinget has said that the VAT on groceries is going down, you have asked for an assessment, and that is something quite different. So, as I also said in my reply to Mr Kleppa's representative, there have been thorough assessments of the distribution policy impact of reduced food VAT on other types of instruments. And if we want to achieve specific objectives in relation to the distribution policy, there are other instruments that are more focused on that. So it may well be that a reduction in the food tax will have positive effects on Norwegian agriculture. It's an element that you obviously have to include in such an assessment. But if you ask how to achieve the objectives you want, for example: in relation to families with children, the most targeted relative to it is not reduced food tax. For example, there will be: an increase in child welfare is more targeted, without me wanting to advertise it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e425	Jon Lilletun - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e428	I notice that Council of State Schjøtt-Pedersen has applied the way to respond to the previous government party and former government councils that they mean one thing in government and one thing in opposition. There's someone who has experience and competence when it comes to saying different in opposition and in government, it's exactly Schjøtt-Pedersen. But what he said about tourism was wrong. What Sponheim, the Minister of Industry and the Government said, was that one should have a lower rate of VAT, but that one group of people should have a grip that did not increase the burden on the tourism industry. What I then challenge the Council of State Schjøtt-Pedersen at once again is whether he is willing to say the same thing, that the total grips of the VAT reform should be so that travel life in these days does not get an added burden, so that the desire to invest and to stand on within that industry changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e433	Strictly speaking, this is a question that lies outside the main question that has now been asked, but let me answer it. What I am referring to was that the national budget for 2000 said that it would assess reduced VAT on travel and passenger transport. The type of assessments this government will also make. But my point in relation to the representative’s question in the previous round was that the representative gave the impression that it should not be relevant to assess VAT on travel life at all. So it's not the signal given by the previous government, and it was the starting point for my response, which contains the room for assessments that the representative probably registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e438	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e441	In the case of differentiation of the food tax, Norway differs from most other countries. There they have put the food industry under competition, it is subject to competition law, so that pressure has been put on the operators. This has not been done in Norway, so I agree with the Council of State, which says that the level of success will be relatively low by differentiating the food tax. My question to the Council of State is that the Swedish border has become a single long trade union. At Stroemstad you call the area Little Norway, everyone speaks Norwegian, you hit the neighbor, the sibling from Gjøvik, etc. The main organisation of the trade and service industry has calculated that we lose SEK 5 billion in tax revenue by allowing so many Norwegians to trade in Sweden, pay excise duties in Sweden, VAT in Sweden and much more, and we lose approx. 10 000 jobs on the Norwegian side, unemployment is on the way up again, and was at the last statistics 91,000. Are these numbers from HSH?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e448	The President will remember, sir. Heath current about the speaking time limitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e452	I'll have the opportunity to go through the numbers from HSH before I confirm their correctness. On the other hand, what I see as the point in the representative's question is that we have a problem related to the scale of border trade. We agree on that. That's also why this government has said that we want to review it, and we want to do something about it. We have taken a first step, albeit not revolutionary, by proposing to reduce the diesel tax in the revised budget, and we have announced that in the context of the VAT reform, which has been the subject of several rounds in this questionnaire, we will also assess other steps. And then alcohol has been mentioned as an example, and I confirmed on a previous question that we will also consider the question of the fuel tax. In short, I recognize that we are facing a problem. We are prepared to do something about it, but I cannot promise that we will have the same fees as Sweden in all areas. It would be a grip that would probably be something bigger than it's realistic to keep still in view.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e457	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e460	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Every time we have budgetary debates in Stortinget, the concepts of «tightness» and «budget balance sheet» are very central. In recent days, however, several leading economists have been out saying that the Progress Party has long claimed, namely that it is fully possible to use part of our oil assets, among others. by purchasing equipment abroad, which does not have a price-driven effect in Norway. And I don't understand – but it's possible the finance minister can explain it to me – why the workers' party government is not willing to consider creating a so-called foreign budget so that we, for example, can. can buy sorely needed hospital equipment abroad, which has the positive effect on Norwegian society that we actually get to treat more patients who are in line. Today, Director Knut Schrøder is at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø and says he needs new equipment to treat cancer patients, but he does not get the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e467	The government is spending more money on health care, the government is spending more money on care for the elderly, the government is spending more money on social security. It's not like we're saving all the oil money. On the contrary, from 1971 until today, we have spent 800 billion kroner on the state budget of so-called oil money. We spend oil money every day. It is true that we have money on the oil fund – a lot of money on the oil fund. But it's also the case that the state's pension liabilities amount to NOK 2 600 billion, and only in the current year, the pension obligations increase more than what we set aside in the oil fund, but that's not my point. The budget balance is not a sacred amount. This year of high unemployment, we have to use the state budget to get the wheels going, and that's not many years since we had tens of billions of dollars in deficit in the budget, and that was right then. But the opposite is that this year we have to use less pressure in the economy. The economy is now going too far, and there is a shortage of labour in many sectors. If we spend even more money, experience shows that it can lead to higher interest rates and long-term increases in unemployment. So I'd like to nuance the picture that, among other things. The representative is trying to draw. It is not the case that this government is pursuing a policy where saving money is a primary objective; this government is pursuing a policy to prevent increased pressure on interest and increased unemployment. In addition, it is an important element that we should not burden future generations even more, and that we should therefore also add some money to the oil fund. I am pleased that a broad majority in the UK has agreed to this assessment. There is also a broad majority in the UK who have agreed that the type of foreign budget that the representative here argues for should not be introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e474	I think the government actually intends to save money, because in the context of the revised budget, you're very busy covering every single increase in the cost of crowns. But in the same period we're talking about, Norway has received $5.6 billion in additional tax revenue. But in the revised budget, the government claims that those billions should not have any budgetary tightening or impact, and I also have problems understanding that. I have problems understanding why the increased tax revenue should not have any effect, so you choose to put an increased burden on business in the form of an extended employer's period, you put an increased burden on the families with children and increase some taxes, but you leave the 5.6 billion to be collected as a deposit, and I would like the Minister of Finance to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e479	Yes, as has always been the case, it is not that increased tax revenue, due to increased pressure, leads to budgetary containment. I would like to stress that yesterday the international organisation for economic cooperation and development provided new estimates for the Norwegian economy, and they say that there is a significant risk of overheating the Norwegian economy. The OECD believes that economic policy must be set up with a view to reducing the pressure on the economy, as the Government has also said. And it says that if it doesn't happen through the budgets, the Norwegian Bank has to set up the interest rate. Unfortunately, when the representative Jensen, to whom she has a unique ability to do so, manufactures one side of the case, she is in danger of forgetting what is the consequence of the policy she is arguing for, and it is the loss of thousands of jobs in Norwegian industry and the competitive sector. There is also a policy that will give young people who have bought new homes a significantly higher interest rate on their loans. I'm glad it's not a majority in the Stortinget that is behind such a policy. On the contrary, I feel that the Progress Party is all alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e484	There will be follow-up questions – Terje Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e487	I have every sense of the Minister of Finance's reasoning on the macro-plane. But it will be as the Minister of Finance expressed it, perhaps also to nuance this a little bit. Let me give you an example: in the Rikshospitalet, they have now stopped surgery on the implantation of hearing aids in young children who have to operate before they are three years old so that they can live a slightly more normal life. This is the first good store, because this operation, which is very expensive – it costs 300,000 kroner – pays off in the long run by getting a less need for special education. But in addition, it is possible to buy these operations abroad. I find it hard to understand that we can't afford to do such things, because it will prove that neither the balance nor domestic demand will be affected, and that's a good store in the long term. That's my main score.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e492	Let me first remind the representative Johansen that he himself has opposed the kind of foreign budget for which he now strictly argues, just a week ago. But what is an additional element is that what the Storting considers to be the most important areas to invest in, it obviously has room within the budget. If it's important to bet on an area, it becomes a priority, and then it comes within the budget. What's not in the budget is what's being prioritised down and that's being considered less important than anything else that's standing there. Then, of course, there are expenditures that have a less direct impact on the Norwegian economy than others. But this isn't a black and white image. If Terje Johansen and I get paid, we might use 50 pst. of these revenues to purchase goods produced in Norway and 50 pst. goods produced abroad. On the other hand, when it comes to bilateral assistance, I think everything goes abroad. So it's about 40 pst. are Norwegian-produced goods and services and around 60 pst. come from abroad. This isn't a black and white picture, and so it's that through the state budget you have a reasonable balance in the composition of these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e499	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e502	I have an additional question for the Minister of Finance. It is quite clear that the Minister of Finance mixes apples and pears with the debate last week on a foreign budget. It is true that most parties opposed the argument of the Progress Party on such a budget, but it is nevertheless incomprehensible to a number of parties, including the Socialist Left Party, that it should not be possible to make investments abroad. So we're now getting suggestions from the Government on a cut of 540 million. SEK 38 million for equipment in hospitals. SEK 22 million for child and youth psychiatry. kr i cut to the outpatient clinics at the hospitals and cut off an entry of 5 million. kr for rehabilitation. In parallel with that, the government will now continue to bet on a frigate purchase that will cost us 800 million. kr, despite discussion. The construction must be realized in relation to the Mauken-Blatin firing range and the shooting field of the East. Can the Minister of Finance explain that while there should not be any means of making a decent contribution to the hospital and health sectors now due to the risk of overheating, the type of investment I mentioned here in parallel in the defence sector is to be financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e510	The question of the purchase of frigates is an excellent example of the issue of foreign effects or not. Because, as was said in an interview in the newspaper yesterday: If you buy frigates without repurchase, it has less impact on the Norwegian economy. But that's not the point. So even if you buy frigates in Spain, we have repurchase agreements that allow us to produce Norwegian goods and services on a similar scale, and then we stimulate the Norwegian economy. With regard to the questions that representatives Ballo raise, about the equipment plan and about the psychiatry, I would like to stress that the scope of the equipment plan is fixed, but you're stretching it over a slightly longer period of time. And in the case of psychiatry, it's so that experience emerges a certain degree of delay, and we believe that the 38 million. The proposed re-disposal for other purposes will later be brought back to the mental health escalation plan. Therefore, this re-disposal does not mean that the overall size of the escalation plan will be reduced, but will be extended over a slightly longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e517	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e520	The finance minister says that the equipment plan is firm, but that it is being extended over time. As a result, Norwegian patients in need of treatment have to wait longer for the best equipment available — and we are talking about the world’s second largest oil exporting nation. The representative Johansen was involved with this with cochlea implants, i.e. hearing aids for young children. The previous government didn't do anything about it, nor has this government done anything about it. The Progress Party is the only party to which 10 million have been added in the context of the revised national budget. kr to this fund to help young children who have never heard before to hear. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Is the Minister of Finance able to see the relationship between children who do not have hearing and those who do not receive treatment also in the future to burden the public money budget and thus the public expenditure, and perhaps to reduce the cost of people's money by treating patients more quickly and in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e529	I have no problem seeing that. But it's not like I'm arguing against installing hearing aids for people who need it. What is my main argument is that the total use of money should not be so large that it contributes to increasing the pressure on interest rates and increasing the pressure on unemployment. It will be a situation that is also unfortunate in relation to hospitals, and many of them are financed by large loans. Then it becomes a question of what we're going to spend that money on what we have within this framework. There may be different priorities between the different parties in Stortinget, and then we'll have to discuss it. But we have to separate the discussion about what kind of framework it makes sense to have in a situation where there is pressure in the economy, where the international organisation for economic development says that there is now so much pressure that one has to hold back on budgetary policy, otherwise the alternative is increased interest rates, and the other problem, which is what we spend the money for. So let's think about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e534	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e537	My question also goes to the Minister of Finance. Recently, he has made a number of hard-working attempts to explain to the Norwegian people that we cannot spend more public money in the economy, and he continues his educational project here today as well. I agree with him that there should be consistency between the monetary and real economy aspects – and that is important. If we are to do something in the public sector, we must first of all redistribute widely. That's what the answer is, I guess. And I expect the Minister of Finance to agree. If we are to do something in the education sector and if we are to do something in the health sector, we need a redistribution between private consumption and public consumption. In an investigation, the LO pointed out that the introduction of tax on dividends is an important issue and one for which they are in favour. Dividends on shares have increased by 141 pst. from 1993 to 1998. These are the actual conditions that LO points to. And my question to the Minister of Finance is: Does he agree with LO, and will he go in to do something about taxing dividends on shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e544	The proposal referred to by the representative, Mr Rikvam, will represent a quite significant change in relation to the tax reform underpinning it, and the Government has not proposed any changes to the revised budget submitted to the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e549	Thanks for the answer. I wasn't just thinking about the revised national budget, I'm looking a little further ahead. This will result in an increase in revenue for the country of approx. NOK 3-4 billion, maybe NOK 5 billion if one follows up LO's scheme of 15 pst. tax on dividends on shares. So if we look at this in a slightly longer perspective, if we look forward to the 2001 budget and perhaps even further, is the Council of State prepared to go in and see if we need to tax dividends in order to get a distribution and also generate revenue for the public so that we can implement important public areas of activity such as education and health?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e554	Let me first say that there will probably be some adjustments in relation to the payment of dividends if such a scheme were to be implemented, so I think the estimates that the representative Rikham refers to are clear at the top of what is likely. As I said, the Labour Party has assumed that we are continuing the tax reform that is there. We have not made proposals for changes in taxes and dividends. What we have done, on the other hand, is that we have announced in the revised national budget that we want to review the overall distribution effects of fiscal policy. There may be many different measures that can be assessed in this context. We will come back to that in connection with the budget proposal for the autumn. The individual things there I naturally don't want to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e561	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e564	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. The Bondevik government started a new era in business policy, and what happened was a deliberate shift from supporting large groups to moving on to doing something for the innovations. Now, in the revised national budget, serious cuts have been made – over 200 million. kr in the SND budget – and you have been inside the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Local Affairs and collected money to go to the innovations and to work to support them. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Is it the case that a deliberate change of business policy has now been made back to the old one that was before the Workers' Party with power, and away from the Bondevik government's innovation line?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e572	I don't think Norwegian business life experienced the Bondevik government's industrial policy as a new era in industrial policy – at least not characterised by offensive attitudes. So in this way, this government aims to implement a change in industrial policy towards a more offensive industrial policy, a policy that is more focused on innovation, the development of information technology, etc. than the Bondevik government. Then we have had a rather special situation when dealing with the revised national budget. I would like to point out that the revised national budget was presented within two months of this government's accession, and that was the case – as I assume that the representative Johansen is also well understood – that there were an extraordinary number of so-called unpaid bills to be paid, as any government that was then in the government offices, had to have submitted proposals for the collection of if one were to continue the financial arrangement as the representative Johansen and I have agreed for this year. And when it comes to covering €3.5 to 4 billion in the revised national budget, it is also necessary to make reductions in areas where reductions should have been avoided. But overall, the government has put forward a proposal that means that we are continuing the tightness of the economic environment, and that we have avoided increasing the pressure on the economy and increasing the pressure on interest rates. That is what is the starting point of the proposals. I am not saying that every proposal contained in the revised national budget is a signal of political change in the sector in question that has had to reduce in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e579	Now, those of us who have had the opportunity to go into the revised national budget see that there is a pattern in this. Among other things, grants to business areas and to cooperation between research institutions and innovators have been eliminated together with the 200 million. kr in the SND budget; in addition, the spearhead itself in the action of former State Council Sponheim to bring down the form field, a simpler Norway, has also been moved from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and has become some diffuse public sector project. And the project with the so-called SLN reporting, i.e. once-recording of data to three public agencies in one system, is cut by five million. kr. So my claim is that the Workers' Party's talk about innovation is undressed because here you've been stuck in these departments and picked up what was the conversion and that was offensive, and it's in contrast to the beautiful words.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e584	There has been no intention on the part of the Government to give the impression that you want to weaken the innovation. On the contrary, this Government wants to put forward a policy that increases innovation efforts. This is why, as the representative Johansen has probably recorded in the review of the revised national budget, there are also some new measures in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in this way. With regard to the question of the form field, etc., what is perhaps the main focus of this government is the importance of the renewal of the public sector. And I can reassure and reassure the representative Johansen that a collection of this effort at all does not represent any reduced level of ambition, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e591	There will be additional questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e594	I note that the Minister of Finance does not have any political justification for all the redundancies that have been made in the revised national budget, and that was an eye-catching statement. Many companies need more assistance to start up, because this will contribute to value creation. However, many enterprises also have very large dividends that they pay, such as: as dividends from shares which are not taxed. When the Minister of Finance is so concerned with the attitude of millimeters to the budgetary balance, it would not have been possible to look at a reasonable tax on dividends and at the same time make it possible to maintain the aid arrangements necessary for small enterprises – perhaps even larger enterprises – in Norway to get what they need in order to get up and stand, because that is one of the things we have to live on in the future? So instead of allowing large revenues to fly completely without tax, you show a very greedy attitude towards subsidies that companies need to start up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e601	First, I have to be allowed to correct a so-called obvious misunderstanding. Of course, the Government has a political justification for what is being done in the revised national budget, in the sense that it wishes to continue a budget with the same rigour as that underpinned by the last harvest of the budget, a budget that helps to prevent increased pressures in the economy, increase interest rates and increase the pressure on unemployment. That is the political justification; it is a budget for, among other things. preventing new growth in unemployment. However, each cut that has unfortunately been necessary within the budget does not have a strong political justification. So it's not like that, for example. the reduction within SND is justified by the desire to reduce SND. But if you want to cover NOK 3 to 4 billion, you have to show it somewhere, and so does it. So to the next question, does the Minister of Finance have a millimetre attitude to the budget balance? No, I just said the opposite instead. Budget balance is not sacred [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e608	On the other hand, the number is fairly sacred. Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e613	The finance minister now said that the government inherited some bills of NOK 3.5 billion. Several of these are the result of a failure to calculate the amount of red tape, by increasing the expenditure than estimated, among other things. In popular terms, by not dying as many older people as the government had expected, so that there was more in old age pension payments, there were several unsatisfied people who continued to be ill-satisfied, etc. In my eight years in the Financial Committee, there was never talk of consequences in other areas when it turned out that bureaucracy had been miscalculated, there is something this and the previous government have put in place. My question is, when you inherit bills, why can't you cover it with the other bills? After all, there have been 5 billion more taxes and taxes than calculated, why can't they be used to pay these extra costs? Otherwise, I'd be allowed to say that I think almost everything in the remarks of the Minister of Finance is pointless, faulty and incomprehensible to most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e622	First of all, I have to say that the changes in popular security are not primarily due to the old age pension, they are other elements that have primarily increased. It's a long tradition to do containment the way you do it now. I would ask that the representative Hagen return to the time he was in the finance committee, and I feel convinced that he will have security for it. If an increase in activity in the economy leads to an increase in taxes and taxes, there is no real impact. On the other hand, if you have increased sick leave, for example, it is a form of expenditure that is traditionally covered by the budget. Then I register that the representative Hagen indicates that things are deaf and so forth. The whole point is that the representative Hagen wants another temperature meter to measure the temperature of the economy, but if the temperature is too high, it won't go down even if you change the temperature meter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e631	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e634	I would like to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: We read in the papers that Ola soldier is too wet for border guard. Half of those sent to the South Varanger border guard are too poor to provide services, the same applies to Garden, despite the priority given to recruiting. We have such a system in this country that we have good contact with young people from the very beginning in the public sphere until they have finished their first-time service. We then have a very nice possibility to make sure that they get good physical births, etc. as a basis for good health for the rest of your life. It is obvious that this option will not be used properly. I might want to ask the Minister of Defense if he wants to take an initiative that both the school student and the defense place much more emphasis on physical birth in the time to come, so that Norwegian youth can get the good start they could have in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e646	I agree with the representative Godal that it is worrying that Norwegian youth seems to have a falling standard in terms of the ability to ski, take a physical effort or wear a slightly heavy backpack. It doesn't just have to do with the defense, it has something to do with the state of health in general. And I agree that both the relevant state councils and others should take it inward and discuss it. I am a little surprised at what the Minister of Defence should do in particular to get the Minister of Church and Education or other ministers to tighten up in that area, but that we are facing a problem that we should be serious about, I fully agree. There is no doubt that alongside the school system, voluntary youth organisations, not least those involved in sports youth, are at the heart of such an image. If the representative of Godal can make good suggestions on what to do without it costing too much money to the Minister of Finance, we are open to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e653	Yeah, you're gonna get that right away. I want proper gymnastics in school. And when they're in for the first-time service, they run hard with physical training! I remember when I came in, it was as far as I could go three kilometers the first week, and after six months I could run miles in the mountains without getting tired of the whole thing. So it all works out, it's just doing it. Good luck, Councillor!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e658	Thank you for the tip! The representative, Godal, is an example of this. Of course, we must have more of that kind – not necessarily politically, but physically.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e663	At least the President recorded that Mr. The Godal went from the chair! So let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e671	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The fact that the Oil Directorate has authorised seismic studies outside the Western Sea and the Lofoten has been a major concern and amazement in fishing circles. We are in the middle of an area of vital importance as both the spawning and growing-up area of central fish species. There can be no doubt that the consequences of seismic collection in this area can – I stress – have serious consequences for resources in the same area. Here it is about seismic shooting – a third of the air cannons that are nearly simultaneously fired – and there is no sure knowledge of the effect. I would like to hear the Minister of Fisheries' assessment that the TGS Nopec company can now start seismic measurements in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e683	It's true, as the representative says, that there is a company that has been authorised to conduct seismic investigations in the Lofoten and the Vestral. A common procedure is that the Oil Directorate, when there are no other reasons, authorises this type of study. Here the Directorate of Fisheries has been consulted, the Institute of Marine Research has been consulted, and in principle they have not advised that this is being done. This was justified by the fact that there could be vital fishing interests in the area which could be harmful. A recommendation has also been made regarding the time at which this should be possible, if it is done anyway. It is therefore my opinion that the investigation currently carried out is sound in relation to the normal occurrence of fishing interests in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e690	I feel reassured that the Minister for Fisheries is worried about what is happening here, and will have an alert eye on it. I would like to point out that in previous concession rounds it has been said quite clearly that there should not be oil exploration or oil drilling in precisely these areas, and I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries if he is still standing by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e695	I believe that it has been decided that in the area in question, which is Northern VII, oil extraction is not relevant, but that these investigations are still being carried out. It is also necessary to ensure that when these surveys are carried out, they must be carried out in such a way as to minimise the disruption of fishing, inter alia. by using fishery experts in the process currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e700	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e712	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3373]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e726	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e735	The Defence Committee is presenting a consensus on this issue, which relates to our military involvement in the Balkans and the financing of it for the next year. The situation in Kosovo is difficult, and there is great uncertainty when it comes to further developments. On this basis, NATO's European commander-in-chief has asked for the KFOR force to be strengthened. The government will return to Stortinget with an assessment of the length and extent of the exposure in connection with next year's budget. The Committee takes note of this. The Committee has also noted that the main part of our remaining contribution to the SFOR team will be phased out in August of this year, and is in agreement with this. The main reason why the Government is presenting this proposition is now a massive overrun in relation to the costs of the KFOR exposure. It's $1,289 million. kr. In the current year’s budget, the total cost of the defence’s participation in international operations was estimated at 860 million. kr. It was said that there is a high degree of ‘uncertainty’ associated with these costs. During the work on the budget of the defence committee last fall, it was clear that the government had only included expenditure on KFOR for around the first six months, despite the fact that it was quite clear that the commitment would be out of the year and beyond. A single committee pointed out this under-budgeting and stressed that the budget as far as possible would cover all the expenditure expected. The government informed that it would come back to the matter in the revised form, and a joint committee argued that this would then be done in accordance with the principle of additional funding, which the Stortinget adopted during the management of the current long-term message, and reiterated and underlined during the management of the budget last autumn. Now it appears that the licenses cover only the KFOR operation out of April, and that the principle of supplementary funding is broken, with half a billion dollars being deducted from the cap. 1760 entry 45 to cover part of the excess. This is the last time the various party fractions will decide on in the Financial Committee's position to be revised. A joint committee has agreed that Norway must stand by the responsibility we have for us in Kosovo and that it is not appropriate to reduce the size of the Norwegian contribution now. However, the Committee suggested that all savings opportunities should be assessed without compromising the safety of personnel and the obligations of Norway. The Committee also argued that the necessary measures would be put in place to avoid recurrence of such matters covered by this Directive. In my opinion, there are very serious aspects of this matter. When only half a year's expenditure is included in a budget, despite the fact that one knows that they will be incurred throughout the year, and then it will be called 'uncertainty', I think it is dangerously close to the limits of misinforming the Stortinget. Over the 1990s, there has been far too often a return to costs in the revised and then used cap. 1760 item 45 as a mixed item for anything other than ‘New acquisitions of material’ in the Defence, to which these funds are ear-marked. When the previous government was dependent on support from the Right and the Advance Party in budgetary context, a stop was set for this. But now we're back on the same problem. The phenomenon is not an insignificant contributing cause of the double imbalance in the Defence today. Real planning and economic household will be impossible when you continue in this way. Defence students and long-term messages are being thrown away a long time ago. This matter is also a clear underestimation of the costs associated with the KFOR operation. Norway now has large strengths in the Balkans for many years, and one should thus have a good basis for assessing the costs of operations in this area. A strong contributing factor to the underestimation was here that the late government did not have the advantage during the air war to plan for that ground operation that everyone knew had to come sooner or later. When the green light for planning finally came, there was urgent work, with the consequences it always has for, among other things. thorough review and costs. This should also take lessons in the future. With these words I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e763	The Defence Committee has closely followed developments in the Balkans following the deployment of peacekeeping forces in Kosovo. The operation is special, because it had a slightly special start, where Norway was also involved. The Committee visited in winter soldiers who were on training to travel to the Balkans. During this visit we learned that the security of the soldiers was in the high seat, and that during this mission they had to use equipment for which they were not used. Among other things, the security equipment we normally see in the police out there in the world. In addition, we know that equipment had to be provided on short notice, and some vehicles had to be armoured on short notice. Haste works means that one often does not get the cheapest. The size was announced in St. Prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 that there was uncertainty about the costs, so it was expected that we would get a supplement, and it was no surprise that we got this proposition. What was a surprise, however, was the amount of the money. Rounded off – NOK 1.3 billion is a lot of money. That is why the Committee's criticism in its comments is well-founded. There is no doubt that for many years the Defence and Defence Department have experience in international operations, both in the Balkans and in other parts of the world. Although this operation is special, as I have mentioned earlier, one can imagine that this time it has been a little poor management of the use of money. It's hard for us to go into the individual posts and analyze them, but that the material costs are higher than usual is no excuse. In the bill, the ministry has referred to four main reasons for the exceedances, and we do not disagree that safety has been put in the high seat and that the equipment thus had to be more expensive. It is also good that the soldiers have received more and better training. However, it is operational expenditure which is the major item and which, according to the Department, was considerably more expensive. It is good that the Department is now carrying out a full review of the incident, so that we can avoid such surprises in retrospect. I guess that's not the last international operation we have to participate in, as the world looks today. Finally, the recovery of this amount was notified by the Government that it would return in the context of the revised national budget. The proposal for containment is now known by the Stortinget, and there is no disagreement that the Committee has previously stated that the costs of international operations are financed in addition to the normal defence framework. The government has not chosen to follow this in full this time. The reason is probably the large amount of money, and one of the reasons for this may seem to be poor governance on the part of the Defence Agency. Therefore, it is quite natural that the defense itself is involved in covering some of these expenses, which the Council of State Godal pointed out earlier today in the spontaneous question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e782	As there is an overall committee that is behind the decision in the vote, it would be unnecessary to drag this in addition to what has been said. I believe that the case rapporteur brought with him what is essential in this. What I might think is a little strange from the latter speaker's side, is that the defense here has bombed. It's not the defense, it's the department that's bombed. And that the defense has got further needs and is out on foreign missions, shouldn't be the defense problem, that's our problem here, and that's also why we're here today and are going to cover things that have been taken over the budget. It is specified in the option to refer to St.prp. No 44 for the period 1999-2000, where it is indicated that the ceiling is exceeded. 1792 at 860 million. kr will cover KFOR by April 2000, while UN observers and reduced SFOR participation will be covered by the year. It is also stated that the total need to participate in the planned KFOR strength composition in 2000 is 2 149 million. SEK, of which 1786 million. SEK applies to KFOR. There is therefore a need for a further allocation of 1,289 million. SEK in addition to the already granted SEK 860 million. kr. This has been said before, and acknowledged. Furthermore, the Committee notes that ‘there is also a clear underestimation of the costs associated with the KFOR operation’. We have participated in the Balkans for a number of years, and it also states that the defence “should thus have a good basis for estimating the costs of operations in this area.” That is quite right, but here too, those who have been sitting and counting on this in the departments have done a thorough underestimation. What the committee is very concerned about, is that these things are not repeating themselves. What we see in the Progress Party is a little bit strange, is that this money is allocated at the same time as it's subtracted 500 million. out of the defence budget. So it's not healthy money in its entirety that comes, but it's taking money within the framework. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 7 for 1999-2000 it says: ‘The Committee agrees that Norway’s involvement in international peace operations is an integral part of Norwegian security and defence policy. At the same time, the Committee stresses the need for the cost of such involvement to be consistently financed in addition to the normal defence framework, and recalls that the Stortinge took this into account during the treatment of the current long-term notification (St.melding. [[1997-1998]] No This Nevertheless, you go out here and take money out of the budget – that is, not fresh money. This does not agree with the Progress Party, and we will come back to this in the context of the revised national budget, and not finance it in this way. Furthermore, we are pleased with the Committee's recommendation that the money be allocated to cover the additional costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e802	Well one year after NATO started its operations in Kosovo, one might ask what would be the situation if NATO had not seized arms and what consequences it would have had. But we want and have a concrete will to create peaceful living conditions for people in the Kosovo area. NATO Secretary-General Lord Robertson said in a speech not long ago that the operation in KOSOVO was necessary because in this area we saw the worst ethnic cleansing in 50 years. He believed that otherwise there would still be a systematic execution of Kosovo Albanians. At the same time, he pointed to the consequences if NATO had not seized arms, and thought countless people would remain in the refugee camps without hope of returning home. He also believed that it was too early to talk about full success for both NATO and Western democracy, but that it was wrong to call the operation a failure. The Christian People's Party shares these views. In St. prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, the Bondevik Government committed 860 million. to international peace operations, mainly to the NATO-led peacekeeping force in Kosovo. The Government pointed out at the time that there was uncertainty about the costs due to the nature and scope of the mission and that the Government would come back to revisions with questions of further appropriations. It has been shown that the appropriations cover only the expenditure of KFOR by April this year. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee is going in to increase the appropriations for Norwegian forces abroad so that the peacekeeping task we have undertaken and are in the process of doing can continue. Increased crime and violence in Kosovo require continued military presence and continued Norwegian participation in NATO forces in the Balkans. We need to be part of and protect minorities, control borders and help maintain law and order so that the civilian population can feel safe, and so that a democratic and multi-ethnic society can grow. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees that we must stand by our commitments in Kosovo, and in the light of the experience gained with regard to the costs of participating in such a peace operation, we must increase the expenditure of Norwegian forces abroad by nearly NOK 1.3 billion. We will highlight the importance of ensuring the safety of personnel in such operations. The experience gained in Kosovo will enable us to better estimate the costs of continuing participation or of new, similar operations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e817	There is a broad political consensus that Norway must participate in peace operations in the Balkans. In the current year, our biggest contribution is linked to the NATO-led international peace force in Kosovo, KFOR. Norway provides an enhanced mechanised infantile number of more than 1,200 staff. Compared to the Norwegian population, this is a very solid contribution compared to most, not to say all, other countries. On 13 April this year the Stortinget debated the involvement of the defence in international operations. The main arguments for Norway’s participation in such operations were identified. I'm not going to repeat the arguments here and now, but be careful to refer to my article in that big debate. The costs of our participation in international operations are very significant. The size has taken the view that the appropriations for such operations should be made outside the defence framework. The annual costs normally run up to about NOK 1.5-2 billion. Financially, this is a major challenge. On a proposal from the Government of Bondevik, last year the Stortinget adopted an allocation for international operations in the 2000 budget of 860 million. kr which was intended to cover the expenditure for about the first half of the year. The proposal was based on estimates prepared by the Defence. The uncertainty about the extent of our involvement in the second half of the year was the main reason why no appropriations were originally proposed for more than the first half of the year. However, an amount corresponding to the expected allocation needs for the second half of the year was assigned to the Miscellaneous item. Now it turns out that in order to continue our current involvement in the Balkans out of the year, there will be a need for an additional allocation of nearly NOK 1.3 billion. There is much more to be expected than that when the 2000 budget was drawn up in the autumn of 1999. As a result, the total cost of our participation in international operations in 2000 runs to a total of 2 149 million. SEK, of which 1786 million. SEK applies to KFOR. Of the amount of KFOR, 440 million is used. SEK for training in Norway, SEK 290 million. DKK for acquisitions and the rest, SEK 1,056 million. kr, for operation in the operating area. The proposal provides a short, almost punctuated explanation of the increased costs. It is difficult to assess the durability of the given explanation. However, it must be allowed to express some surprise that it has been possible to underestimate the costs of the KFOR exposure to a large extent. Well, the KFOR operation has a sharper impact than previous operations, for example: SFOR, but some more accurate estimates should have been possible at an earlier stage. It is important that the Storting should be presented with as safe a cost as possible when it is invited to take important decisions, whether in the case of large investments or, as in this case, participation in peace operations. The central party believes that we must stand by the commitments Norway has made regarding participation in KFOR operations. We therefore support the proposal for an additional allocation of 1,289 million. kr. In the revised national budget, the Government has proposed ways of increasing expenditure, including: until KFOR, shall be covered in. Among other things, the defence framework is proposed to be reduced by 500 million. kr. I don't want to pre-shoot the central party's position regarding containment. We will have to come back to that when the revised national budget is to be dealt with later in ours. In recent days, the question of a new Norwegian involvement in Lebanon has been launched. Minister of Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland shall have taken the initiative to do so during the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in Florence last week. He must have gone a long way in promising Norwegian participation in a strengthening of UNIFIL. If this were to be promoted as a concrete proposal to Stortinget, we would get back to the matter. But as my immediate and preliminary reaction, I would say that it's not realistic to base an increase in the appropriations for international operations on the well $2.1 billion we spend this year. It will also be very problematic to provide the necessary qualified personnel. In addition, Norway should be said to have taken part in its tasks in Lebanon, where we had a continuous presence for more than 20 years until November 1998. About 25 000 Nordics have participated in the UNIFIL forces over the years. Now other countries should be able to take their tower in Lebanon. I agree that there may be a need for an enhanced UN effort in Lebanon after the Israelis recently withdrew after 22 years of occupation. Norway should now concentrate its participation in international operations primarily in the Balkans and ensure that we make the best possible effort there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e840	Let me first make a comment on what Restad of the Central Party was at, finally, this with Lebanon. It is clear that Norway has played such a central role in the Oslo process that it would seem very strange if Norway were not involved with contributions there as well. That's the signal from SV when this is the case. We also know that it can quickly blow up again. I think it's urgent to get strengths in the area, with Norwegian participation, so that we don't get a new flare. So to this thing right here. When you pull out on an adventure, you have to assume that there are some bills, and of the new NATO concept that you tried in the Balkans last year, it's clear that there's going to be aftereffects, which you have to agree to clean up. This kind of responsibility must be shared, and that responsibility also takes us into the SV. But at the same time, one should be aware that this bombing operation, with which a victory was crowned, has created a bridge with new problems, and so this action had no UN mandate when it was seen working. This means that there is a lot of objection, but of course we have to pay the bill that you now receive. In fact, that bill is likely to be reasonably large for a very long time if it's going to be possible to create peace down there. We should also look at the humanitarian aspects within Yugoslavia itself, where the infrastructure is destroyed, and where the boycott primarily affects the civilian population. The new NATO concept has also helped to increase the problem through the bombing that was being carried out. So here's a lot of tasks that make it necessary for me to say that the next time the new NATO concept is going to be tested, one should think more about it than what one did this time. In my opinion, there is no saying one has seen. What one has seen is that what one has to do in advance is what is important, so that the Storting has to be prepared to use several means of prevention in such areas to avoid having to go to such actions as one has had in Kosovo. My challenge to the Minister of Defence is to bring up a discussion, a sort of evaluation, of the conflict that one had and that led to the bombing operation. Is an assessment of this added by the Government? Is there going to be a more fundamental debate on this new NATO concept, which really means that the new NATO can operate without a UN mandate? Will there be a debate in Stortingen on this? SV supports setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e851	St. pp. No 44 concerns the financing and participation of Norwegian military personnel in the Balkans. The size of the budget was aware that the draft budget would not cover international operations for more than the first half of the year and that actual expenditure would be reflected in the revised national budget. The figures that are now coming up show that the Bondevik government had strongly sub-budgeted. There is now a need for a further allocation of almost NOK 1.3 billion. So large additional appropriations require someone to carry out a review, so that this does not repeat itself. As far as SFOR is concerned, I agree that it is difficult to organise two organisations, and that it is better to focus on KFOR. That the government is proposing to drop SFOR from the quota change on 15 August, I therefore agree. So these are the dry numbers, set up in a proper accounting way, that characterize both the proposition and the setting in this case. But behind the dry numbers and the large sums – 1,289 million. kr – there is a bloody decade in the Balkans. For the time being, it is impossible to determine the number of deaths and displacements. Thousands of people are still missing. Old limits have been lifted, new limits have been reached. Incredible abuses against individuals and groups have, as you know, been carried out. The Swedish UN officer Bo Pellnæs, who was the Chief Military Observer in Bosnia-Herzegovina in the mid-1990s, writes in his book «Infinite» about the Croatian attack in the Meduli pocket in September 1993: «During the day, the Croats handed over 50 corpses to the Serbs through our dissemination. The UN then found a tenths equal. Of the bodies that were completely handed over to the Serbs, many were malted and burned. A couple of older women were shot through the back of their heads on short terms. It was also found that all the houses in the area were blasted and burned, and all the domestic animals were slaughtered." Any realistic analysis suggests that unfortunately we do not see the end of the conflict in the Balkans in the near future. And it is now – after agreements are more or less voluntary and after military intervention imposed on the parties – that the heavy road to new social development and implementation of the peace agreement is to be implemented. Here in Norway, we have taken an ethnic-moral value choice in addition to the rational defence and foreign policy road choices, and with a high degree of political consensus here in this Chamber, we have contributed significant military forces in the Balkans over the last ten years. Of course, our contributions have cost, and they will have to cost in the time to come. Today's setting is a signal about this. One important prerequisite is that women and men who, on our behalf, make such an unusually good effort in the Balkans have the best equipment and sufficient training and practice before being put into their truly peace-building mission. The Defence Committee inspected the exercise ‘Kosovo’ prior to the introduction of NORBN II in March of this year and was very impressed with the thoroughness and seriousness of the training. At the same time, we know that without such realism in education, we will not be able to solve difficult tasks in the deployment area. The former head of defence, General Arne Solli, pointed out so correctly in a chronicle in the newspaper Dagbladet on 27 November 1998: ‘The credibility of defence is not created in classrooms.’ Actually, I would have thought that the contribution as a whole could have been a tribute to the women and men who, on our behalf, represent our country in such an excellent way, and that by granting the sums that have proved necessary to maintain our forces in the Balkans, we could have focused this debate both on how, with a coordinated effort by military and civil units, we could have strengthened the future building of society in the Balkans, and on how best to take care of those who return after foreign service and have suffered physical and mental suffering. As is well known, there is a proposal to cover parts of the additional costs of operating foreign operations that we are likely to adopt later today by reducing the investment chapter of the Defence Agency by 500 million. kr. As rapporteur for the investment chapter, I would like to be honest and honest to say that I find this somewhat problematic, both because such a large proportion of the investment budget is tied to legally binding contracts during the financial year, and because this therefore violates the principles adopted by the Stortinget. For me, this is not at all an unproblematic situation, but we will see what happens to the treatment of St.prp. No 61 for 1999-2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e875	The NATO-led international military force in Kosovo now has military control over the situation, but there is still a great deal of work to be done before it can be said that peace and reconciliation have been created in Kosovo. The aim is to establish a democratic and multi-ethnic society, and unfortunately it may seem to be a long way into the future. But it's an overall goal to create peace and reconciliation, and I wanted to focus a little bit on it. At the solemn opening of the Storting, the King in his speech highlighted this need very strongly, and I noticed that the President actually had it as the only theme in his speech at the opening of this big year. Then, of course, it's a cross of thought that we spend so little money on creating peace and reconciliation and so much money for military purposes. I must also say, like the representative of Langeland, that I feel that we are spending too little money on preventive activity. That's how far I agree with him. I also think there may be a need to have a discussion and evaluation of the conflict, and a more fundamental debate on how NATO will operate in such conflicts. But I noticed that the representative of Langeland was positive that we were going to participate in a new UNIFIL force. He indicated that the conflict could flare up again, and that there was an urgent need to send forces. Now this is not a line change, but I still have to ask SV: Is SV planning to increase the defence budget now? Have such thoughts been made? I must be allowed to comment on the Langeland statement that when you go out on adventure, and try out a new defence concept, there will be great repercussions. He indicated that there were serious adverse effects after the NATO-led operations in Kosovo. I think it is rather bad that the representative of Langeland wants to continue the debate on the bombing in Kosovo. It appears that the representative of Langeland has completely forgotten that Milosevic is responsible for the eradication of nearly 200,000 Muslims, mainly in Bosnia. On one occasion in Sarajevo, thousands of Muslims were chased into a football stadium. More than 1,000 of these were children, and all of them were killed. The problem was that you sat too long and looked at it without being able to do anything. So I think we should now be saved for a discussion if it was right to intervene. At least a stable situation has now been created, and Norway has contributed significantly to it. Then I think we need to put the debate behind us on whether it was a reasonable operation in which Norway participated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e887	There will always be a need to evaluate and get back to what you've done. In my time as a member of the Defence Committee, a follow-up discussion was held after the introduction of the then Minister of Defence Løwer on experiences and so-called ‘lessons learning’, what we have learned in Kosovo. It goes without saying that the Storting in connection with both foreign and defence policy statements and themes must come back to it broadly, continuously. I also agree with Mr Rise that we must always look at the balance between preventive work and current military operations. Without a doubt, using resources to prevent conflicts, even though much money goes into it — Norway spends more than many other countries — is cheaper than getting involved in war and conflict if necessary. I believe that all the NATO countries and all the UN Member States think the same way here, but it does not relieve us of the responsibility to intervene militarily when necessary, and it was the opinion of the Stortinge in the Kosovo case, as we know. The current issue is therefore the slight shock that I was presented shortly after accession as Minister of Defence, that there was an additional need of a total of SEK 2.1 billion for international operations this year, against budgeted around SEK 860 million. kr. It is true that it was probably taken into account that you had to come back to the second half of the year, but even if you took this into account, the amount was incomprehensible in relation to what I expect from both the accumulation and, for that matter, the government had expected. Of course, I am serious about this type of underestimation of expenditure in such a magnitude, and I have asked for a full review of the matter with a view to preventing repetition. It's true, as the representative Width had in mind, that it's the Department and the Council of State, not to mention the Council of State – it's two in this case, or maybe just one – that's responsible, but it's too easy to say that here lies the solution in the Departments alone. It is the external offices of any department that sit and add up bills – not the departments – and find out that the sum is too large in relation to what you had in mind, and then you make an attack. You should've been in a state of shock before, including from underlying agencies. But we are now going through the situation in cooperation with the Defence Command to improve the procedures and to get perfectly clear responsibilities in terms of budgeting and following up matters of this nature. Some words about the impression from preliminary reports about this. The increase in budget requirements is not due to new cost elements that were unknown at the time of planning, as I have been informed. The increase was due to the omission of significant factors and elements from budgeting, both in May and in September last year. This occurred because factors such as mission, requirements and assumptions were not linked to the impact it would have directly on resource needs. Due to the lack of routines and the pressure to keep short deadlines, this deficiency had to pass unnoticed through the Defence Agency’s organisation to the Ministry of Defence. The shortcomings of the decision-making basis were essentially due to the following factors – I take them briefly and in detail: pay conditions, both during training and in the area of operation, unforeseeable need for infrastructure in the area of operation and the establishment of clay facilities, etc. material consequences of a longer period of training, from one month as before, to the three-month assumptions that acquisitions budgeted for 1999 would meet the total need and not only the equipment necessary for the decommissioning assumption that the main weight of material in SFOR would satisfy the need for KFOR omission of material needs in the context of training underestimating the financial consequences of the requirements of the safety of personnel All of this should have been known a little bit more about and taken more of its consequences at an earlier time, but these are the factors mentioned in the preliminary reports. The following actions will be launched to prevent similar under-budgeting in the future: First, the establishment of procedures to ensure consistency between mission and economy from day 1. Secondly, for the budgeting of international peace operations, the priority of adequate personnel and capacity at the Armed Forces organisational level. Thirdly, the development of appropriate budgetary and follow-up systems. We must certainly add that being a colonel and a major in the field and being responsible for the operational requirements that are imposed there and there, does not always correspond to an accountant's needs, rather than the minister's needs for order in the accounts and in the budgets. But this context needs to be created, and that responsibility lies with the Defence Command and the underlying agencies, and there is a responsibility on the Department and myself to ensure that those systems come in order from day one, so that we avoid similar situations in the future. With regard to the elements mentioned in relation to Lebanon and UNIFIL, I will not extend the debate without pointing out that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will come back to those questions in an appropriate form. It is beyond doubt, I believe, that all countries in the world feel a responsibility for the situation we have in the Middle East in general and in relation to the Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon. If there is an acceptable mandate from the United Nations and a military approach to what the UN forces can constructively contribute to the region, we need to see what Norway might have in order to contribute. But it goes without saying that it's going to be at a modest level in relation to the large exposures we have in Kosovo, and partly also some smaller exposures elsewhere. And – it goes without saying – it is not appropriate to finance such possible efforts in the framework of existing operations, existing budgets. There is something that needs to be further financed, and in that case, the Storting will have a rich opportunity to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e942	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e945	There was a two-and-a-half-minute post from the representative Rise that made it necessary for me to provide further information on this matter. With regard to Lebanon and the fact that it is important for Norway to contribute to the peace process in Lebanon, as one was involved in the Oslo process, the representative is asking the question of whether we want to increase the defence budget. It is a question that I very much appreciate in relation to the day we stand before today, because it falls into its own logic. If the representative Rise does what is only reasonable later today, he will have 400-600 million. kr in the year, in fact SEK 1.2 billion a year for 30 years, as one can use for precautionary purposes and other elements of which he was also concerned in his post. I perceive this as a signal that the Christian People's Party has now taken to heart in frigate cases and would like more resources to use, among other things. to UN forces. That's interesting. In relation to the new NATO and the new NATO concept, the Minister of Defence did not respond directly to the question of whether a debate on it would be held. But what's my point is that one should get a ‘what made us wrong-evaluation’ in Stortinget, where we're going to discuss this matter. Then the new NATO concept will be part of the debate, because it is a bit of the premise you've been operating on. So what the Minister of Defence says, I see as positive – that it is added to it by the Government. The problem with the new NATO is that one doesn't stick to international law in the right way, and that's the main concern of my party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e956	The different aspects of this matter have now been highlighted through the posts that have been, and with a committee that stands together, it may be a little unnecessary to go further. But I would like to point out this with the significant increases in costs, which the Committee has also pointed out. This is due to the fact that the previous government had only taken account of approx. The first six months. It was also the responsibility of the Defence Committee in relation to the budget for the current year, which is also referred to in the vote. Then you can ask whether there was under-budgeting, or whether there was a lack of willingness to budget. It was quite obvious that one had to expect that commitment to continue, and it had to be as clear to the government as it was then set for the Storting, that there would be expenses here, at least in the order of magnitude as the first six months had cost. If we look at it, it's 400-500 million. kr more it got out of it. Now I want to stress that there was something else also at the entrance to the operations of KFOR, which I believe in a way helped to increase the costs as it all started. On the part of the Progress Party, and I believe from the Right too, it was at some point clearly announced to the Government that you must now prepare, because if there are operations in Kosovo, we must know what we have in place, so that if we are asked, we must know what to answer. In other words, go ahead and prepare! It could have helped keep cost developments in check in my opinion. But the government didn't. It was almost when the armed conflict stood at the door, that one began to throw itself around on the crutches. Then you had to re-dispose from SFOR, so you had to do a lot of craftsmanship to get this done. When such large quantities of material are to be provided under time pressure, when contracts are not in order, it is not so strange that there will be high costs. Then it is also remarkable that you had not been able to get it in place. That's what I call bad craftsmanship from the former government. So the whole thing pointed to this. But then, in my opinion, it is disastrous that even if the Stortinget has established a principle that extra-financing should be made for foreign operations – that is, an overall committee – a deviation from this is nevertheless made at the first crossroads. In such a context, it should at least be a clear premise that the signatories of this would have stood by it – not least the government that has resigned. That's what I think is one of the most critical things about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e967	An additional allocation of SEK 1.3 billion is quite enormous, and should be completely unnecessary. I think the Council of State had a bit of a strange wording. He talked about sitting and adding up the bills. Then it seems like there have been bills out there somewhere, you get them in and add them up, and then you get to a number that you didn't know about. These are numbers that the former government of course is responsible for, and that they should have come up with at a much earlier time. The Committee pointed out, as the chairman of the Committee just mentioned, at an early stage that this could happen. Then it seems strange that in addition to sitting and adding bills, you also point out that here are the underlying offices and departments or what to call it, which are obviously sitting on bills that you have not known about. I'm very happy that the Council of State is saying that the routines are now under assessment, and that you want to do something about it. The last one I hope will be the most important one. It seems to me that this has been partly out of control. And SEK 1.3 billion is not just to germinate off.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e974	I would like to comment on what Mr Røsjorde said here, which was quite a criticism of the former government. I would like to refer to what the representative Restad said in his statement, that there was an amount added in the Miscellaneous item, but that was not big enough, because you did not have the overview of how much the consumption would be. So when you didn't propose any more last fall, it was because you just didn't have numbers that showed how big this would be. Then I must also be allowed to repeat to the representative of Langeland: he had a very good opportunity to comment on his support for the views of the Milosevic regime, which is largely a group of war criminals; it is amazing that Langeland quietly ignores his strong support for this regime. But it is worth it to the honour that at least the party SV did not agree with the representative Langeland, and joined in what was the unanimous opinion here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e981	Of course, I have a limited need to defend the previous government, and it is raised beyond doubt that it is serious when the additional need is perhaps really 500-600 million. kr more than what you should have expected from what was in an extension of the mechanisms in the first six months. I think the committee leader Røsjorde is right that it's really talking about 500-600 million. kr i plus in relation to what one had to expect at an earlier date. And it's critical. I refer to what I said in my post. Of course, it's not like there's a lack of ability to add bills that are the problem. We knew, from the preliminary reports I received from the Defence Command, what elements were to be included in the operation, but they were not compared to the budget figures themselves and the basis of the points I made. And it's a pretty serious mistake with regard to real budgeting. But even though one might consider that one could not, for mysterious reasons, one should have begun earlier to add up bills and give notice to the ministry, or the department should have been responsible for checking this out earlier – as one sees it – and then at an earlier stage to notify the Storting about the incident. I think it has proved to be necessary for all these investments. It has not been possible to identify substantially any of the 2.1 billion in total for which there was no need to invest. But, as I have said, this sort of thing must also be budgeted for so that flooding and the ministry should have real governance over development. It is important for me to be told, and that is what we are now discussing with the Defence Command, so that we can ensure the procedures in a better way, not only in relation to the Storting, but also in relation to the Government and the Government's own work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e988	I think this has been a good debate and, of course, what is important here is the experience we can draw for the future. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has taken action as effectively as he seems to have done, so that we can avoid making such mistakes again. What I want to spend some time with is something we've been a little bit involved in -- where I think we really have something to learn in the future -- and it's true that when the air operations started, everyone was fully aware that a ground operation had to come after, either a sharp or a peacekeeping, everyone was aware of it. Still, there was an atmosphere around it all where there was kind of a taboo planning for a ground operation, it was kind of something that wasn't nice. And so the defense got so busy that one had to resort to hasty things, like, for example. Røss soils were inside. We must learn from that in the future, we must not interfere with such taboos in such situations, we must be sober and realistic and do what is necessary on the ground. But then I want to add when we now discuss the Balkans: we were sharp in the Balkans, and we should be proud and happy about that. But so does it. It is not that we can have completely different laws for King Solomon and Jørgen hatemakers. We have other conflicts not very far away where the massacre of civilians has been much worse than in Kosovo, for example. in Chechnya. And it doesn't have to be that the Russians, because they're big and powerful, can do exactly what they want, while the little tyrannicals like Slobodan Milosevic can be very amusing to us. I don't say we should use the same tool everywhere, but at least we have to do something that can be effective to limit the conflict where it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e997	I'll give honor to the Council of State for the way he explained to all these underlying factors that helped bring the bill up, and possible explanations of this. I think that's commendable. So the naked fact remains that there was too much speed in what you were doing, which obviously contributed to the acceleration of costs. And it gets the political environment to take inwards and then try to avoid this for the future, and this is something we've been talking about. So in every operation, you've stumbled something in your legs because you either haven't had a contract clear or nothing else. This has been done independently of government responsibility. So we still have a lot to learn. The fact that you have to go and order equipment and, almost from day to day, get suppliers of heavy materials, makes it very easy for the seller to set the price, it brings costs up. So everything else has been explained by the Council of State. What worries me the most, and which I also said in my previous post, is that through the revised national budget presented, we are breaking the principle of the Stortninget just fixed, by taking 500 million. kr for foreign operations. Now I understand that the outgoing government had taken into account the costs in the second half of the year, and perhaps more than that, under the Miscellaneous item, so that the Miscellaneous item was obviously there as a buffer for what you had to know. I then interpret it there that it is also natural to expect the government parties from the outgoing government to look into the Miscellaneous Post that they had, and now set up and spend the 500 million. NOK in the right place through the treatment we will have later. It would have been very interesting to confirm that representatives of the demarcated government parties could now say: yes, we are committed to our principles. We don't wave around. We stand firm, we have our backbone for it. We even had a variety of e-mails where we had taken this into account. Maybe there were some millions missing, but the Miscellaneous post tends to be quite over. I now challenge the above-mentioned parties to tell whether they stand firm on their principles, and whether their miscellaneous mail is still the gear in order to be able to take the costs that you probably must have foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1008	The representative of Langeland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1012	First to Ingvald Godal: I found his points relative to Chechnya to illustrate how important it is to have a debate about new NATO and our role in relation to the new NATO concept. Chechnya is a place, now we have Ethiopia and Eritrea, and we have East Timor. The issue is so big that we have to be clear about this, and it also believes that SV is important in relation to international law. So to the representative Rise, who once again forces me to the confessional in relation to Milosevic: Milosevic is certainly a villain. He has been a villain, and he has clearly done false things. The problem is that the whole strategy of taking him has led to the setting up of civil and children in the first place. The same is true of Saddam Hussein – 500,000-600 000 children have died in Iraq from the blockade that one has. That's my point in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1019	State Council Godal has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1022	What Minister of Finance Restad had in the Miscellaneous post, nobody knows – at least I don't. One thing is certain: he no longer has the Miscellaneous Post, it is the Finance Minister Schjøtt-Pedersen who has, and there is not 500 million. kr for this purpose. The second thing I'd like to say is that it's too bad time and too bad planning. I think we're going to admit that all the medium-sized and small NATO countries came into the backyard. Of course, some of that had been won by planning earlier, but I have to show that it took quite a while before NATO at political level decided for exactly what you needed. So it wasn't that easy for the NATO countries to advance it. They had a shorter planning horizon than they wanted, and it was only the big ones — in practice, the United States and a couple more — who managed this as quickly as they needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1029	The various-post tends to be dry, was a claim from Røss soil. I think that might be experienced in another way by any finance minister. They usually have the impression that the various items could be larger, when trying to cover the costs that are incurred over the year. As I said in my post, there were funds in the Miscellaneous item that would cover what could normally be expected of expenditure on international operations in the second half of the year. But the post office was not dimensioned for the extra costs that we have now seen, that's the amount of 500-600 million. kr. I will not protest that it may be in that magnitude, but it has come as a surprise both to me and obviously more. In addition to the fact that it is correct that I no longer have any miscellaneous mail, as the Minister of Defense pointed out, I am also aware that a salary settlement has been made, and you are probably also in the process of getting a retirement stop that will make deeper cuts in the Ymse post than you originally had done last autumn. So I don't think there's any bold prediction to say that there's little left in the Miscellaneous post when what's going to be covered from there is covered. In the case of the 500 million. I'm just repeating what I said in my previous post: we'll get back to that when we're going to deal with the revised national budget later in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1040	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 3373]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1065	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1076	The setting that we are currently handling is initially an option that follows up the previous bulk treatment of the project new frigates. The aim of the proposition is to obtain the consent of the Storting to an increase in the project's framework for the contracting of five new frigates to the Defence. In addition, uncertainties related to this material project are also addressed, and that is what the committee is responding to today through the vote. As indicated in the submission, there is a significant majority in the Committee, all except the Centre Party, who are set to follow up the invitation from the Government to increase the cost framework of the frigate project. The centre batch has then found another loop, which is clearly shown by the setting, and the loop is in many ways in line with the Document No. The 8 proposal that SV has promoted, and the conclusion is essentially the same. SV will probably not have frigates at all, but there is probably something we will hear more about later. SV’s budgets seem very difficult to find space for that type of vessel – something smaller and more modest is perhaps more in style. As can be seen, the minority's position is that the acquisition of frigates will be postponed until the long-term prospects for defence and a new defence structure have been explored. What the government has asked for is to update for the main project an estimate that will then be raised from 12,240 billion to 14,066 billion kroner, and that is the majority of the committee. Before I go further in terms of the position itself, I find it necessary to go a little bit into the history, because, as many have now written about, this is the largest single-material investment the defense has ever made. It is clear that with such a large investment, there are also many opinions about the choice, about what other options could be available and about whether it is right to implement it now. To that I would like to say that it was in Innst. S. No 150 for 1992-93 – i.e. the setting of the first long-term message from the 1990s – was basically given the starting signal for the frigate project. It tells us that we have now used approx. six years from an initial signal was given until we are up in a situation where the contract can be signed. Then we have a horizon of new eight, maybe nine, years before the project is launched, and it tells more than anything how long-term you have to think about big material projects, not least a small country. Throughout this period, the number of committees has determined the importance that we, as a country with a significant maritime area, should maintain and assert sovereignty above, cannot forget this in our priorities. Similarly, we have an enormous amount of airspace that also requires monitoring, and for which we have a clear responsibility nationally. That's why it's also true that post-gap sizes have determined that two projects are in many ways structurally independent, i.e., what choices you're making now, and those choices were pointed out already in the context of the previous long-term message that I mentioned. And what is now to be decided was clear, and this has been reinforced by the latest treatment of the long-term message in the current ageing period. So anyway, we just have to say that today's frigates are 1960-year-models – and everyone knows that that's what this is all about. It has to do with certainty, it has to do with modernisation, it simply has to do with being a credible nation with interests within its maritime areas, even in relation to alliances. To let these sail beyond what we have now done is, in my opinion, to stretch the knit too far. Any gnat will usually have the consequence that you push things even further in front of you. I think it's reasonable to say that the frigate project is defined to be structurally independent. No matter what you come to, these things will have to be taken care of. It is the main weapon of the Maritime Defense Agency that it is simply about. We have conducted a competition on the basis of what the Stortinget has previously decided, and the Stortinget has even said that this project is so important that we are willing, in addition to the agreed framework, to add DKK 1 billion each year to the table for a six-year period to finance about half the cost of the project. This, of course, because you saw that if such a large project were to come in this time period, you would need to create room for other investments as well. Therefore, and because of this one project, this additional allocation was adopted. That the Ministry of Finance obviously doesn't like this is the case, but it's here in the Grand Duchy that the decisions are taken, and then we also have to expect the governments that are going to follow this up to take responsibility for continuing a budget profile that means that you don't destroy and crush what the Storting itself has promised. You have to take responsibility for that. Therefore, there is no doubt that it is right to make a decision now to buy frigates. Of course, there have been many aspects of competition. Many have claimed that what you are going to buy is vessels that will be completely out of date from the time they are operational. But one of the premises has just been that at least one should not take high technological risks through the acquisitions. There's something about the setting that also has an impact, that we have to follow the choices made in terms of the technological standard. Anyone with weapons systems to live 30–35 years in the future knows that there will be a need for upgrade, update and renewal in the course of the process. We must not forget that, because it will be part of life. The evolution of technology is enormous. It has been decided to enter into an international competition in which there were originally six participants. Then you peeled down until there were two groups left, Blohm+Voss and Bazán. In both of these projects, a very tight round of competition has resulted in prices which, when compared with prices in similar projects, are much lower. I think that in a comparison with e.g. The frigates that Spain builds for itself — and they are not so much different from those we want ourselves — are our price per year. device much lower. It says that something has been achieved in international competition, and that is exactly why it has been important to have competition implemented. Yes, it was so tough that even the Nor-Escort group, the Norwegian grouping with considerable financial and other support, did not have the power to deliver within this. What matters is what we get left for this. Of course, the contract contains significant repurchase arrangements for Norwegian industry. 100 pst. repurchase has been made. In addition, it is also a prerequisite for the contract to have agreements on the purchase of NASAMS, air defence missile systems, and Penguin, and that there are opportunities for the sale of new maritime missiles. All of this is in addition to what is to be collected in the work of Norwegian enterprises within the framework given. The fact that you have a principal manager, Bazán, has been involved in making this much easier to negotiate, and the risk and delivery requirement is therefore on a single company. It has been claimed that you have not had a competition that has been completely fair. I would like to stress that both of the two who have now fought to get the assignment have provided good solutions. The price level is almost the same, it varies slightly depending on how you view it and calculate it. But we have made a choice based on the maritime defense's own priorities, and I think we need to rely on the technological assessments made by the Defense within the framework set by the Stortinget as security. Security is exactly what this is all about right now. The project implementation, i.e. the remuneration of those who have been in the project and are going through the project has thus been included in the framework of the entire project. In addition, from 431 million have been updated. NOK 519 million. kr. It's kind of about increasing the framework. However, if you choose to add a race with this as a template, you also have to – as the committee has asked for an evaluation – put this into other projects, so that you can count on the project fairly properly. Obviously, this has helped to inflate NOK 0.5 billion. If you had paid the salaries straight out within the overall framework, it would have had a different side. But the costs are the same. In terms of currency uncertainty, it is in the nature of the matter that once a basket of Norwegian kroner, Euros and US dollars has been made, fluctuations are possible, and we will again see this in a long-term perspective. The dollar rate today is much higher, and if this continues, there is an increase in costs in it — but it remains to be seen. So the majority of them have completely accepted that they're taking into account a currency uncertainty of 690 million. kr. Then comes a price conversion, which will necessarily have to happen, with 617 million. kr. In addition, in the case of the project – as originally provided by the previous government – an uncertainty had been presented that had been captured in the total amount. The sum that is set aside to meet uncertainty is percent greater than I can remember to have seen in any other project. The strange thing is that despite having had a previous government that recommended this contract, some of these former government partners find it necessary to drop off from the entire arrangement. That's remarkable. In addition, the framework for dealing with uncertainties has been increased. Then it is quite incomprehensible that you think that by waiting you should be able to get something that is more reasonable. I know that someone has tried to sell in projects that are said to have been cheaper. It has been answered by the Council of State, and the answer is exactly the same as the Minister of Defence of the last government gave, the assessments were the same. In other words, realistic projects are within the scope of the two bids. It is strange that the centre party has now chosen SV's way, but it should not surprise you that much. Furthermore, the challenge will be to keep a long-term eye: first, to ensure that the technological freeze is there, so that the uncertainty of the main features is linked to the first vessel. Starting to change systems now, this will lead to a risk of price increases. That is why there is also a strict warning in this regard. In addition, the Committee said: ‘Like the Ministry, the Committee assumes that legally binding agreements relating to the two above-mentioned projects’ – NASAMS of Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace and that Bazán itself has declared its willingness to advance the Spanish acquisition of the Penguin marine target rocket – ‘before the final contract is concluded with Bazán’. It is in the contract system itself and in the guarantee system so clear assurances from the Government that as case rapporteur I have no difficulty in following this up. What should also be emphasised is that this project will receive a supplement because it belongs to an operational frigate and includes helicopters and sea target missiles. That's also referred to in the proposition. This must be worked out in such a way that you can also secure it by post, and not least to ensure that you get it in parallel with the frigates. For it would be reasonably pointless to have the vessels finished without parts of the weapon systems being in place at the same time. It also requires an exercise in the future. Finally, it is important to add systems that guarantee quality in line with what both HolteProject and Veritas have said, and within the amounts currently available, the likelihood of this being implemented is good, 85 pst. according to HolteProject. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1126	The committee leader now said in his post that it is strange that the centre party has chosen SV's way. Then I would like to stress that the Centre Party has made its own independent assessment, completely independent of and without contact with SV, of course. So it seems to me that the representative Røsjorde seems to have, if at all, some counter-conceptions about running through the large investment projects that the Stortinget has previously decided. This applies in this case to the largest single investment ever faced by the Defence, i.e. the frigate project. That the project, which was originally costing about NOK 15 billion, is now about NOK 2 billion more expensive, doesn't seem to make any impression on the committee leader. Nor is there any prospect of an increase in operating costs of approximately 460 million. kr per. years seem problematic for Røss soils, although even before the frigate project there is already a need for cutbacks in defence operating costs of 2, perhaps DKK 3, billion in order to achieve the necessary balance between operation and investment. The defence is in the near future facing a major need for transformations in order to adapt it to both new threats, technological developments and, in particular, the economic frameworks that can be made available. It will be such a demanding operation that more than the Center Party should feel the need for time out – a pause of thought – before giving green light to the frigate project. First, the long-term notification of the defence should be dealt with – it should happen next spring in Stortinget – where the future defence structure should be defined, and then what projects will be available and in what order they should be taken. But this is not what the committee leader wants. I therefore have to ask Røss soil questions whether he considers it possible with strongly increased defence frameworks in the future, and that therefore one does not need, for example. to worry about the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1135	Yes, I'm worried. But what I'm most concerned about, is the majority's ability to manage to keep a long-term profile in what they do. If we go in and we look at e.g. The change in defence structure, which occurred after the Willoch Commission, will be seen as proposing a new structure, and clarifying what price tag this had. So that's what the Storting agrees with. And in the financial year following the financial year, the objective that was so agreed on is not met. The same thing happened with the treatment of the long-term message now the last time. It also set a target for investment and operation, and what was achieved? Well, you said you were going to go for zero growth for two years and then plus 0.5 plus 05, which was much lower than what it was originally added to. But what happens next? Well, then the departed government deviates from this, and then the sitting government deviates from this. In other words, it becomes completely impossible to plan. That's why I'm much more concerned about it, and if I were to take all this inward, the safest thing would not have been to order as much as a single bullet. At least that kind of problem would have been avoided. But that's not the point. We want a credible defense. We have been willing on the part of the Progress Party to take account of and follow up the objectives that have been adopted. But, sir. Restad may of course be concerned because he has repeatedly contributed to reducing the defence budgets, and he has almost announced that 500 million. The investment budget cannot be tolerated because it was not possible to measure correctly in advance. And then what is the future? I'm not sure. I am uncertain about the ability and will to do what is said in practice from the Senter Party and from their former government colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1142	The centre party jumped off and landed on SV's view, said Røsjorde, and in the conclusion is to the extent that it is right. My perception is that it's important to jump off before things go wrong. That's simply the consequence of what's now happening. Fatima, the Rikshospitalet and the Gardermoen become small things in relation to the cause that Røssjorde can now prepare to be called to the audience. That's what's going to happen to this case, and I actually believe that Røss soil is fully aware of. It is therefore surprising that one does not follow up on the basics of SV's thinking. It's not that a man should have a rowboat and nod instead of frigates, but that one should first discuss what kind of defense concept one should have, and the hunter has a not set down three selections to figure this out! Nevertheless, Røssjorde will use all these billions and thus bind up the operation to the Defense for 30 years to come – an old-fashioned defence concept is the Røssord represented by the way he now approaches. The only logical thing is to wait for the conclusion of the three selections that have been put down, that knows Red Earth, and he has to defend why he doesn't. My claim is that what the plural is now going to do isn't going to be structurally independent, but structurally controlling for the defence concept you're getting, because one has a difficult expenditure post that one has to put up with the Defense after. And then the question is what kind of defense will you get with some big frigates that can be shot down by five missiles. This is old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1151	I think as far as it's all right to be a little old-fashioned. It's probably in the style of the Progress Party sometimes. But there's a difference between being old-fashioned and being sideways, and here I mean there's a difference. I don't want to give any characteristics, but it's now such that the basis for acquiring, or repurchasing, I guess I say, the most important weapon of maritime defence has been laid for a long time. As I have said repeatedly, and as the Storting has also said repeatedly: this is independent of structure. It would look strange if we didn't have the ability to, for example. providing support to the Coast Guard in given situations. It would be strange if we, as a nation as linked to the sea as we are, with as much resources as we should guard over, with our responsibility for cooperation in NATO, should not stick to what has been defined as basic. Not even the Chief of Defense has opposed this. The Chief of Defense has, on the contrary, agreed, and he should probably know what he is doing, as opposed to perhaps some of us politicians. It's true that it's going to cost more to operate the new frigates, that's absolutely right. But, as I said, if you don't buy frigates, the Central Party and the outgoing government, along with the Advance Party, have said that we have to wait with MTBs. They must have the same missiles as some of the weapons systems on the frigates. So you can't do what someone's been walking around thinking that it's possible to buy corvettes, as the Swedes have done, because it's getting cheaper, there's fewer people, everything's getting cheaper. There are questions about the duties of these vessels and a frigate is a very complicated weapon system. If you had the clear understanding that everything went down after the first missiles, probably no country would have acquired frigates, which they still do in the United States, in the Netherlands, in Belgium, in Germany and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1162	The representative Røsjorde pointed out in his reply to my first line that the assumptions for the defence appropriations have not been followed up. In that case, it is a responsibility that different governments and the bulk of the population have to share. It confirms what I'm thinking about, that it's not realistic to expect an increase in the defence framework in the future. Other tasks are prioritised in front, for example: health, care, education, research, etc. I'm pretty sure that's going to happen in the future, not to talk about the heavily increased expenditures on popular security that we also need to find a place within the total budgets. I understand that Røss soils believe that there should be an increase in the defence framework. I don't think that will happen. Then I would like to ask: if, after the adoption of the future defence structure next spring, a certain amount of investment is made available, he is nevertheless sure that frigates are first a proper priority, because the Storting has decided a lot of other investments too – fighter aircraft, MTBs, transport aircraft, armoured vehicles, etc.? Is Røssjorde absolutely sure that the frigates must come first from the investments that needed to be made? And if he is, is he absolutely sure that the agreement negotiated with Bazán is the best? Could there have been others who could have delivered an equally good frigate project? Is he, for example? ensure that the weapon systems, including the radar choice, are correct in 10-15 years? These are questions that I would like the Røss soil to stay a little bit in the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1169	It is well possible that there will not be a majority to increase the defence budgets, but it has been a majority to grant NOK 6 billion just to the frigate project, as I said at the outset, in order to give a sufficient boost to get this in place. What I have underlined is that as a nation, we have an independent responsibility to assert our own sovereignty in an area that is one of the most resource-rich in the world. Of course, if you're willing to ignore it, you can do a whole lot of other things. Then you can sit on land and wait. I thought that someone might have learned a little bit from the story of how to keep their country out of conflict, namely by having a proper defense. And if you don't want to give money to this, it's not going well. So the question is, are the choices we're making now, right? What has been the starting point of the majority has been to choose a technology that has been tested and that is safe. So you didn't want to go into anything futuristic. There are several projects, cooperation within Europe and cooperation between suppliers from the United States and Europe. The very last thing from 'Defence News' is that the big suppliers are now trying to build up the pieces they have, to look at what to do in the future. But if we're going to sit and wait for the very last thing at all times, we're not going to do anything. In the meantime, all of our ships have become nails in addition to those that are already there. I have no faith that it will be possible to get serious, proper and good project solutions on this background by going one more round. It can't be cheaper, because I understood the Center Party and Restad that just waiting, everything gets so much better. So I don't have any faith in it. And have Mr. Restad and the Central Party also do not believe that they will be able to get money for the Defense, so it will be there as in SV: one backpack in each corner of the country, and district policy lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1178	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1182	For the treatment of St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, the long-term communication, the Committee stated the following in the Innst. S. No 245 for 1997-98: ‘In the coming planning period, an investment in new frigates will be made to the Maritime Defence Agency. These are, in the Committee's view, necessary new jobs, both in order to maintain a satisfactory material standard and to improve the ability of maritime defence to carry out its tasks.' Later, Stortinget got St.prp. No 65 for 1998-99, About the investment of the defence, for consideration. In this proposition, the Ministry of Defence asked for the approval of new material projects by Storting, one of which was the frigate project. In the Committee's comments, one pointed out, inter alia: to that Stortinget through eight cases, from St.prp. No 1 for 1995-96, was kept informed about the development of the project, and in theint. S. No 140 for 1998-99, a unanimous committee agreed on the proposed approach to the financing of new frigates. The Defence Committee has been kept informed throughout this period of the tenders and the proceedings of the Ministry of Defence and not least of the various companies making the tenders. At the same time, advice has been received from several teams, not least from different parts of the defense, both for and against the purchase of new frigates. In view of this, one cannot claim that the Defence Committee has not been kept informed along the way. On the contrary, I have rarely experienced a greater degree of information flow in one case. The number of documents we've received can contain several measures of shelf life. Finally, we can say that we are ready to make a decision, if anything later than it was expected from some. I am therefore in no doubt that we have enough background to make a decision, and that the Storting and the Government have dealt with this matter seriously. We don't need frigates, claims someone. In this respect, I would like to refer to St.prp. No 65 for 1998-99, About the investments of the defence, where the use of frigates is described extensively. It says, among other things: the following: ‘Our frigates carry out central tasks both in peace and in the management of incidents and maritime crises. But the frigates are above all vessels to be used in war, primarily to deter and combat submarines in Norwegian waters. At the same time, the frigates have a certain ability to defend themselves against other ships and aircraft. Security policy developments in our neighbourhoods have been promising over the past decade. Nevertheless, developments are uncertain and there is no guarantee in the foreseeable future that military conflicts cannot spread to our areas.’ And then it's also going to be in the proposition. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘However, the supremacy of anti-submarine operations in our waters places high demands on our frigates who play the leading role in such operations. Firstly, there will still be significant submarine forces stationed in our neighbourhoods. Secondly, maritime transport lines must be capable of strengthening, supplying or shifting the main gravity of their own forces deployed in North Norway. Thirdly, we rely on allied support to deal with major crises and attacks. Since the main gravity of allied reinforcement forces must come by sea, we must have a minimum ability to secure reception areas and transport lines in Norway.’ The frigates will also complement the role of coastguard vessels in the enforcement of Norwegian sovereignty and authority, and I also remember that the frigates we now have are almost 40 years old. During the examination of this proposition, and also before, some have criticised the Government for the process of negotiating with the tenderers. Interesting in this connection is yesterday's contribution to the VG by the head of the Central Party, Odd Roger Enoksen. It is quite amazing that a member of the government of Bondevik, a government that was responsible for negotiating the agreement with Bazán, now a few months later, says the following: ‘For me, it is incomprehensible that a majority of the Storting will go to the purchase of frigates that are most likely more expensive and worse than what is otherwise available on the market.’ Let me remind Odd Roger Enoksen that at the time that the agreement was concluded, he was sitting in the government of Bondevik. He was a central figure in the government, both as a municipal minister and as the head of the Central Party. There he agreed to deal with this matter and, as I know, recommended the agreement. If there is a formal disputing in this matter in the government, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on One year could tell us. I wonder what new information Enoksen has received in the last two months so that he can say that there are cheaper and better frigates on the market. It seems that Enoch hopes that people have so bad memory that they don't remember that just a short time ago it was something called the Bondevik government, and that it was Minister of Defense Løwer who negotiated the agreement with Bazán. When former Minister of Defence Jørgen Kosmo went out and proposed an international bidding round on the frigates, this was a surprise. In fact, Norway was one of the first countries to launch such a bidding round. The defense received many offers, and after several rounds we were left with three, the Norwegian Nor-Escort, the German Blohm+Voss and the Spanish Bazán. An important aspect of a large project such as building frigates is the ring-effect of Norwegian industry. Therefore, the Committee has on several occasions been engaged in repurchase agreements and the possibility for Norwegian companies to participate in the construction of the frigates. The economic policy aspects of the frigate project are described in St.prp. No 65 for 1998-99. In doing so, the Committee has been concerned that the agreements currently concluded between Bazán and the Norwegian suppliers are satisfactory and that the Ministry of Defence is satisfied about this before signing the agreement with Bazán. The buy-back framework is approx. 1 000 million. kr, and there should be exciting jobs of such an amount. Not only is the marine environment affected, but information technology, communication technology and medical technology are areas that will be covered by repurchase agreements. It has been the view of the Grand Duchy all the time while, through several propositions and communications, we have been in possession of the frigate project, that repurchase is important, and that repurchase should not only benefit the defence industry in Norway, but allow Norwegian industry to build skills and develop, while such agreements can create constructive cooperation between Norwegian enterprises and foreign interests. Recently, we have learned that many enterprises, small, large and medium-sized, are now in the starting pit to start work, either as part suppliers or as a result of the repurchase. They're meeting exciting times. Finally – since I have some time left – a few words about the maintenance of the frigates: the first frigates will be delivered in a few years, and the maintenance will take place in Norway. Several yards have expressed a desire to carry out maintenance and are impatient after a decision, and they are probably also somewhat disappointed that the Committee has not mentioned this in the vote. It is the first time we have to decide that the frigates should be built, then the defence must be calmed down to assess where to maintain them and evaluate the offers they have already received from various shipyards around Norway. I am sure that the Defence will take the necessary considerations into account in this way, and I am sure that the Ministry of Defence, together with the Defence Department, will carry out as soon as possible an assessment of the location of the maintenance so that the offices to maintain can start the work if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1233	In the question of dealing frigates with Spanish Bazán, the guarantee question has been central. The reason is that the Bazán yard is running low financially, and the Norwegian state is going to spend billions of dollars in advance payments. The Bondevik government therefore insisted that Bazán should provide a State guarantee to secure the project and payments. The government had to give up. My question is: what is and what has been the ambitions of the Workers' Party in obtaining a Spanish state guarantee for, among others. the billions of dollars in advance payments facing Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1240	I have to say that it is a little strange that it is the representative Nymo, who is also a member of one of the former government parties, who asks that question, since there was a government composed of the Central Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party that negotiated the agreement, and former Minister of Defence Løwer who set the rules for guarantee. And there's no difference between the Workers' Party's attitude to the guarantee offered, and the attitude of the Bondevik government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1245	We've been able to read about various projects where a 200-million-dollar talker. kr out of the window, misinvested NOK 3.7 billion in relation to the Coast Guard, and today one is to invest in frigates. What the final sum will be, we can only speculate in, but a double is not unlikely to be relative to what is the starting point. Then it is clear that this will be a matter that this defence committee and this government will have to deal with in the future, when the review processes and the hearings begin. There are now three selections that work to figure out what kind of defense concept we're going to have. The three selections will again deliver their product to the Government, and then the Government will present its position in spring 2001. So, in a short year, we're going to decide what kind of defence structure we're going to have. My question to the representative Fossli is: why is this case always being pushed through before one has agreed on what kind of defence structure to have? Because it is wrong, as the representative says, that this is structurally independent. This is directly structured because of the large costs you receive, for example. for operation, and due to the thinking behind, with the south-north axis, the old enemy thinking. But my amazement and my main question is: why should one not wait until a person has decided which structure to have before a buyer determines what to do with that structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1254	Firstly, I think the representative Langeland is a bit of a doomsday prophet when he tracks that the frigates will eventually cost twice what you say in the Stortinget today. And the threat of investigation I get to put aside. We've also heard it from the Center Party's Odd Roger Enoxsen. So he refers to these three samples. So the Defence Committee and Stortinget have been working on the frigate case for several years, and it is a unanimous big deal, except SV, that says this is structurally dependent. The Secretary of Defense says the same thing, and the Defence for the rest says the same thing, so at least those of us who haven't been in Defense, and who haven't been defence politicians in the last 20 years, have little to do with the correctness of what the Defence and Defence Manager recommends.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1261	It does not surprise me at all that the representative from the Workers' Party could not answer my question with one sentence. The contract division office in Defense is known for doing a real job. In the frigate case, neither the maritime defence management nor the management of the Maritime Defence Supply Command liked the Agency's assessments. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance followed up the Office’s critical assessments of the guarantee issue with the Ministry of Defence. The fact that the representative of the government party is unable to give any reasonable answer to my question is one thing, but it clearly shows that the Labour Party does not take all aspects of the project seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1270	I have to say I'm just as surprised that Nymo again has the same question. With regard to the guarantee scheme, as we know from SEPI, Nymo also knows that some of these are agreements between Norway and Spain that cannot be mentioned in debates. But anyway, it's amazing that he's asking those questions, because we're putting the exact same thing into the guarantee system that former Minister of Defence Løwer negotiated, and that she and the government Bondevik supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1277	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1280	First, I would like to say that I respect the fact that the representative, Mr Restad, has come to an independent position. He is new to the committee and believes that new information has emerged after he agreed to consider the matter earlier. The Christian People's Party has come to the conclusion that we will stand on what the Bondevik government has done. We believe that no significant new information has been provided. Defence faces major challenges in terms of future conversion and structure, organisation and economic dispositions. In this context, many important investigations are now under way. During the current year, among others: The defence study 2000, the FFI defence analysis, the report of the Defence Policy Selection and the suspension of the Vulnerability Committee are available. And on the basis of these, the next long-term defence message will be presented by the Government and dealt with here in the Storting. In such a perspective, it might seem strange to go to the step of acquiring new frigates of over 14 billion dollars just before these investigations are ready. However, given Norway’s large territorial seas, there is little doubt that the frigate fleet will play a central role in defence, regardless of what else these investigations will propose and point to. The frigates will play a key role in solving Defense's tasks in war. The new frigates shall primarily ensure vital parts along the coast for the transport of national and allied forces, reinforcements and supplies. The frigates shall also be able to control submarines and will also have a certain ability to defend against other vessels and aeroplanes. In a broader context, the frigates should be able to contribute to the management of crises and incidents, not only in our own waters, but also internationally with the forces of other countries. The new frigates, when ready, will make an important contribution to NATO's evacuation forces and standing fleet forces. Ships will also be able to provide support to civil society, including assistance and management in the event of disasters and accidents that endanger human life and the environment. And I think that the representative of Langeland should notice in particular the last time, that we can also work together to take care of the environment. The day frigates of the Oslo class were acquired in their time, almost 40 years ago, with American support. Vessels are definitely matured for rapid replacement. It is therefore clear that these investments must come in any case. Now it is after a long and thorough work, not least from the previous government, a good deal with Spanish Bazán on the table. So doubting about this agreement by postponing the case for another year will weaken Norway's reputation in relation to larger acquisitions of this magnitude. The international credibility of the defence may also be adversely affected by such an outcome. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Government's proposal to go to the acquisition of five frigates, prepared for helicopter operations, as described in the proposition. The Christian People's Party will highlight in particular the importance of a satisfactory repurchase agreement in the context of acquisition. Repurchase is an important means of accessing markets that are normally very difficult to access for Norwegian industry. Proper use of repurchases will therefore provide opportunities to create long-term cooperation with foreign suppliers. Closer cooperation between such companies and Norwegian companies will, first of all, bring benefits in the form of new orders, which is important enough in itself for many communities. In addition, the type of positioning this gives many Norwegian companies in a changing and increasingly global defence industry. When Norwegian companies are now given the opportunity to be strategic suppliers of subsystems, components and other equipment for a large company such as Empresa Nacional Bazán, this is a cooperation we hope can continue beyond the contract period for the construction of the Norwegian frigates. The Christian People's Party will clarify the Committee's overall assumption that the repurchase agreement meets the Defense's 100 pst requirement. of the total purchase price. An important point of the repurchase is Bazán’s obligation to conclude agreements with small and medium-sized enterprises within a framework of 1000 million. kr. This applies in particular to areas such as maritime technology, information and communication technologies and medical technology — all areas where Norwegian research and business have much to offer. The repurchase agreement represents crucial industrial interests for Norway, and the Christian People’s Party assumes that the Government will add procedures and control mechanisms to ensure full fulfilment of the repurchase agreement as negotiated. With regard to the choice of supplier for the frigate project, I would like to refer to the proposition, where the government explains that only detailed negotiations have been conducted with the main Spanish supplier candidate. This is justified in terms of capacity. The negotiations were conducted with the candidate who submitted the best tender within the deadline. In addition to Blohm+Voss, which was the other supplier who had an offer within the deadline, there has been contact with Norwegian-British Fleischer & Co. In this context, the Christian People's Party will refer to the Committee's questions on this subject to the Council of State and the Government's replies, which are attached to the Committee's position. This reply shows that the Council of State is aware of the contact between the previous government and Fleischer. Furthermore, it is noted that the Minister of Defence himself has had correspondence with this supplier and, on the basis of this, has assessed that there was no basis for a more detailed assessment of his alternative frigate solution proposals. In addition to the question of the actual acquisition of frigates, the proposal addresses the need for a change in the financial framework for the project as well as remaining uncertainties in the project. It is important that the Government, based on the two uncertainty analyses carried out, ensures good control of the identified uncertainties and eliminates them as far as possible. I think it is important to stress that there is still uncertainty about the increase we are dealing with today, which is indicated by very precise amounts. Of course, it's unsustainable to operate with a dollar rate of 7.23, but it's also not a safe estimate on the basis of the 690 million. NOK, when you have added 8.41. There are also a number of other uncertainties. I am therefore afraid that the amount that is approved today is not the final sum of the project. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal to increase the scope of the main project from 12 240 million. NOK 14 066 million. kr. As I was in the debate during the previous case, it is a paradox that we spend so enormous amounts on the purchase of equipment from the arms industry and then disappearing small amounts on projects aimed at getting parties into conflicts together to build friendship – at least start to make enemies appreciate each other and want each other well, and to build relationships in a friendly way. I very much appreciate the fact that the Council of State underlines the importance of spending more money on peace-building activities and prevention. I'm gonna have to bring a heart attack in the end. The issue we are dealing with now is a possible preliminary price increase of almost NOK 2 billion. I wonder if it would have been just as good to get through a proposal to grant NOK 2 billion for peace-building measures for the gathering of different parties in conflicts. It would have been interesting to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1316	It may not be very nice to take a line on someone who at least in the setting shares the opinion of yourself, but after listening to the article, I am a bit in a hurry. It started with a fixed pace and looked at new projects, and then it became a sort of slippery escape. It could be interpreted to you, Mr. President. Rising enough so that you used more for un-help and less for defense, and I would like to confirm that it is correct. In that case, it would be interesting to get it fixed. Then the relationship with the government of his party was a member of a short time ago, and where – as far as I remember – the Christian People's Party had a prominent role. I refer to the strongly mentioned post on frigate purchase, which is at least signed by Odd Roger Enoksen, head of the Centerpartiet. So it says, "The whole project is under-budgeted and can become a new investment scandal." So it says a minister from a government that was the government that negotiated what we are saying today. Then I would like to ask Mr. Rise, as with life and soul – as far as I can understand – is in favour of the frigate project: what really happened in the previous government when it was approved, when one of the prominent government partners now says that ‘the whole project is under-budgeted and can become a new investment scandal’ – and that in a situation where new uncertainties have been taken into account, or wider platform for uncertainties, up to NOK 2 billion? May I ask you, sir? Rise tells me how it was possible for the outgoing government to say yes to a project that thus had a frame that was much lower, when Mr. The Enoch says what he says? I don't know if that's possible, but I think, sir. Rise has a big problem in front of him, for example. will make the opposing parties in Ethiopia and Eritrea talk nice to each other. For the time being, it doesn't seem to be quite simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1330	I think that, to the extent that the representative Røsjorde could spare himself a sense of dissatisfaction over attempts at peace-building measures and activities, I do not think that is necessary. It is a fact that we spend very little money on that type of business compared to purchases from the arms industry. I can only confirm on the representative Røsjord's first question immediately that I do not have in mind here that we are now going to spend more money on development assistance than on defence – so it can only be cancelled immediately. But I could imagine that we could spend a lot more money on peacemaking activities, not least in the light of the fact that it was the only theme of the Grand President's opening speech before this year. When you go into the budgets, it's nice to see how small a part of the money you spend on confidence-building – I'm not talking about development aid, it's a different budget, but about creating trust between parties. As for the post in the World Gang from the head of the Center Party, I haven't read it, and I'm not able to comment on it. I cannot comment on how the discussions took place in the Bondevik administration, but what we have received from documents looks solid, and we have found no reason to deviate from what the Bondevik administration has done. I think it is a little strange that the representative Røsjorde could interpret some of what I said, as a ‘gliding flight’, and I would like to know what he was aiming for. We have given full support to the course of the Bondevik government, and also to what the current government has proposed. That should be good enough for the chair of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1337	I was also a little surprised by Rise's last sentence, where he suggested that he was afraid that this was not enough. I don't go around thinking there's going to be exceedances. I take note of what this government is saying, that we're now at approximately 14 billion kroner. That is the whole point of this debate today, that we are now correcting the figures. We've got Minister of Defense Godal's numbers, which I have reason to believe are the right ones. If everyone here is going to make sure because they're afraid of what's going to happen in a future investigation, then we're a little bit out there running. It must be the frigates we're discussing, and not securing ourselves against a future investigation. I would therefore like to ask you: do you know, Mr President? Do something that we don't know when he can claim that it's going to be an exceedance?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1342	I got the feeling that the representative Halvorsen wanted to give me rice! The representative had referred to Mr Rise as Mr. Halvorsen. Rice. I don't know anything that the representative Halvorsen doesn't know, I assume. I expect that the representative Halvorsen, who has been on the Defence Committee for so long, knows considerably more than I do. But it's a fact that the dollar rate based here is 8.41, and if the representative Halvorsen looks up in today's newspaper, he'll see that the dollar rate is closer to $9, still. Then it's just to point to the simple fact that there's an embedded uncertainty here, and there's nothing else I've done. I am not going to think that this is a completely wrong amount that we are adopting today. I trust the department's assessments, but there may still be reason to say that there is uncertainty about the estimates that form the basis for the amount here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1350	The size is now in this unhappy situation because no one has the power to put on the brakes in this investment cycle until it has been too late. The credibility of the defence is not strengthened if one continues to do more than a bit of bit of bit-investment according to a plan that is agreed upon by everyone and that no one has had the money to pay – neither the current government nor the previous government has had it. This is not something that SV has been alone about saying anything about. The head of the Defence Research Institute, Nils Holme, has pointed this out innumerably publicly, over and over again. That's why it's a little strange to listen to Lars Rise now, who's more concerned about what he's saying, not to deviate from what the government of Bondevik has said and done, than from looking at the big, important realities of the matter, namely, the wisdom of putting the brakes on and getting a new concept in place, so that we can make investments in relation to the big needs. But that's at one point I might have to remind the representative Rise about what the Bondevik government did, and maybe what he himself did in some contexts, and it's one of the big investment projects that is actually very structurally dependent, namely the region field. That must be where the Army is. If now the new concept means moving the Army's operations from north to south, it will mean big, increased activity, and the field that was adopted will blow up the frames. If that means the opposite, the need for shooting areas in the East must be reduced significantly. I register that the Center Party is alone in the committee to say that you have to consider all the projects, including the field of fire. I would like to hear what kind of explanation the representative Rise has on this major reverse operation on his part in this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1357	I would like to congratulate Mr Andersen, the representative of the Hedeland, for having been able to bring the region of Eastern Europe into this frigate affair. It wasn't bad. I can assure the representative Karin Andersen that I mean exactly what I have always meant about the region of the East, in line with what the Bondevik government recommended. We stood together in the struggle to try to preserve the large natural area. But I think it seems a little artificial if you're going to draw that matter into the frigate case. At least I haven't found any reason to do that. The representative, Andersen, pointed out that credibility is now being lost because only decisions are being made in this way, contrary to a plan ‘which is agreed upon by all’, as she said. But in the case of frigates, I have not registered that someone has said that you do not want them. It has been decided to invest in frigates, nor has SV said that you do not want them. On the contrary, it is quite obvious that this is what Norway is going to do as an essential part of its defence, because we are a maritime nation with large territories at sea. Nor has the representative of Langeland said that he does not want frigates, nor has the representative of Restad said so. There is a broad consensus in this room that you want frigates. There's been some disagreement about the time, as I've perceived it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1366	President! I ask for the floor for an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1373	The President assumes that there will be an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1376	On request of the Presidency today, I have been informed that we are dealing with the matter no. 4 and 5 as a whole, and that is why I have raised the question about the region field, which is also part of case No. 5th@item: inlistbox If it is wrong, I am sorry, but the message I have received is that the Storting deals with the two matters together.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1381	That's right. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1386	Last year the size went in to provide five new frigates within an economic framework of approximately $12.2 billion. That decision is final. The proposition we are dealing with today involves certain — mainly book-keeping — adjustments to this framework. Because of the media noise around this project and because there is now a release proposal on the table, I will nevertheless first say a few words about the project itself. First, why frigates? In wartime, the main task is for frigate escorts and anti-submarine operations. Both parts are an obvious need in all circumstances for all the defence structures that Right might think about going in. We also have solid experience that it can be used for anti-uboat capacity in peacetime. Norway is responsible for the oversight of vast sea areas, which represent very large values. It's basically the Coast Guard's task, but it needs to have a proper fist in the back in special cases. It's also a task for the frigates. Norway must also provide its own alliance, including: in the form of vessels. A frigate in the standing Atlantic force of NATO, STANAVFORLANT, is a natural contribution in that context. The tasks are clear and completely independent of the adjustments to the structure that may result from the processing of the next long-term message. Postponing the case now will therefore only increase costs, even more uncertain internally in defence and much damage to Norway's example. We've cut out the flight project, if we didn't cancel this project after all the work that had been done, both from Norwegian hands and not least from the companies that have been invited to offer. Decision-making is a very harmful disease in general and especially for the defence. I might want to stay a little bit with it in the light of what has been said earlier in the debate. It's now two years since we handled the last long-term message in this house. For two years ago, about spring, we sat and discussed the defense we should have in the future, and now is a new long-term message about the corner in just under a year. There will always be a new long-term message around the corner. Because of the rapid development, we decided for two years that we would receive a long-term message every four years to adjust the price often, but if every time we postpone everything possible until the next long-term message, nothing will be done. The 14 billion that the cost now costs are a lot of money. But as with all insurance, it's important to see the premium in relation to the value of the object. The annual revenue of the treasury from the extraction of gas, oil and fish in the sonic frigates shall be NOK 150 billion per year. years. That means that the whole frigate purchase represents 10 pst. of annual revenues from this area. And this is a ride that we're going to have as a real watchdog, for 30 - 40 years to come. I thought it was right to see the case in that perspective, and in that perspective, there can be no doubt that this is a good and correct investment. When it comes to the adjustment of the cost frame, which this proposition is about, i.e. project implementation, currency and price conversion, I see no reason to make a comment beyond what is stated in the proposition and what the case-speaker said earlier. But in the light of what has been said here in the debate on increase in costs and so on, I must nevertheless stress that there is no increase in costs. It's about the project implementation costs, the salaries of those who work with the project and such, who are always going to go over the Maritime Defence operating budget, taking one in here as part of the cost framework just to make it visible. But it doesn't cost five cents more this way, it only makes a cost visible. The size has previously determined that if a project changes its cost and extent, it should return to the Size. But when it comes to currency relationships, it shouldn't, so this is something new. I see the time is up. I would just like to stress that it is the full responsibility of the Government to carry out this project, and I would like to congratulate the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1407	I assume that the Right Party and the Central Party share a common desire to facilitate the strongest possible defence adapted to the new threat picture, technological development and the economic framework available to them. But when I listen to Mr. Ingvald Godal's posts, I get the clear impression that he has a completely different assessment than me of what can realistically be used as a future defence framework. I must therefore ask: does Mr Godal agree that the defence framework can hardly be increased beyond today's approximately DKK 25 billion? If he is not, which of the priority tasks, such as health, care, education and research, will have to deal with less money, so down priority? And what about the rapidly increasing cost of popularism? And if Godal agrees that the defence framework is likely to remain the same in the future, why does he have no concern about making large investments that are imposing large, increased operating costs on the defence in a situation where, before frigate purchase, there is already a need to reduce the operational costs of the defence in order to also provide room for investment? Why not wait for the long-term defence message, which will be dealt with by Stortinget next spring, before deciding which investments to invest in and in what order it should happen. It turns out that even in the Defense there are many people who question the frigate case for a lot of different reasons. There are also prominent people in the Right who have expressed the same thoughts about the frigate matter that I have given on behalf of the Center Party. Former Prime Minister and Head of the Defence Commission, Kåre Willoch, have publicly declared that he believes that things should be taken in the right order: first deal with the long-term message, including defining the future defence structure, and then decide on current investments. Is Willoch completely wrong, or do his views still have something to do with the Right and perhaps also with the Godal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1414	So my name is Ingvald Godal, not Kåre Willoch, so I prefer to answer on my own behalf. I used most of my post to explain that we need frigates without regard to structure, so I thought that the question must be answered now. When it comes to the size of the future budget, I would say: for the first, there is clearly a great potential for rationalisation in today's peace structure. It could be a bit of a swindling district policy, and I assume that it's part of the reason why the Center Party has been hurling around in this matter. But it's necessary. We can handle it pretty much. In addition to that, I believe that there is a need for an increase in the defence budget in the time to come, and I will explain that in particular with the burden-sharing across the Atlantic. Today, it is completely skeptical, and in all the forums I am present, it is claimed that Europe must take a greater share of the responsibility for defence expenditure. It also said a group committee here in the house in the setting of St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99. How much can be said today, it is not possible to say, but that Europe must take a greater responsibility and that it has budgetary implications, I think, quite clearly. In recent years, we have fallen on the defence budget from 3 pst. to 2 pst. of gross domestic product. So we've gone down a little bit, and I don't see anything but that it has to go up a little bit, for example. to achieve a fairer burden-sharing across the Atlantic. Otherwise, I have to say that when it concerns the frigate project and its expenditure, we are fully in line with the Bondevik government's position that this project is necessary, that we have to finance it, and that we should be able to fit it within the future framework. This is just a matter of will.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1430	Ingvald Godal is going to have that I believe that if the school lacks pencils, paper and teachers, and if old people are run out of hospitals, it would still not be possible to help out, rather than the defense. So Godal is a man who really fights for his cause. But what's lost this time is that there's no plurality for the defence budget that's in Godal's head. This again means that the frigate investment that is now being made will have operational consequences for the rest of the defense, so it will necessarily weaken it. So we now have three selections to figure out what kind of defense concept we're going to have, and how we want the defense to run, so the question of Godal is the following: Well, like the defense friend he is, going in to allow money to frigates, which he knows will lead the defense in a certain direction, before he knows how many people want this defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1442	I'm pretty sure whatever these selections come with, right goes in for frigates. Right will go in for us to have a ride that can escort along our coast in crises and wars. We're content to have a trip that we can use against submarines. With the neighborhood we have, it would be completely unmistakable that we shouldn't have a chopper that can take them. We are forced to have a proper fist behind the Coast Guard when we think about, for example. oil installations, if anyone were to try sabotage etc. and target the supply of energy to Europe by attacking them. But we've heard this. No matter what these selections come up, we want to go in so that we can have one, so it's not interesting in this context what they come up with. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to do this in an efficient way. When it comes to setting this up against old etc., I thought it would be completely meaningless. It's kind of like setting up the insurance premium against something like that. The expenditure on defence is, above all, an insurance premium for peace. We know that when we have had a strong defence, as in World War I and against Sweden in 1905, we have taken care of peace. When we did as in the 1930s and let it fall, we were attacked because someone found it worth taking control of Norwegian territory. We had nothing to stop them with. It will be a relevant issue as long as we are in geography that there is interest in it. So peace is the most important thing. The defence is the most important peace organization we have, and that is why we have to work for a good defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1453	There have been attempts to ridicule the views of the Centre Party in the frigate case. They even say that we can put the Navy on land, and argue in that direction. What it's actually about and what Restad's representative is actually a postponement of the project until you have a first chance to see things in context, and that's when dealing with the long-term message. When the representative Ingvald Godal talks about decision-making and in the same breath talking about the frigates being used in monitoring our territorial waters and having to be seen in a resource context, that's right. We have actually lived with the presence of the Defence in these areas as it is today, and we have made it quite clear. And my question to the representative of Godal will then be: What lies in the postponement proposal from the Central Party – postponement to get a better decision-making basis and that we take inwards the appeals that have come from the professional military team and also from heavy environments outside – which means that in the year that is now until we receive the long-term message and see this in context, we should not continue to enjoy and benefit from the presence of defence in these areas? It is also – with all due respect – very difficult for me to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1462	I don't know what the representative Nymo actually means when he talks about having a good time. If he's talking about the Defence Peace Organisation, I have a lot of understanding that people want it around the country where they're watered to have him. I understand that, but at the same time, we are forced to operate effectively to channel the most possible of the defence permissions to the pointed end, to those who are going to do the job. It's a painful process, but it's a necessity to take. I cannot agree that we should not buy frigates because we should have an inefficient peace organization. And I have to say that I have a slight suspicion that that's what the Central Party's real motive is. We've had frigates in our marines all the way back to the 1950s-1960s. We got them, we got us from the Americans. They're now ripe for the scrapheap. The new thing today is that now we have to buy them ourselves. With our economy, we just didn't have to do it. So for a decision-repudiation. I just have to repeat what I've said. For our part, it's very clear that we need frigates, as I said before, and so there's no reason to postpone this. It'll only be more expensive. Security is increasing, and the Norwegian reputation is raging.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1473	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1476	The centre party is a defence-friendly party and therefore wants a strong, timely and effective Norwegian defence. We will act so that we can get the best possible defence out of the financial framework that can be put at the disposal of the Defence. The defence framework is currently around NOK 25 billion. The size has decided that the appropriations for the international operations of the Defence shall be excluded from the framework. The annual figure is approximately SEK 1.5 to 2 billion. For the current year, the current amount is 2 149 million. kr. In addition, the Stortinget has assumed that, in the implementation of the frigate project, an amount of DKK 1 billion outside the defence framework will be granted annually for six years. On this basis, I assume that it is not realistic to base any significant real growth in the defence appropriations in the years to come. I am then based on the insight I gained into future budgetary challenges in my 2 1⁄2 years as Minister of Finance. Many say that Norway, with its huge oil revenues and large budget surpluses, must be able to spend much more money on defence. The same argument is used by many for other important public tasks, such as police, health services, care for the elderly, education, research, etc. To that end, Norway has a very solid economy, with prospects for large budget surpluses in the coming years. Nevertheless, there are strong restrictions on how much money can be spent on public tasks. There's a lot of pressure in the economy. The resources, in particular in terms of labour, are almost fully exploited. Unemployment is low, and there is a shortage of skilled labour in many sectors. Should we fall for the temptation to spend much more money on the public sector without simultaneously absorbing purchasing power from the private sector, we are at risk of increased pressure and perhaps overheating the economy. This would enable us to achieve a stronger wage and cost growth in Norway than in our competitors. This could easily lead to a significant increase in interest rates, loss of competitiveness and, in the short term, to an increase in unemployment. It's a development I hope and believe none of us want. My assessment is that the increase in public expenditure that the growth of the economy will allow in the coming years will have to go primarily to the highest priority tasks, such as: health, care, education and research. In addition, it must be pointed out that in recent years the growth in the expenditure of the population has been dramatic and has seized a large part of the growth of the economy. In particular, the cost of health benefits, disability benefits and medicines has increased worryingly. Measures to reduce the growth of these costs have been announced, but no one knows if they will succeed. In any case, there is every reason to believe that the expenditure of the people's fear will continue to increase strongly as a result of the so-called wave of old age, which will soon be fully concentrated in the budgets. This is in short my justification that I do not see it as realistic with significantly increased defence frameworks. I also recall that many European countries are reducing their defence appropriations and making major structural changes in their defence. There is an increasing talk of the dual imbalance in defence — the imbalance between tasks and resources and the imbalance between operations and investment. Such an imbalance cannot continue. In addition, new threats and technological developments are now facing challenges other than so far. It is therefore obvious that our own defence must also be subject to major changes in the near future. We need a defence concept and structure that is adapted to the new challenges and fit into the economic framework that we can realistically count on. This will be a very demanding process. If we are to succeed in creating a lasting balance between defence tasks and resources and between operations and investments, it is important that we do not make hasty decisions. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Center Party, Stortinget can today be in the process of making such an hasty decision. This happens if there is a green light for the largest single investment ever faced by the Norwegian Defence Agency, namely the frigate project with a price tag of between 15 and 20 billion kroner. The proposition operates with a total amount of NOK 17.3 billion, but there is no guarantee that the amount cannot be even higher, as there is considerable uncertainty about several factors. In addition, the proposed frigate acquisition will result in net increased operating costs for our frigates of approximately 460 million. kr every year during the life of the frigates. The purchase of frigates may prove to be an investment and an increase in operating costs which may make it impossible to achieve an optimal defence structure, adapted to the needs of the future and available resources. That's why it's very important to take things in the right order. First, it is necessary to decide on the future concept and structure of defence, and then decide on the investment to be made and the order in which it should be done. During the coming year, very important premises for our defence concept and our future defence structure will be presented. As early as the current year, critical investigations will be carried out. This concerns the Defence Study 2000, the FFI defence analysis, the Defence Policy Selection report and the suspension of the Vulnerability Committee. In spring 2001, the Defence Long-term Communication will be presented by the Government and addressed by the Stortinget. All of this will form the basis for the decision on our future defence structure. It would therefore, in my view, be irresponsible to take final decisions on the acquisition of five new frigates already now, one year before the defence structure has been established. The same applies, of course, to other large investment projects. The new Minister of Defence has also obviously got a different sense of reality after he left the Stortinget and became the Council of State. In the Defence Committee, Bjørn Tore Godal was a driver of large investments. Now he's proposing to postpone, maybe cancel, some of the projects, like this. acquisition of MTBs. This does not do a defence minister without being seriously concerned about the future of the defence whose previous investment decisions were to be implemented as foreseen. However, the largest of the projects, the frigate acquisition, is carried forward despite an estimated additional cost of approximately NOK 2 billion compared to the original assumptions. The Minister of Defence has placed great emphasis on Norway losing its international reputation if the frigate contract is not signed at this time. Of course, I have also considered this aspect, which also affects the fighter aircraft project, which is now being proposed. But prestige and fear of losing face cannot be governing. The best possible defence for Norway must be the most important and decisive. I will willingly admit that it has not been easy for me to take the position I have taken in this matter. I sat as a member of the government that was supposed to implement Stortingen's decision on the purchase of new frigates. A contract was negotiated with Bazán, and the government found it after an overall assessment to recommend it. I put a lot of emphasis on cleanliness, and of course I want to be loyal to the decisions I've been making – not least in the Bondevik government. This also applies to the other Central Party Councils. However, when the Central Party has now come to the conclusion that we must go for a postponement of the final decision in the frigate case, it has very serious reasons. The most important are, briefly summarised: The frigate project is the largest single investment in the history of Defence, and has been estimated to cost a total of about 15 billion kroner. It's probably going to cost about NOK 2 billion more, maybe even more. The increase in operating costs of 460 million is unclear. kr per year shall be capable of being recovered without excessive adverse effects. There are doubts as to whether the frigate agreement with Bazán is the best possible. Other alternatives should be considered. Heavy professional environments question the choice of weapon systems, including the choice of radar. There are so many doubts about how safe the guarantee was given, as it was not possible to obtain a guarantee from the Spanish State. The Minister of Defence has proposed to postpone and perhaps reconsider the acquisition of new fighter aircraft and MTBs. Investments in new transport aircraft and armoured special purpose vehicles have been iced. The defence is facing enormous changes if we want a timely defence adapted to a new form of threat and technological development, and if we want to establish a lasting balance between tasks and resources and between operations and investment. The future defence structure will need to be determined by the Stortinge's treatment of the long-term message for the Defense next spring. In the meantime, important premises for this decision will be presented in the form of the Defence Study 2000, the FFI defence analysis, the Defence Policy Selection report and the suspension of the Vulnerability Committee. The economic framework that can realistically be made available to the defence could hardly increase in the future. After this, the only position I can defend with a good conscience is the following, which has been included as the proposal of the Central Party in the vote: ‘The final decision in the frigate case is deferred after the Grand Duchy’s treatment of the Long-term Report for Defence in the spring of 2001.’ I'll bring this up with the quoted proposal. And since we've been dealing with case no. 4 and 5 as a whole, let me also bring up the proposal of the Centre Party at the Innst. S. No 193 for 1999-2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1552	The representative Restad has drawn up the proposals he mentioned. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1558	The representative Restad was not so much concerned with this with repurchase agreements, which I think is very important in this project. It is in the setting: ‘The Committee assumes that repurchase agreements shall be concluded equivalent to 100 pst. of the contract value.’» It goes on to say: «The Committee refers to repurchase agreements as a prerequisite for the conclusion of a contract.» So here it's guaranteed that this will be followed up before Secretary of Defense Godal signs. And it must make an indelible impression on Restad that there are a hundred companies in this country who are going to be involved in this project? And there are essentially companies in District Norway: it's Kongsberg, Mellem & Karlsen, and – perhaps it makes a slightly stronger impression on Restad – Umoe Herrkoder in Kristiansund. But there's no guarantee that district policy makes any special impression on Restad. I'm actually very much in doubt whether the Center Party is for the launching of the building of frigates, or whether the Center Party is against the construction of frigates. If one hadn't read the conclusion, the fasit, one would have thought that the Center Party was against building frigates at all, and it surprises me quite strongly, with the basis that I perceive the Center Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1575	I think my committee colleague Gunnar Halvorsen should base what I have actually written and what I have actually said, and not try to attribute myself or the Center Party to other opinions. It's a postponement of the final decision we're going for. So, of course, once the long-term message has been processed and you see what's available, you might have to consider whether the frigates are the ones that are the most urgent and whether they are to be acquired just as they are now in the contract. I'll be able to keep that open, but there's a postponement of the Center Party has gone by – not a cancellation of the entire frigate project. So the half-way to the repurchase agreement and the assumptions that lie there. Of course, I'm very pleased with that. In the agreement that has been negotiated, perhaps the repurchase agreement is some of the best. There are probably other elements of the agreement that I am more concerned about. It is true, of course, that it is not easy for a person on his way to the municipality of residence to pass Kristiansund, to be accused of causing at least a delay in the assignment to Umoe Lögoder. I would also like to take the opportunity to mention that if it has something to say about what is in the paper today, that there are problems in getting Bazán to stand by the agreements that are currently being concluded with Umoe Lögoder, it is assumed, of course, that there is no green light for the signing of the frigate agreement until there is also satisfactory agreement with subcontractors, including Umoe Lögoder.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1586	Now Restad's wording in the answer took a little unexpected turn in terms. The entire basis for how the Stortinget has provided the green light for the negotiations has been the need to have one main supplier, which, within the framework of what is otherwise intended, will ensure that the framework is put in place with Norwegian partners. Who in detail does not necessarily have anything to do with the final result, but there is a framework for how much Norwegian it should be. I think it was a little surprising to hear that you now did it into a process where you have put up a strict framework, into a part of the debate. After all, the Committee has explicitly stated what will happen until signature and that things will be put in place. Here the Committee has expressed a certain flexibility, but also a tight framework. Within that framework, flexibility should be provided. So Restad says that the Center Party is a defence-friendly party. Yeah, at least it's been once in a while. But I no longer seem to recognize the Central Party from Johan J. Jakobsen's happy days in the Defence Committee, where one stood firm for the purpose of the Central Party in defence matters. When, over and over the last few years, the Central Party has deviated from what they themselves have said should be the objective, and put a budget for it, you can't trust the Center Party, unfortunately, in such a context. So I'm asking, sir. Standby if he thinks it's entirely right not to follow up the budgetary objectives he's set for his party. The resort also raises doubts about combat systems and radars. So now the German competitor has delivered no less than three different radar solutions during the procedure, and no matter what choice you have to make, you'll never make 100 pst. That's where you have to trust the professionals. And I have no faith that with the frameworks that are given, we get some better solution than what is now selected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1597	Røss soils ask if he can trust the Center Party. Røss soil is a defence-friendly person and also belongs to a defence-friendly party. And then I'd like to ask, can you trust those professional soldiers who have the exact same vision as the Center Party, and have expressed it? I assume that Røss grounde has not gone past that there are many people in the defense who share the view of the Centre Party in this matter. It is true that we are a defence-friendly party, but we are also a realistic party. Therefore, we must build on what can realistically be expected of future frameworks. You can't fantasize about what the framework will be like. I know, at least, as Minister of Finance for two and a half years, that there will be a very strong fight in future budgets over the allocations to very high priority areas, and also to cover the large and greatly increasing expenditures on popular security. I think we'll do the Defense a great bear service by believing that it will be possible with significantly increased frames. We therefore have to wait for the treatment of the long-term message where the structure is defined, and then we have to assess which investments that will take place there, and in what order it makes sense to make them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1604	Gudmund Restad said in his main post, and now repeated it in the last line-up, that the Center Party is a defence-friendly party. I think I must be able to see that it is a mere claim that is not likely through the post he has made today. I must also be allowed to say that I think that the head of the Defence Committee is quite generous when he gives unreserved praise to Johan J. Jakobsen, who is one of those responsible for our being 10 billion kroner in the 1990s, in accordance with the limits adopted by the Stortinget. Now Restad also says that this isn't easy for him, and that's a propitiatory move. But it's not to be so easy here in life that we're sitting here, so I would appreciate more if Gudmund Restad had put aside the role he had until recently, as Minister of Finance – where I could have fully understood in myself that you're holding the money bag – and had gone into his new role, to take care of the defence interests. With regard to the question of the frigates, Restad now strongly claims that there is a postponement he is talking about, but the whole argument bears the mark that he is strongly critical of the entire project. There is a coherent suspicion of the possibilities for frameworks, weapons systems, the supplier and even the Spanish State. So it would have been useful if Restad would elaborate on whether it really is a postponement he's talking about, or whether there's a strong resistance to entering into the contract that the government he's been a member of has negotiated. And finally, he's been occupied by former right-wing politicians in the past. In the Right, we take our positions on the basis of today's politicians, but it may be that the Center Party has been with the Trondelag crew and got advice on this strange position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1620	I understand from Hernæs’ last sentence that Willoch has expired, that the views of a former Prime Minister and, in this context, perhaps even more important, the head of the Defence Commission in due course do not mean anything. He is obviously completely indifferent to what is now common thinking in the Right. So I'd like to repeat one more time, if it helps, that the central part goes for, is a postponement. But it is true that I have some concerns about the contract that has been negotiated, and I believe that it would be useful to use the one-year period of thought that I have recommended to evaluate suppliers and other solutions to the frigate project other than those that are currently on the table, and that the majority in Stortinget in a few minutes is likely to adopt. So says Herenæs that it's just a claim that the Center Party is a defence-friendly party. There are studies that show that we have great credibility on defence issues, and that is probably not without reason. Then we are accused – and perhaps especially I, as former Minister of Finance – of contributing to the failure of the defence framework. It is simply because there have been other, higher priority tasks that have had to go ahead. Now there's no way to ask questions back, but it might have been interesting to hear what Hernæs and Right thought would have been prioritized even further down. Is it e.g. the school that's got too much? I have the impression that the Right believes that the school has already received too little. Is it the health service that's got too much? Is there too much care for the elderly, or should we have spent much less on research? As I said, it is not an opportunity to ask such questions back, but I believe that hereafter should think about where to deal with less, if the defense had more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1629	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1632	SV has for several years said that buying frigates before one knows what to do with the defense is scandalous. And I am absolutely sure that various defence ministers and members of defence committees can already begin to anticipate how they will answer the questions in the review that will come. For already today, there is a basis for a review of processes and economic calculations. And when new cost speeches and upcoming major restructurings in the Defence as a result of this gigantic investment emerge, more than SV will see that hearings in the examination of the Control and Constitutional Committee in relation to frigate cases are inevitable. It is positive that the former Minister of Finance, Restad and the Central Party, have reached the same conclusion that SV has had for a long time. For that conclusion, the only sensible one is. And after having been in a lot of debates on this matter, I feel that a lot of representatives in this room are starting to get into trouble. Then it's just to encourage them to follow the well-known mountain rule: it's no shame to turn around. The current Minister of Defence, Godal, can rule the mountains, and did not go so long ago and said that greater investment had to wait. But then he didn't take the biggest investment in that think tank, that's the investment in frigates of 12-20 billion kroner. Maybe it'll finally be $24 billion, which is a double. There is no indent in the argument, and then there is a failure in the logic. Because if you want to flip, you can't turn halfway. It's a shame our new Minister of Defence doesn't have the courage to do it all. I think he knows it would be the only right thing, but that he feels the process has gone too far. The frigates are structurally independent, the answer is SV when we determine that the investments must be postponed. They may fit into the new NATO concept and their role as world police, even if I doubt it too, but the frigates are strongly linked to anti-submarine operations and to maintain supply lines between south and north, and then we talk about a structure with a defence against a conventional attack on Norwegian territory – a structure of the old, good variety. So the frigates are not structurally independent, they are structurally controlling. And if we pull in the very high operating costs that we'll get on the frigates, it will provide strong governance for the future structure and concept of defence. Of course, the freedom of action we now need to modernise and redefine Defence will be limited by the frigates' erroneously alleged structural independence. The question is, What are the defence and security challenges? What kind of enemy image do we have? What are we supposed to defend ourselves against? We have to answer the questions before we buy something as expensive as the majority here seems to be doing today. The correct order is not what the Minister of Defense does, turning a little and thus not finding the way back to the starting point; it is going back to the starting point and plotting a new course. And then everything speaks for what also more and more professional military realizes, that this has to be postponed. In fact, we have three selections that evaluate what kind of defense we need for the future, and that's what the multiples here look away from. We have Defence Policy Selections, the Vulnerability Committee and the Professional Military Selection Defence Study 2000, which the Defence Manager is renting. They're about to conclude, in a few weeks' time, and then the multiple here decides an investment that will direct that conclusion one at a time must draw relative to what kind of defense one needs. What if these selections say no, frigates don't need us in the new defence structure of Norway? There is only one conclusion to this matter. The results of the three selections are to be expected and discussed again in the context of the 2001 long-term communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1648	I have something difficult to understand the logic of SV. The SV is against the EU. SV is against NATO, but for the sake of self-determination. How does SV feel that Norway should show its presence in the large sea area, despite all Norway has and has obtained through international agreements and obligations? There is no doubt that it is Norwegian territory. Norway is actually one third of Europe's area when it comes to the sea. I thought SV was for resource control and resource management. I strongly doubt how SV intends to manage and control these resources. I wish the representative Langeland could tell me that. Then it can't be useful to trust NATO, the EU or anything. These big fish resources, the oil deposits, Svalbard, Jan Mayen -- all of this we're going to control as an independent nation. I would like Langeland to tell me how he intends to operate resource control and management of that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1653	The representative, Halvorsen, tried to make it clear that there is an SV that has an explanation problem. But in fact, it's the Halvorsen, the Workers' Party and the Grand Prix that have that problem, because one goes to an investment in new frigates to a pile of money that will control the Norwegian Defence in a certain direction afterwards. That's the explanation problem for the Halvorsen, and one that doesn't make up your mind. Of course, we must have a presence in the Norwegian Sea. Of course we should. SV goes into each budget, also now revised, and strengthens the Coast Guard. We know it's necessary, but we don't know today until we've got the option from the three selections we're currently working on, what kind of defense concept we're going to have. There are no SVs having problems explaining themselves here. It is the Labour Party which is simply moving in one direction without drawing a conclusion as to what kind of defence concept one should have in this country. Of course, we're going to have a defense of the North Sea and the North Sea areas, which Halvorsen was concerned about, but then we have to first decide what the whole concept is. Here, Halvorsen runs away without drawing any conclusions in any direction he wants. Then it often ends in the ditch, but that's what he likes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1659	Like the representative Halvorsen, I find it extremely difficult to follow Langeland's logic. There are two expressions Langeland is still using. One is that we have to wait, and the other is that he is opposed. What are we going to use frigates for, we don't have any enemies? This is our insurance. Of course, we need to take care of the things we have. We're going to take care of our oil installations. We're going to take care of our long-distance coasts and the huge sea areas that are probably always going to be controversial. This is the insurance to be able to have these things intact. If we don't have frigates and seagoing ships, we can just forget these things. Others will be there right away. In recent years, a number of samples have been reduced, and now Langeland is waiting for samples again. The Bondevik Government, which has been mentioned earlier, reduced its defence policy sample in 1999, and it will soon deliver its suspension. Later, a vulnerability committee has been reduced and, at the same time, the head of defence is working on the defence study. The Swedish Defence Research Institute is working on a defence analysis. In the last ten years, 2000 samples have been reduced that have worked in the Defence Department. What have we got out of it? The Bondevik government didn't do anything about it. All the time, the bulk of investments are postponing the completion of some investigation. What does Langeland expect from what comes now? If you come to the conclusion that we are going to build frigates, is he willing to go into it, or are we going to set up a new sample and review it again?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1666	I understand from the Progress Party Per Ove Wide that he wants to appear like a man of action, who makes decisions and gets things done. That's what I thought was constructive. But if you do it in the loose air, there's something completely different. Then there's a waste of taxpayers' money. That's the father Width is in. That's actually what's going to happen, because a choose not to wait for the items to come, and the width and all of them here are going to be in and decide which direction the defense should go in. Then I can't answer how many frigates there should be in the Norwegian defense. Because what we're going to do first is we're going to draw the conclusion of what we need, and then we're going to buy from it. Now you run away, without having discussed what kind of defense concept you should have, and that's going to be the wrong order. It may be that in the next round SV goes in to get more frigates, I shouldn't ignore it – if that's what we find out is the best. Now do something without thinking about it. That's our point. So I just want to clear up to the Halvorsen: Running in the ditch was the wrong image to use - it should of course be to crash when we talk about frigates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1673	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1676	The left is satisfied that the Stortinget today gives a clear signal for the construction of frigates to the Norwegian maritime defence. For many years, there has been a broad technical and political consensus that new frigates are an essential part of the modernisation of defence, and the need to increase the investment share of the defence budget has been underlined in the long-term notification. In addition, the decision we are about to take here today will have enormous repercussions on Norwegian industry and competence for a long time to come. A minority has chosen to focus so much on, among other things. the uncertainty of the project that they will push the whole decision out of time and not take a decision today. I just want to remind you that what we're talking about here is a significant, perhaps the largest, investment project in mainland Norway ever, with a time perspective that extends over decades. With such a scale and complexity one will always have to operate with some uncertainty. It will always be possible to claim that the basis of decision is not safe enough, as the minority does. The left considers that the Ministry of Defence, through the comprehensive process towards today’s decision, has taken these elements very seriously and done what is possible to assess and eliminate or minimise different risks, both under former Minister of Defence Eldbjørg Løwer and today’s Minister of Defence. I believe the main consequences of the postponement proposed by the Central Party and SV here will not be a better frigate project, but a serious deterioration in Norway's credibility internationally, and a shot at the bow of many large and small Norwegian companies that will have unique opportunities to win positions in the world market with this agreement. The frigate investment is of course made to meet the defence needs, both for domestic tasks and to meet our international obligations. A country such as Norway, with sea areas seven times larger than the mainland area, depends on an operational and modern maritime defence system in order to assert our sovereignty, secure the sea as a transport route and provide support to civil society in the event of disasters and accidents. At the same time, all reasonableness suggests that we should use such a chance to develop our business and contribute to national technology development and value creation. The contract with Spanish Bazán takes full account of this, and will have enormous ringing effects on Norwegian business for a long time to come. The contract contains repurchase agreements for 100 pst. of the contract value, and several key companies have already concluded large agreements with Bazán on long-term cooperation and strategically important deliveries. Among these are Mjellem & Karlsen in Bergen, Umoe Herrkoder in Kristiansund and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace. Repurchase is a key instrument for developing Norwegian industrial environments of competence, and not least for giving them access to large markets that have previously been difficult to access. I am particularly pleased that we have used this opportunity to distort the repurchase agreements towards high-tech areas of great importance to civil society as well. A good example is maritime information and communication technology, where Norwegian environments, thanks to our long maritime traditions, are in the middle of the elite division internationally and are now strengthened to make Norway a major power in the highly growing part of the maritime cluster. I would also like to point out that small and medium-sized enterprises in the agreement with Bazán will be reimbursed with a repurchase charge of DKK 1 billion. We have repeatedly seen that the biggest repurchase problem of small businesses has been to establish contacts with foreign suppliers. I hope this contract can trigger a variety of new cooperation projects between groups of small businesses or between the major Norwegian suppliers and small businesses as subcontractors, so that we can make the best possible use of the enormous value creation potential that is now opening up. Finally, I would like to stress that the Left believes that the defence as a whole will not consume any particular amount of society's resources than today. It is therefore important for the Left that increased expenditure in defence with the new frigates be matched by savings in other areas. With that assumption, I think the frigate agreement will be very good for both Norwegian industry and Norwegian defence. We have put in place an important piece in adapting and modernising defence to changing environments and tasks, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1695	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1698	I have a certain understanding of the need of the Left to defend the former Minister of Defence and to defend jobs in the home state, but I still have some questions related to this investment on which the Left will now participate. If we assume that one gets a cost of $18 billion at the end – I think it’s small, but let’s take it as a starting point – one might, for example, buy three PCs for all the 600,000 students in this country for the money. One gets an operating cost of $1.2 billion a year when you calculate your loan money. So the left select now to prioritize the defense so strongly. Sorry, but there must be a selection. But what's surprising is that a good thing to do this before you know where you want the defense, a good thing to do this before you've concluded what kind of defense you want. And it's amazing. But here is the most important thing to follow up previous councils and follow up on the defence needs in this matter, even though I don't think this is really what the defense needs. I think what we need is a restructuring of the defense. Now select the Left through its vote to go for a restructuring where the frigates should join and control where they want to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1705	I register what Langeland says about jobs in the home state, etc. I just want to stress that the agreements that have been concluded are based on the concept that has been assessed, and there are several concepts that have been delivered, so this has come into place in a clean and proper process. Then it is the costs that the representative Langeland is operating on – DKK 18 billion. Earlier today he has operated with a doubling of the numbers that stand. I cannot agree with such assessments. We need to have confidence in what it says. It is not advisable to predict how things will develop in the future, but in the future. Today, that's the best basis we have for making a decision. Langeland talked about three PCs for each student etc. It's clear that everything can be transformed into other things when we're going to spend money on something, but we don't have to, with the huge sea areas we have, with the value creation that happens off our coast, and with the expectations of value creation that we have in our oceans, to make sure that we don't have a certainty that this will be the value creation that we all expect. We have – there are several that have been in the past today – installations in the ocean for billions and annual expansion for billions, so we have to see everything in relation here. In the case of repeated cases, a decision is made here before a person knows what he wants with the defence, as long-term messages are treated at regular intervals, sampling is reduced, etc. And we big-time representatives aren't chosen just to process messages and put down samples, sometimes we also have to make decisions. This case is now mature to make a decision, and that is the decision that is right to make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1714	I'd like to challenge the left a little bit more. As he stands so hard on this decision, I would like to hear what kind of enemy image it is that the representative Kongshaug from the left sees for himself. What kind of enemy image does one need exactly the five frigates you've just ordered? Can the representative explain how they will be included in the new defence concept, how they will function in relation to the enemy image the representative sees? Surely we must have something to protect the coast, which can protect Norway from possible enemies in the future. And we have an exposed position – yes. But then we must have thought through what kind of enemy image it is we are to defend ourselves against. The left selects now to reverse. They want to build some frigates, and then they hope to fit in with the time you have. So if you could explain to me what makes one just need five frigates, SV would be very happy about that. What I think is also a point when it concerns the size of the amount, is that this is not the first time that you see that the calculations are going to increase, but I hope, of course, that I am wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1723	At this point, of course, one can discuss both the one and the other, but what is quite clear about the frigate matter is that it is so well established both on a professional and political level that the decision-making basis is present. And when the question then comes about why you need an absolute five frigates, it's based on the professional assessments and what's been in the lead in long-term messages in the past, that it's at the level you should have our defense in the form of frigates. Now it's also the way that the frigates we have are approx. 40 years old, and the representative of Langeland must agree that 40 years old material is about to be replaced in more modern equipment. And as for the number of frigates, if we're not sure if five is the right number today, we're not going to be any safer in a year if it's five or six or four that's the right number.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1730	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1733	There is no doubt that this investment in new frigates costs money, a lot of money. There are also indications that there is a certain degree of uncertainty related to the financial part of the project. It is therefore possible to have an understanding of those representatives who wish to assess this investment in the light of the long-term notification of the defence, which is discussed in spring 2001. For my part and for the Labour Party, however, there is no doubt that this investment is of great importance both in terms of defence policy and in terms of industrial policy, and we believe that it is important to implement it now. Of the original five frigates of the OSLO class currently used by Norway, only three are in operation. These frigates were handed over to the Defense in the 1960s and are thus strongly characterized by fire and wear. We're therefore, if we think it's timely to have frigates, in a situation that requires us to quickly start phasing in new ones. Norway manages resources and exercises powers in a sea area of the size of seven times our own mainland. Our archipelago is 57 000 km long, by comparison the perimeter of the earth is 40 000 km long, and we are all aware of what resources are in the Norwegian sea areas. This alone should be argumentation good enough for us to need an appropriate maritime defence. The frigates are also planned to be used in international operations. Norway has undertaken to put military forces at the disposal of both the UN and NATO if we are asked to do so. As a small country, it is also in the interest of our country that we thus contribute to strengthening the authority and the power of these organisations, which we depend on for our own safety. Meeting Norway’s international obligations therefore becomes one of the main tasks of the frigates in the future. Peacekeeping operations and crisis management are two of the main tasks of NATO’s standing Atlantic forces. Norway's contribution to the force is essential for our credibility as an ally member. With the new frigates in place, we will be able to meet the wishes of our collaborators. It will result in increased influence and credibility within NATO. Our defence plans are based on allied support, but also mean that we must be willing to provide something. The frigates will be one of our most important contributions in this way. In connection with our invasion defense, the frigates will also have a very important task. The ability to manage crisis in its own waters is an important argument in this respect. In crisis and war, the supply lines at sea and along the coast are the lifeblood of both the population and the Defence. The main task of the frigates in this context is to help keep the supply lines open. This includes the ability to maintain maritime control. The frigates, which are our largest and most versatile vessels, thus represent an essential security policy tool for us – no matter what our country is in. It has been claimed that NATO has enough frigates, and therefore Norway does not need its own vessels. In this context, it is important to stress that Norway has a national responsibility for crisis management. Furthermore, we have a responsibility to facilitate the reception and after-supply of allied reinforcements in the event of crisis and war. If we do not have such capacity ourselves, it will help undermine the ability and will of our allies to come to our rescue. What will the consequence be if we don't get new frigates? Immediately nothing will happen except that the maritime defence operating budget, and hence the Defence budget, will be reduced. In the longer term, we will have reduced influence in the alliance. Politically, the lack of frigates in the future will contribute to weakening the alliance’s security guarantee to Norway. In addition, we will have a reduced ability to fill key positions in NATO military organization with competent Norwegian marine officers. This will reduce the transparency and control of issues relating to Norwegian security interests and reduce the ability to argue convincingly and transparently for Norwegian interests at sea. In short, the difference between a Norwegian maritime defence with and without frigates is the difference between a professional and credible maritime defence that can offer the country a wide range of action options in the exercise of Norwegian foreign and security policy and a maritime defence in imbalance, without the possibility of solving many of the tasks that could be imposed on a maritime defence in a maritime nation such as Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1760	For me, this is a joyous day – both because one determines that the financial basis for building the frigates is in place, and because the construction of these five frigates of defence ensures very good repurchase agreements for Norwegian industrial and technology companies. There can be no doubt that, with our vast seas, we must have a fleet of frigates of time, which is a very important contribution to the interests of our country. I am particularly pleased with the very good results of our authorities in cooperation with Norwegian suppliers in the repurchase negotiations with Bazán. This ensures difficult assignments for Norwegian industry both in terms of frigates and other Norwegian activities and industry. It is also gratifying that contracts ensure very long-term cooperation, which gives our companies a unique opportunity both to expand in volume and to develop high-tech skills of great value for the future. I am not least pleased that several of our shipyards have secured large and long-term jobs, which give a exposed business new competitiveness. I also do not hide the fact that I am very happy with the large assignments that this goes to, among other things. Umoe Volkoder in Kristiansund. This is of course very important for this enterprise, and it is very important that activities are increased by the yard for many years to come. This yard is located in the city of Kristiansund and in a region where unfortunately we still have too much unemployment. The contracts for this yard also provide this district with new opportunities for job creation and skills building, which are so necessary in this part of the country. I am impressed by the work done by this company to enable a very comprehensive mission for Bazán in Norway. Then I would like to stress the following: the repurchase agreements have to be fixed. It cannot be accepted that Bazán is trying to make these agreements. I am very pleased that the Committee has stated in a crystal clear manner that the conclusion of the contract is based on the absolute assumption that Bazán will have the necessary agreements with Norwegian operators in place before the conclusion of the main contract between the Defence and Bazán. Although what I am now saying is not a big point today, I am still amazed that, among other things. The centre party proposes to suspend decisions in the frigate case. It could, if it had been given a majority, which fortunately is not getting, have led to enormous consequences for the Norwegian companies that have now received difficult and interesting assignments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1777	As far as the debate is concerned, it is natural to dwell a little on what has happened in the Chamber earlier today, and then I will try to let the representative Restad get an answer to the questions he asked, which he expressed that he wanted an answer to. We had a small debate about chorals, which led him to draw some strange conclusions about Right former Prime Minister and frigate, Kåre Willoch. I immediately received strong assurances from Johan J. Jakobsen that he is the head of the Trondelag. So if you're out of date, I don't know what, sir. Restad had in mind through my formulation of Tøndelag. Otherwise, it was all the more remarkable that Gudmund Restad tried to put school, care for the elderly and hospitals up against the Right Priorities. For the big, dramatic difference is that an almost unanimous increase has repeatedly established a framework for defence, and then they have not followed up through the annual appropriations in the Stortinget. So when committee leader Røsjorde says that it's in the Storting making decisions, then there's a truth with modifications, because decisions are made in two stages – phase 1: as long as you're at the general good level, and phase 2: when you're going to put the necessary funds at your disposal. Then all of a sudden it's a completely different song. That's why we're out of 10 billion kroner, which is – to make it visible – between at least three and four of the five frigates we're now talking about. And I'd like to think that when Restad asks questions, it's because he's unsure and wants an answer. But it's very difficult to take inward what's meant by the questions, because Restad has been present in Stortinget. In every year of these periods, the Right has set up every penny of what we otherwise agreed on in the general decisions – every year we have set up with every single penny. The resort has been among those who have weakened these appropriations all along. And of course, from the right, we've done this all along, while we've made up money for school, education and hospitals. But it is therefore a will for priorities in other areas, which unfortunately the majority of the Biggest, have not been willing to participate. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the posts of Mr Leif Helge Kongshaug. He gave a fine account of what was the basis for the decision of the government of which the Restad and the Central Party were members. He told us in a very clear way why we had to have the frigates. What is sad in this context is that the party that now only has the claim of defence friendliness back has found it right to go in alliance with the museum administrators in SV in this matter. It can't be explained out, and it's almost not to believe that the party that's still claiming to be defence-friendly, it seems that it's the alliance that's natural for the Center Party to belong to. I think the Center Party has to find out, and have an understanding that the rest of the Biggest parties are asking serious questions. It's not meant to be malicious, but it's no pleasure that we need another explanation about how the Center Party can maintain this claim that they're still friends of the Defense in Norway. Of course, this won't get any better when you see it in relation to the other positions of the party, where it's NATO that's the very bearer, if we're to understand the rhetoric correctly, which is the only element of the Central Party's defence policy. And then it's a fact that the frigates are a prerequisite for Norway to be able to participate with credibility in NATO's standing Atlantic forces. The centre party refuses to follow-up with appropriations, they form alliances with SV in an important defence policy position, they do not make funds available under our NATO commitments, and they refuse to enter into commitment cooperation to ensure our security vis-à-vis the EU. This together makes that if the Central Party is not willing to make any statements other than statements, I have to hold on to what I have now said a few times, that the Central Party's credibility in defence is the same level as that of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1791	I must fully agree with the chairperson of the Committee and with all those who have stressed the need for new frigates by Norwegian defence regardless of the analysis resulting from the defence study and other preparatory work for the long-term programme for the coming period. And I don't think it's particularly difficult to explain. The idea of a maritime nation like Norway, which is over 30 pst. for the purposes described in the proposal and in the basic work, I find it quite inconceivable that of the area of Western Europe, including the sea areas, should not have larger seagoing vessels. No other country in the world to which we can compare, stands out like this, and I ignore the fact that Norway can take care of itself this way – and I perceive the Center Party so that one here is going to get on the track, but perhaps at some later stage. I also think it is worrying – to put it mildly – that the government that carried out a full analysis of these problems, and that was in favour of the project, goes into disintegration as clearly as it is now, even though it remains to be seen if a year is what government protocols can tell about it. Former Minister of Finance Restad has stressed that he has learned a lot about Defence since he joined the Defence Committee. He should have learned more through his companionship with former Minister of Defense Løwer, where he was told everything about this project. There is nothing in her handling this matter that I regard as critical. It's her arrangement I've inherited. That's the Bondevik government's arrangement we're now implementing, and nothing has happened in the meantime that was supposed to do anything else. Let me say in connection with the structural independence of this issue that the new frigates, as we know, are to replace today's OSLO class ships, which have been in use since the 1960s and are very springtime ships. Extensive basic work has been carried out over the past decade, among others. by the Military Command, the Military Supply Command and the Defence Research Institute. These investigations have all concluded that the acquisition of new frigates is to be regarded as structurally independent elements, in other words an acquisition deemed necessary, irrespective of the future defence structure on which one wishes to base. Different types of vessels, different ship concepts, have been assessed at project level in order to arrive at a scheme that can best meet Norwegian needs, including an assessment of the possible purchase of used vessels and vessel solutions both with and without helicopters. The acquisition of new frigates is the first in the series of projects that, in accordance with the previous government decision, have been subject to an external assessment of the risk associated with the implementation of the project. This work has identified uncertainties relating to the possibility of carrying out the acquisition within the adopted budget framework. I'm referring here to the proposition. We would not have tabled this proposal if we did not think it was reasonably likely that it would hold, but at the same time we have explained the analyses underlying the uncertainty. I would remind you – for those who paint the worst ghosts on the wall – that any exceedances beyond the frame should not be taken from children and young people, from care for the elderly and from all other good purposes. They must be taken within the defence framework in the future. Let's be clear. If we still think about a defence budget of about 25 billion dollars a year, it goes to investment every year plus/minus 6 billion dollars. In other words, it might be a matter of shifting something on the NOK 6 billion every year if there is a need to cover something more than what is in the new proposed framework of NOK 14,066 billion. I do not say that it is small money, but did not come and present it as if it were taking money from other purposes through scandalous budgeting. There may be none other than the Defense itself. The increase in the framework, from NOK 12,240 billion to NOK 14,066 billion, as explained in the proposition, relates to project implementation, adjusted currency estimates and general price conversion from 1999 to 2000 dollars. Compared to project implementation costs, the Government has wanted to make them visible within the project framework. So we're going in to get 431 million. kr, initially covered by the operating budget, is covered by the investment budget within the framework of the project. Implementation costs have been readjusted from 431 million following review. NOK 519 million. kr. Further details are given of the revised currency allocations and the currency curve associated with the fact that there will be payments in both US dollars, euro and Norwegian dollars. Of course, it is impossible today to say anything about the way this carries, it can go up and it can go down. It has never been assumed that fluctuations in the exchange rate should be a burden on the seller. That's what we're carrying, and we're also carrying any winnings – if it's going to go the right way. After the presentation of St.prp. No 48 for 1999-2000, a number of comments have been made through the media, which, in my view, are based on obvious misunderstandings. They relate to the choice of supplier, to the negotiated guarantee and to the performance of the vessels. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we have adhered to the exact same acquisition procedure that the Stortinge joined in the treatment of St.prp. No 65 for 1998-99. We started with half a dozen – yes more – stakeholders internationally, and we conducted a comprehensive international bidding round without a military line in terms of large investments, just to get a ship concept that was as cheap and as good as possible, well aware that we had something to learn from others, since it was 40 years since we built frigates ourselves. So it's given the result that we have now. Blohm+Voss has been given the opportunity to submit a number of revised sketches even after Bazán was preferred. A review of these sketches has not provided the basis for saying that it changes the situation so that one starts on a full package from the front. I would say to those who read the chronicles and what else is written in the newspapers about this: if I was the one who was near to winning a bid, but not quite in goal, I would always come up with something that looked a little better. But we can't go on forever. We have to base our judgment on what's coming from new information, rather than starting over every single time someone says they have something cheaper, because then we never get to the goal. That was the government's perception at the time, and it was – after we looked through the drawers and evaluated the papers – this government's perception. It's that simple. Of course, it's easy to understand that someone is disappointed. With regard to the guarantee issues, it is correct that the Defence's contract audit office agreed at an early stage for a state guarantee, but it was at a time when it was not possible to find other satisfactory guarantees. Meanwhile, the Spanish state holding company Sociedad Estatal de Participaciones Industriales, SEPI, has not only appeared credible but perhaps as an even stronger guarantee option than much else. They have a legislative change in Spain per year. On 1 January 2000, this type of guarantee was given. The guarantee negotiated is a combined implementation and repayment guarantee of approximately NOK 10 billion. In addition, a 15 pst has been negotiated. implementing guarantee from a commercial bank. It's saying whether SEPI can't go bankrupt. It may be liquidated by a legislative amendment. But in such a case, the guarantee obligations will be transferred either to another company, established by law, or to the Spanish State as such. In these cases, too, the guarantee will remain in place. And I would say, it is unmistakable that modern Spain, which is doing very well economically and politically, should not be able to honour such a commitment. It would be a scandal that exceeds some of what we have seen in modern times, in a Spain that has evolved into a very credible partner, political and economic. And I'm in doubt – if it would have been possible – whether it's a particularly better option to link to a unilateral state guarantee. This is a commercial contract between Bazán and the Administration's Supply Command, and it is raised beyond doubt that the negotiated mechanisms that the Government Attorney has carefully gone through are a satisfactory alternative for us and for the Maritime Defence. This is an absolute solution that we're able to recommend, but it's no different than the government that Bondevik came up with. It is partly manufactured here in the hall as if we have given up the State guarantee and entered into the SEPI guarantee. It was already done – long before we entered the government offices. With this I am pleased with the setting. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I again assure Stortinget that a satisfactory repurchase agreement for the project is to be regarded as a prerequisite for the conclusion of the contract, and I am pleased to note that it is also reflected in today's cancellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1823	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1826	The Minister of Defence strongly underlined the need for a secure investment profile in the future. He also said that if something should happen to the project's framework, it would have to be included in the defence budget. It's in itself understandable. But then it becomes all the more important that the defence frameworks, and especially the investment budget, are not constantly cut as lightning comes from the clear sky. I would like to know how the Minister of Defence looks at cuts that must come abruptly and unexpectedly, and how it will affect the ability to manage long-term investments. I would also like to ask the Minister of Defense how he assesses the decision of the Storting to grant NOK 6 billion – what it means to get this project through in a tidy way without distorting anything else that is also necessary to acquire into the Defence. The last question may be at least as important: what is the Council of State's view of what is a necessary part of the entire frigate package, i.e. the development of new maritime missiles and helicopters? Can the Council of State say anything about how he now sees the pace of the acquisition of helicopters, which is a completely necessary integral part of the weapon systems on a frigate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1835	When the Chairman of the Committee refers to unexpected cuts in the investment budget, I can only confirm that I understand what the Chairman of the Committee is aiming for. It goes without saying that unforeseeable cuts in the importance of intervention in relation to the framework of the long-term programme are not desirable in terms of long-termity, predictability and planning throughout defence planning. We have discussed the whole issue earlier today. In a situation where the Defense presented an additional bill of SEK 1.3 billion, it was unfortunately unrealistic to think that they should not contribute to any of the funding itself, namely SEK 500 million. kr. There is, however, a net increase for the defence total of 800 million, in violation of Storting's principles, but after all 800 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I sincerely hope that, for the future, we will be able to stand up so that we have long-term and predictability in the investment budgets, because it is a prerequisite for implementing the plans that I hope will be given the opportunity to come back to when the long-term programme is presented next spring, or around the turn of the year, which is the absolute plan for it. As for the other questions that relate to equiping the frigates in such a way that they can function, I naturally immediately take to heart the importance that we cannot stand there with five frigate hulls without the elements on the deck and in weapon systems and support functions that are to be present for the frigates to function. Something else would be very irrational. And we're concerned, as soon as the decision of the Storting is made, and as the follow-up work of the defense study and the long-term planning progresses, to make sure that the pieces fall into place as foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1846	I will first give honor to the Council of State for a very tidy performance and follow-up of the race that was laid down by the previous government. The Christian People's Party is well pleased that a majority in the Great Britain now joins in the proposal that has been thoroughly worked through by the previous government. I would like to ask the Council of State a question as to what the committee has written about the 400 million. kr included in the project framework for construction investment. The Ministry is asked to ‘come back to Stortinget if such investments should become relevant’. There has also been a great deal of interest in the maintenance of the frigates. I would like a confirmation from the Council of State that the Stortinge will be given an opinion on this matter before deciding how the maintenance is to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1853	Of course, I take all the compliments, even though it was in my greeting that I had to share it with former Minister of Defense Løwer. It's not really hard in this case. I believe that she had good governance with this project. I repeat that the scheme presented here, we have inherited from the previous government, not as an unwelcome inheritance, but as something we fully agree with. I should have wanted all the government parties in the government of Bondevik to have the same basic attitude to that. But as far as I understand, it's the snow that fell last year. It is quite correct that we need to come back to the follow-up of maintenance capacity and some other questions regarding the operational side of the new frigates. It is illustrated by the amount mentioned in the proposition, of about 400 million. kr in addition, but it is within the somewhat extended framework. There's nothing more to say than that we first have to get the decision on the frigates, and then we have to start building them, and then we have to think in parallel with that about a rational arrangement for maintenance and related questions. It goes without saying that it's sea-military and operationally important for the frigates, but it's also important for Coast Norway. We can't put one heavy dock in each coastal municipality, if there's anyone who'd thought of it. Of course, we need a rational capacity, which hopefully also has a positive impact on district policy. And there are a lot of players on the track already. I have been dishonoured by stakeholders who have been more concerned with the maintenance of the frigates than with the fact that we are getting the frigates. Let's do it in the right order.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1860	On a few occasions today, the Council of State has said that the defence has received 800 million. kr extra, and it can sound good. It could be misinterpreted. What has happened is that all of a sudden we had to go to Kosovo with 1,200 men, and of course we have to pay for that. Then it's paid extra, except for the defense budget 800 million. And then we took 500 million. kr inside that exceeded investment. That's where it is. And if we take on such assignments, one of course has to pay for it. What I asked for the word for was this with maintenance. That's led up to about 400 million. kr here, and I thought it is very important that we do not now use money to duplicate things under our own responsibility, the Defence Agency's regime, which we can buy privately. Private docks are available in several places in this country. I just want to make sure that all such possibilities will be assessed before any investment is made in the Defence's own regime, and that the Stortinget will be informed in an appropriate way about the way in which you intend to arrange the maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1867	The answer to that is yes. It is such a big and important question that Stortinget will be presented with a proposal for it based on professional input. We are concerned about doing this as rationally and properly as possible for the Maritime Defense Department and for the sake of the operation of the frigates. At the same time, I would like to remind you that frigates are not supposed to be in a permanent dock. It's every three or four years there's a frigate inside a dock, and so it's not a permanent and running business all the way. So we have to make sure that we have a financial arrangement for this that can be defended within the tight framework we have here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1875	I assume without a doubt that the Minister of Defence and I have the same objective, namely a timely, effective and best-possible Norwegian defence. However, when we have come to a different conclusion regarding the purchase of frigates, it must be because we consider some premises differently. I also assume that we agree that today there are clear imbalances in defence, an imbalance between tasks and resources and an imbalance between investment and operations. Let's do the resource question first. I consider it this way, as I have expressed several times today, that it is unrealistic to base increased defence frameworks in the future. Does the Minister of Defence agree that the defence is likely to have to cope with today's framework of about 25 billion kroner in the future? So the imbalance between operation and investment. Operating costs need to be greatly reduced, at least 2, and perhaps DKK 3 billion a year, in order to allow for the necessary investments. In this situation, it makes sense to start the cutting process by investing in five frigates that will increase the annual operating costs by nearly 500 million. Do you really want to delete this item? I have noticed that the Minister of Defence has agreed that large investments will be put on ice, exposed, or perhaps re-evaluated/cancelled. I am thinking here primarily of the acquisition of new fighter aircraft and MTBs, but also of new transport aircraft and armoured special vehicles. Is the Minister of Defence convinced that the acquisition of five new frigates of between DKK 15 and 20 billion must be given priority over all other investments? If he were to be, is he sure that we must have five frigates, and that another number is completely out of date, that the selected weapon systems, including the radar, are also the best in 10-15 years, that Bazán is the best supplier, and that others, such as Blohm+Voss or Fleischer & Co.'s consortium with BAE Systems, could not have been better off if you had just engaged in negotiations with them?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1888	It's wrong to say that we give the frigates priority over all other projects. It goes $2 billion a year to frigates, one within the frame and one outside the frame. And if it's true, as I say, for years on end, we're going to take 5-6 billion dollars to invest in the defense, it goes without saying that a majority of the investment funds go to other projects all the way, and not primarily to frigates. So we're going to do a lot in addition to the frigates every year. But the planes were too much. In addition, NOK 10-11 billion was simply not available within the revised investment profile that we have to come back to in relation to the future long-term programme. And the fighter planes are in a different situation than the frigates. While frigate no. 1 of the OSLO class has fallen, and the others can hardly operate much longer, so we have fighter aircraft that, after their mid-life update, can keep it going with enhanced capacity compared to what they had when they were new, until 2012-2015. So we're in a completely different situation here than we are on the frigate side. And that's the basis for the course we've laid down. So I want to answer the question, don't these frigates pull a lot of operating costs? Yeah, they're probably pulling around 20 pst. of the operational expenditure of the Naval Defence Agency in the year. I don't think it's much taken into account that this is the main weapon of the Navy. Shouldn't they be entitled to 20 pst. of the operating costs plus/minus? If we can't afford boats that are out of the sea in the interests of the Marine Defense's operating costs, then we can put down the Marine Defense and ask the Maritime Defense to land, or deal with the Sjöheimewert or smaller ships. But it's going to be a completely wrong way to run the Navy, anyway, based on everything I've learned, both through my time in foreign policy, security policy, in the Defence Committee and in other ways. Then we've actually said no to a seagoing marine defense of the usual known international class, and we should have that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1899	The Minister of Defence has put his foot down for some projects in a commendable way after he entered the responsible government position. That's what I think is positive, because that's exactly what you should do when you figure out what kind of defense concept you should have for the future. But I'm surprised that the Minister of Defense is still doing well to continue with the shooting field and with a very precious frigate project – the greatest defence investment of the time. So it's up to the Council of States to do anyway, despite the fact that one stops other things to think about. My question is above all related to what today's enemy image makes it necessary to invest in these frigates now and not wait until one has received no less than three statements to tell us what kind of defense concept we should have for the future. I also want to know what it is in the defence concept that the Minister of Defense has in his head, which means that we need exactly five frigates for the new defence concept. What's the basis for that? What is it about the enemy that we're going to protect ourselves from, that gives us the basis to say that we need exactly five? That's what I thought was very interesting, because it's clear that if it was of coast guard vision, there were more reasonable ways to do it than by building frigates. Then there is this with the framework of the defence budget and this with structural links. Otherwise, if it is to be covered within the budget and if it is envisaged that the budget will be as it is now, the operation and the costs of the frigates will be governed by the defence concept. Am I wrong about this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1910	Of course, I agree with the representative of Langeland that thinking is a good thing, but it is not that thinking requires total paralysis in sensible activity. And that's the basis for us promoting this proposal, completely in accordance with the intentions and the arrangement of the previous government, for the reasons I have just referred to both in the article and in the answer to the previous lines. We're not really talking about enemy image anymore. I think the representative of Langeland is moving in the age of cold war. We're talking about assessing the potential capacity to meet security challenges in a new era. And if the representative reads the introduction to the current long-term defence programme, he gets a very complex picture of the kind of challenges we can face in our area – ranging from crisis and war in a classical sense to sovereignty monitoring, participation in allied operations, peacekeeping and peace-building activities – a wide range of activities. Why exactly five, and not six, as the original proposal was? It is based on operational analyses from the Maritime Defence for what is needed in a situation where one vessel will often be by land and in a maintenance situation, and where we need the others in the other functions provided by the Maritime Defence, based on a total assessment of the number of vessels. It's desirable with six, but one believes one can use five in the context of the varied pattern that we're talking about here. So I want to say that it's obvious that once we've completed the defense study, we've provided the basis for the next long-term program, there's a whole series of elements that we haven't taken sides to now, and that we have to come back to. But I'm afraid that neither the Eastern Region field nor the North region – Mauken-Blatind – are among the elements that we can review, for the simple reason that in the days of modern warfare we need the type of exercise fields represented by the two fields. There are also structurally independent measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1921	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1924	Every four years, the Chief of Defense conducts a defence study on the basis of a long-term plan for the defence activity being dealt with in Stortinget. In the situation we are now facing, there are more fundamental discussions related to the defence study than it may have been in previous defence studies, with the exception of the negotiations following the establishment of the Defence Commission in 1990 and the study that was then discussed. During the period from the time the Defence Commission gave its position today, the share of gross domestic product going to defence equipment has fallen dramatically, so drastically, that I think that if someone had launched it as SV's policy ten years ago, even the SV would have taken away that it was what their defence policy was all about. The situation is quite critical in Norwegian defence at the moment, but at the same time it is no more critical than the need to decide how many balls to have in the air at all times. Despite the need to make major structural changes in defence, there are some things that are certain, where raising even more balls in the air can create more problems than you already have today. Although discussing a new possible defence concept, although discussing how many projects you can afford under the investment framework, there are individual tasks that will lie there, both in peacetime and in wartime, for a country such as Norway and on the coast of Norway. When the Defence Commission worked on the issue of our military defence, we were presented in an original study with a proposal where there should be no frigates. The reactions of marine military forces were quite large. The reindeer concept, which was only about national war tasks, had at the time thought from the Swedish Defence Research Institute that frigates might not be so important that they held on to a great, strong force with MTBs. Now it turns out that the frigates are quite important elements in connection with all the other tasks that the Defense has, which are independent of the image of war that you've had in the past and that have less significance. That's why I'm a little surprised at the debate on whether these are elements that are kind of just dependent on the kind of concept you have. My opinion is that the reason for the acquisition of the frigates has been far more independent of the defence concept we have, but of course also to a significant extent that we are participants in NATO and need to build up a defence that can actually work in cooperation with NATO, that we have interoperability and cooperation, and that we take our responsibilities not least for Norwegian continental shelf and Norwegian oil business, also for defence reasons. Fregat purchases have a reason which is independent of those structures. In any case, we see from the Right that changes are needed. It is possible that other parties believe that there will be even more fundamental structural changes in the future that will make us not need frigates. So from our point of view, we've been going through structural change needs, and we still think it's obvious that frigates are an important cornerstone of a marine defense, perhaps the most important part of maritime defence in the future. It makes it completely unnatural to go in for a postponement, provided that the project is good enough. I have to say that I was very surprised to hear the input of our former finance minister into this debate, not related to the question of postponement that is really in the notes, but about questioning the project itself – and this is therefore a proposition that has been handed down by the previous government. There is almost nothing about this project that has not called into question Gudmund Restad in this debate. It's almost as if you're wondering why, as Minister of Finance, he's been at all involved in transmitting the proposition to the Stortinget. My question is: do you actually think there are so many concerns about the project? You don't say that in the setting either. There are more purely conceptual considerations and changes after next year’s examination of the defence plans that are being questioned. But it is believed that the project is as poorly thought-out as Gudmund Restad has said in this debate, I must say that I wonder why Gudmund Restad has at all been involved in transmitting this document to Stortinget. My question is whether there are other considerations behind it. Will the Central Party only free itself from everything they've been in for government in this context? The rest of us have to take the words of the central government because this project actually holds true.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1941	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1944	In all crossroads related to the handling of defence cases during this period, the Swedish authorities have pointed to the need for a greater review of the structures and the defence concept. Every time, this has been met with partly heady and slightly downsetting comments from other parties. Eventually, it has been shown that this position has been right. When I read parts of St.prp. No 58, I have to say that it is very similar to the main reason that SV has had to propose to put all the large, heavy investments at risk in order to see them in the light of future needs. It is quite clear that the proposition put forward by the Minister of Defence is a clear statement that this is about providing a basis for freedom of action in order to follow up proposals presented in the next long-term communication, i.e. to meet the needs of the defence in fact. I dare say that if it was SV who had submitted a proposal similar to that in St.prp. No 58, in fact, I believe that the Workers' Party, which has now presented the proposition, had voted against – not because the actual content had been something different, but simply out of old habit and because you are not willing to hear that there can be good arguments in such a compilation. I have been sitting during the debate and reading a little of what our current Minister of Defence said when we last debated the long-term communication. Then there was little doubt that there was a very precarious need for both fighter planes and MTBs, even ‘to a greater extent than some of the needs of the Navy and the Army’, he said in his posts. Times have changed. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence now sees that it is the right policy to postpone more of the investments. SV's position is that this should have been done before. So for every day that goes, you lock yourself up in decisions that you've made, that you don't get out of. It's very unfortunate. So until the Minister of Defence said in his last speech about the Eastern Region. It's a big and heavy investment. There aren't many weeks since a new calculation showed that the cost had increased again. And then the minister says this is structurally independent. It's completely impossible to understand. In presenting a new defence concept, where everyone agrees that the Army’s activities need to be reduced – it is geographically scattered across a large area and must be brought together one place – it is a matter of course that the training needs associated with the Army’s activities are very structurally dependent, and that decisions to set in motion whether it is the interconnection of Mauken-Blatin or the start-up of the Regionfield of the East should be put at a disadvantage in line with the projects we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1957	It has been produced, at least from the centre party and SVs, not to be forgotten – it is almost the same in this case – as if you buy frigates now, everything goes wrong. I have previously argued for the need for long-termity. Governments have underlined the potential gap, and the Storting itself has created an additional budget of NOK 6 billion to get this through. I am a little surprised that the leader of the Central Party is not present during the debate today, because I have read in the VG that he has engaged very strongly. He says, Stop the frigate purchase! But if you have to stop something, you have to be there when the train leaves. It wouldn't have been unreasonable. I'm registering that, sir. The Enoch is not present. He may have found out that this is not so crucial anyway. I have to say that what is likely to be the result of the view of the Central Party here can easily be the same as the term for the Andøya municipality, as Mr. The Enoch came from. It has always been described as Norway’s only carrier — the carrier on land. It's Andøya in a nutshell. With the continuation of this by the Centre Party, which then probably forms a basis, it has to be read there that five frigates should be made according to the same reading and model, and we can point out the districts gradually. I assume that was not meant to be. In the case of such a large contract, it is obvious that there will be a great struggle between those who offer this, and everyone else who is involved. This has to do with a lot of money, and then you use all kinds of money. Another thing is that in the defence itself, we have seen a clear internal lobbyism over the last few years, because the money is being fought between defenses and between weapons within the same field of defence. So when Mr. The Enox in the VG refers to the fact that ‘three top commanders with a background in the Navy’ have had a critical attitude to the frigate project, I think that’s fine. If I don't remember correctly, Mr. The native submarine background, while the other two are coastal artillery – excellent men all. But I think this kind of gives a picture that there's significant warfare within, not just between organizations. I also believe that the position of the Center Party is the result of having been influenced by a lobbyism that has been very strong in recent times. So one has the opportunity to ‘lobble’ – it should be lacking – but when such great economic interests are at stake, one must also have the spine enough to stand out, if one believes that one is doing the right thing. We have to expect lobbyism to be expressed in this way, but it is the Greatness that is going to make the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1968	I'd like to fine-tune my previous statements in other capacity from this pulpit, but I don't think I've ever said that planes and MTBs are more important than frigates, if that's what Andersen's representative thought. What makes the regional fields different from what Karin Andersen wants is the following – and here I am going to reveal a secret from the defence study and from the government's work on the long-term programme: we are going to need a land defence in the north and in the south. The rumors that everything in the south is going to move north, I can kill here and now, and the rumors that everything in the north is going to move south, I can also kill here and now. So we need the training and practice concept for the interaction between the weapons species, which is exactly the same as the previous government explained in its handling of the firearms field case, which thus resulted in the creation of the Eastern Region, in the same way that the Stortinge for some years ago decided to set up a similar field, Mauken-Blatind, for North Norway. So this is solid as a very central element in the future, and I can't see anything in the future defense study that's rocking it. A further slimming of land defence — fewer people both in the Army and perhaps also in the Home Office — calls for reduced capacity to be strengthened through better material, and better material to be practiced, and it needs to be combined, and therefore the need for this type of field is no less than before, rather greater than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1977	This is a remarkable debate. Listening to the Minister of Defense and, in particular, to Gudmund Restad and others from the Central Party and some representatives from other parties, it would be thought that Norway was a lukewarm poor country that unfortunately cannot afford to buy modern equipment for its soldiers who perform their duty under duty of protection. The reality is the exact opposite. Gudmund Restad and others are concerned that there has been pressure and overheating in the economy. Yes, there may be pressure in some labour markets. Many are not, because there are 91,000 unemployed. In the old days, the Labour Party said they were going to strike, general strike, because of the high unemployment rate of 80,000 – now there are 91,000. But I might realize that in the case of the exact crews, we don't have to take too many from other labour sectors where there is a claim to be a shortage of labour – that's what you say. But equipment, and equipment purchased abroad, have no impact on the Norwegian domestic economy! You have to be a bureaucrat in the Ministry of Finance or a finance minister to claim something like that. It doesn't matter! And if Norway has ever had the opportunity to make sure that the country's soldiers, whether in the air, on the ground or on the sea – above or below – have top modern, real equipment, the most advanced in the world, it is now! And then they say we can't afford it! It's to laugh at. Of course we have to get the frigates in place. We must be able to defend Norway at sea and in the air first – and possibly on the ground. I would like to say right away that there is no reason why Norway is not going to order these fighter planes now. Only in the last few months have we got extraordinary, unbudgeted, unexpected new revenues, more than to buy the fighter planes it's been about. I rather want the next generation to have a real defense and modern fighter aircraft than having even more shares in Coca-Cola and Philip Morris, which is the alternative. What's claimed is that we have to be careful with the pressure in the economy. So we almost get to say, let's buy the fighter planes, but we can't have repurchase agreements, because then there's pressure in the economy. But if we buy fighter aircraft without repurchase agreements, it has no other effect than that our soldiers get modern equipment. This is a pointless debate. Now I almost want to ask the majority: do you never read newspapers, do you never follow outside these carpenters who come from some departments of the Ministry of Finance? Let's get the frigates in place, let's get started and order fighter planes – and then we'll be happy to take the MTBs then.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e1989	I have registered that the chair of the Defence Committee has called for signatures. To the committee leader's briefing, I have followed many parts of the debate, both here from the hall and from my office. But I've noticed on previous occasions that the great crowd's vice president has sometimes had some problems seeing who is present in the hall, so maybe a couple of borrowed glasses could be in their place. Norway is not a sloppy country, as Carl I. Hagen claims. And of course, it's not like we can't afford to buy these frigates. But I think it's going to be really hard to throw blues in the eyes of the Defense if you try to imagine that they're going to get significantly increased defence frameworks in the future. I think the defense must be prepared to deal with a framework of 25 billion kroner, as we have today. Within those limits, the costs of operating these frigates shall also be covered. Nor is there any disagreement today that unfortunately over time there has become an increasing imbalance between resources and tasks in the Defence and that there has become an increasing imbalance between operations and investments in the Defence. It is also true, as has been said by many, that a new threat picture and new technological developments mean that we are also facing new challenges in defence. In my opinion, the size has a significant challenge. We will develop and also in the future have a defence that is adapted to the future threat picture and the economic framework that it is reasonable to believe will be at the disposal of the Defence. Secondly, a claim for a certain predictability has also been defended. What we are seeing today is that there are cuts in investment frameworks, and there are cuts in operating frameworks. We have not made it clear since the 1991 Defence Study that the Storting itself provided the framework for the development of the Defence in the future. It is this that has brought the defense in the situation that you are today, where there has become more or less a struggle against everyone within the Defence, and where we see an ever-increasing debate between different defenses about the use of resources and allocation of resources, also geographically. What the Minister of Defense says about the future disposal of the country forces is positive, but we know that within the Defence there is a significant discussion about this. No one should believe that it has been an easy decision for the centre party to make, to ask for a postponement of this case. We have, as has been said by several here, taken part in the preparation of this work from the government position, and we have put a thorough work into negotiations and investigation also in government. But the situation is once upon a time that we have a significant imbalance. We are going to deal with a new long-term message for next year, and there are several ongoing investigations that will be submitted in a short time, which will have an impact on the future structure of defence, where it is quite natural, in my view, to include frigate purchases in a larger framework. These include: On this basis, in addition to what the representative of Restad informed us, that we have asked for a postponement of the project – a decision that has not been easy to make, but which I believe is well justified in the arguments put forward by the representative of Restad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2000	In the debate on the main lines of defence activity and development in the period 1992-2003, from which I referred, it may well be that the representative Godal put something else in what he said than what it is possible to perceive. I'm a little sorry about that, because it should be possible to understand what a case rapporteur and a major figure for a large party say. And he says, among other things, in relation to the MTBs and in the case of follow-up to that Decision: ‘Waiting beyond this can easily lead to the disappearance of Mandal production capacity, competence and jobs. It would be an accident for both the project and the region.» The accident has now obviously occurred, without the minister appearing to be so very alarming for that reason. This is the question of whether it is possible to argue in the same way as the Minister of Defense is now doing for some of the projects, for all the projects, on the basis that one needs to see the entire defence concept together. I understand that the defence minister suspects SV to have a different agenda than the government has, but I can assure you that what we say, that we want a defence, and that this defence should be based on the real threats in the future, is real. I also think I'm quite right in my claim from before, that if we had made a cut corresponding to what the government is now doing, it would not have been estimated at all. So the Council of State says that you've already decided in relation to the field of fire. I don't wonder very much about that, it was decided in 1972. Since then, this decision has been moved with varying reasons over time. But if one is to go to major changes in the Army, it means – at least on several occasions – a new defence concept that can actually both increase and decrease the need for a field of fire. It will at least depend very much on the weight of these activities, where the exercises should be. I will not continue to repeat that there are actually other solutions to this exercise need, which the Government has not yet been willing to look at. There are solutions that could save both money and the environment, and that it would make sense to look at in the broad context. It is quite right, as the minister says and writes, that here there will be a need to free up resources in order to have money to operate the defence concept that we come up with after the treatment in the various commissions, and when the long-term message is presented once to the next year. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence has indeed met SV in his argument in St.prp. No 58, and I hope he can follow the same reasoning regarding the other investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2014	The plans for the forthcoming frigate purchase have an impact, as far as I can see, on the current year's budget of between 800 and 900 million. kr. If you look at the long-term effect, it's a lot of billions, but if we stick to the current year, we're up close to 1 billion. What the government is doing in its proposals for the revised national budget in parallel to this is, as we see, to make proposals for cuts in the hospital sector of 540 million. kr on the equipment side and a number of other cuts in the millions class, in the psychiatry, for example, of 22 million. kr. A number of these issues were raised in the spontaneous Question Time today. I noticed the way the Minister of Finance answered it when the question went to purchase equipment abroad and how it would affect the Norwegian economy. Several times the Minister of Finance was involved in overheating the Norwegian economy and in the budget balance, at all words and expressions that we know only too well over the past few weeks. In this respect, I think the Minister of Finance has given a particularly interesting explanation as to why frigate purchases should be necessary. The Minister of Finance explained that these are repurchase agreements where the Norwegian interests will be safeguarded. But what the Minister of Finance argues about in other contexts is the danger of overheating the Norwegian economy. And if you have a kind of repurchase agreement with the purchase of frigates abroad that increases activity in the Norwegian economy, increases purchasing pressure, it would just help to be inflationary or create more overheating in the economy, while purchasing equipment abroad to Norwegian hospitals would have exactly the opposite effect. It would be interesting to hear the Minister of Defence's explanation of how frigate purchases should not affect the Norwegian economy just through their repurchase agreements, while equipment purchases abroad, which have no agreements that bind to increased activity in Norway, have a negative effect – for it was well known what the Minister of Finance explained to us earlier today. So I would have liked to have seen the Minister of Defense deepen this kind of economic relationship that I think is difficult for a lot of people in this room to understand, and that must be all the more difficult to understand for others, outside the Storting, who are listening to that kind of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2023	I'm sorry I haven't seen that, sir. The Enoch has been in the hall earlier today, but it helped significantly that he came into the light and spoke – it made it at least a little easier to understand. And if I had had contact lenses, it might have been better. So until what I want to get back to -- the central party's envelopment, which someone's been into before. I guess it's not that unnatural for the Center Party to do those kind of maneuvers. So the importance of this project has always been agreed upon, through all the treatment in the defence committee, through treatment in a government, and then suddenly something has happened, and then a lot of people wonder what happened to the Central Party after you got out of the government. You were part of this project, and the only new thing, as far as I can see, is that you've increased the framework to capture the uncertainty that the Center Party is so afraid of. And then it is said that “the entire project is under-budgeted” – according to Enoxsen’s contributions to the VG – “and can become a new investment scandal”. Was it not the case that the government in which Enoch was involved provided a budget for this which was much lower? And then there's good reason to ask, what's changed, and how could the Center Party go in for this while you were in government, but once you got out of the open air, it was completely impossible? There must be something that has been confined, and that has now in some way only appeared today. The maneuvers of the centre party are simply to be amazed at. It is basically a challenge – if Mr. The Enoch could clarify what is so crucially new. Is it that you suddenly got new information? Is it that everything we've built our defenses on, is now completely out of the picture? Is it such that frigate purchase is closely linked to the future structure? Or is it structurally independent? So it's been for the Center Party the whole time, so what really happened in the government? Was it so that Minister of Defense Løwer had done a bad job? Was it so that the Christian People's Party had been on a scheme that was irresponsible, while the Central Party had always been in government on the proper line, but so did the irresponsible come out? The incomprehensible could be easy to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2032	I very much appreciate Mr. Carl I. Hagen's commitment to defence policy, I think it might come along well, but at some other time. This is because we understand that we base larger purchases on events with 100 pst. Repurchasing, based on the reasoning that when we spend so much money on major projects as we do, on frigate projects and other projects, the Norwegian community, like all other communities, has said that we should have something left for it, by entering into parallel contracts that ensure that we also have repurchases in Norway for similar amounts. And so Hagen's main point of view really falls away. It is clear that as long as we are on this buy-back regime, there are no signs either from the Progress Party or other parties that we should refrain from doing so in connection with today's proposition, I would rather say the opposite. Then the representative Ballo and I heard today at the same finance minister. I think there are good reasons to say that different types of investment have different effects. But I still think it makes sense to treat them as frames under the individual minister, because we start to differentiate on the impact of different types of investment, we get into a budgetary mess. And there is almost no investment that is completely without effect in relation to the domestic economy, and even aid funds have 30-40 pst. effect directly into the Norwegian economy, and the effect of course is the follow-up to other types of investment. I would not have said that it is wrong to say that we need to give a different priority to obtaining the health costs and investments that are necessary, but then I think it is more sensible to do so within the framework that exists at all times, possibly expanding those frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2039	When I listen to the debate here today, with more or less successful attempts to chat with the Center Party, I get a feeling that the majority has a bad case. It's a bad thing for the majority, because it's not just the centre party that's on the point of postponing the purchase of frigates now until you get an opportunity to see the investments in connection with the discussion of the long-term announcement. This is supported by heavy professional environments, and Willoch and EU Ambassador Berg have also been mentioned. So it's a little bad that the Center Party isn't alone in this, and I understand that very well. In fact, it does not serve Norwegian defence interests that the debate we experience this spring is dominated by budgetary excesses and individual cases, often of a negative nature. It takes the attention away from the increasingly pressing need for a more comprehensive and forward-looking debate on the main issue: what kind of defence for what tasks? The time for a line change in the defence debate is far too late. It will be hoped that the investigations presented before the summer, the Defence Study 2000, the Defence Policy Survey report and the FFI's Defence Analysis will provide the basis for a more perspective-filled debate on the future structure of defence than we are now experiencing. The Stortinget also now has an excellent opportunity to put the defence debate into a more correct track after the frigate matter has again been caught through St.prp. No 48 on the billion excess on the frame for the purchase of new frigates. It is now about getting a serious and thorough balance between all major material investments, and not least the operating costs that come with them. It is therefore to hope that the Storting does not, through individual decisions, provide leadership to prevent a wide and prejudiced defence debate based on the investigations that are now on the stairs. For example, if the frigates are ordered before such a debate has taken place, there is a danger that both the defence and the politicians will later see the need to adapt the future to the frigates. It is such that frigate purchases can prove to be an investment and an operating cost increase that could make it impossible to achieve an optimal defence structure adapted to the needs and resources of the future. And that is not the Norwegian people, nor the Norwegian defence served in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2048	I would have thought that on the basis of the articles that, among other things, The representative of Gudmund Restad has held here earlier today, should be reasonably clear what was the reason for and the background that the Central Party has taken the difficult decision to turn on a matter that we have spent a long time preparing and standing behind for a long time. But I have nothing against repeating some of these arguments, so we're going to hope it gets heard this time. This project is the largest project in the history of Defence. It was estimated to cost a total of about 15 billion kroner. A lot now suggests that at least NOK 2 billion will be more expensive than expected. Operating costs were clarified at a relatively late stage. The increased operating costs will amount to approx. 460 million. kr per. years, and it is with respect that it is unclear what consequences this will have for the rest of the defence. We know that there were proposals for significant cuts in other areas within the Maritime Defense Department to cover the operation of the frigates. It is also the case that the Minister of Defence has already proposed to suspend the purchase and perhaps reconsider the acquisition of new fighter aircraft and MTBs, investments that were necessary for the defence to be made in a short time, and which also the Workers' Party in the debates in which they took part while they were in opposition, said that it was absolutely necessary to get done. Now you can see that it is not possible to obtain these investments during the time period that you had planned and within the framework that exists, and you have then chosen to postpone it. As is the case with ice-cream investments in new transport aircraft and armoured special vehicles. So it's not like that it's just the Center Party that has come to the conclusion that we should wait and see. In fact, I think it might have been wise for more people in this room to realize that there is no shame in turning around when there will be good reasons to turn around, that there is no such thing as a great achievement in relation to the Spanish authorities to postpone this contract for a year if, after an overall assessment, you find that it is nevertheless wise to make investments in five frigates. It might also be wise to have given the necessary time in this Chamber to see the overall defence investments and operations in the defence in the context, and to look at the consequences of this investment in relation to other absolutely necessary investments and operational tasks that I believe we will be going to have a very strong fight in a year's time in this Chamber to find room within the framework of defence. I look forward to that debate with pleasure, because I think we all need to have a thorough debate on what kind of defence we should have in the future. What we are doing today is putting in place an important and big piece in the future defence concept, which it will be impossible to reverse if we see that it does not fit into a future defence structure and also does not have the necessary space within the operational level that we can find at which time the long-term message is to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2057	The president of the Central Party and the parliamentary leader, Odd Roger Enoxen, now said that it was no shame to turn around if you had good reasons, and he spoke of ‘within the framework of defence’. Yes, what is the good reason for turning around? Is this the fact that the Norwegian State has received tens of billions of dollars in extraordinary income, which is the good reason why money needs to be extra careful now? On the contrary, if you want to stay within the framework, you have the opportunity to increase the framework. There is no problem, just as there is no problem with paying the extraordinary bills inherited by the Government from the previous government. It's just paying them, that! It doesn't have to mean cut in other areas, it's just paying. That's no problem! It's a political company's problem that you run and discuss here. So the Minister of Defense says that repurchase agreements make sense. Yes, I agree, and we've always accepted that, and we think it makes sense that when we buy big expensive things from abroad, we get an advantage. But when the activity and pressure in the Norwegian economy are used as a reason by the Government not to buy the fighter planes that you would otherwise buy, then there is a new situation. Then it's just the repurchase that in case creates pressure in the economy, to buy fighter planes as 100 pst. has been produced abroad, has no effect, except for the tiny bit which goes to the training of the pilots of their new aeroplane. When the government says that because there is pressure in the economy, we must not buy fighter aircraft, we say, "Drop rather the repurchase agreements." It must make more sense to buy what you have come to is reasonable to buy. That's the point. The Minister of Defence says that you get into a budgetary situation and have to take it within the framework or extend it. Yes, in addition, for this framework has been laid by some unknown people in the Ministry of Finance who do not see the difference between domestic and foreign purchases, and they have persuaded the Government not to go further and buy fighter aircraft. That's when we say, when the government doesn't understand such simple things, we have to do something else. And then we either have to increase the frame or say that this does not affect the Norwegian economy, and go to the purchase of them. And the defense minister in opposition was the leader, because in addition to fighter planes, they were also to buy MTBs, and he has created hopes in a small community. They actually thought that Bjørn Tore Godal was to trust, and that the Workers' Party was to trust. Now it turns out that despite the fact that we've gotten more money in the meantime, you don't buy this. Then you reduce the trust that a people must have in their rulers. What I think will eventually become the biggest problem of the labor party government, is that it more and more times shows that you can't take it seriously when it promises something.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2072	It was Odd Roger Enoksen's last post that made me take the floor. He must either have slept an hour or he has not come along, for he said that the increased operating costs were known relatively late. That's not true! I'm standing here with Innst. S. No 207 for 1998-99 as the Stortinget dealt with exactly one year ago, where the Committee states that: ‘The Committee has noted that the operation and maintenance of the new vessels will require an estimated 300 to 400 million. kroner more per person. year-on-year beyond the level of the day. The Committee assumes that efforts are being made to reduce these increases in costs and that this increase in operating costs is being covered as far as possible by changes and savings measures in the other structure of the Maritime Defence Agency.’;» And in that committee comment, the Center Party is in it!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2084	Odd Roger Enoxen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2087	What the representative Grethe Fossli now referred to is absolutely correct. The cost was one year ago estimated at 300-400 million. kr, and the message from Stortinget was: Go back to the government quarter and work to reduce these costs. What do we see today? The cost is now set at 460 million. kr! They're not reduced, so they've increased by an estimated 100-200 million. kr. I've recorded that Carl I. Hagen sees opportunities to spend more money in absolutely all areas. I would remind you that 1997 was the first year we had set aside for the oil fund, and that in 1998 we had oil prices of less than DKK 100 per year. But this year we have oil prices of NOK 275, and for the current year we have a staggering surplus on the state budget. But I have also recorded that Carl I. Hagen is constantly turning into a spokesman to remove income, and on the other hand, he sees no limitation whatsoever in relation to increased expenditure on the state budget and investment in all the good purposes of the world. I see Mr. Carl I. Hagen shaking his head, but the Progress Party programme is in favour of revenue reductions of up to DKK 100 billion per year. years. And if Carl I. Hagen is going to get ahead in the way he does, the oil fund will be exhausted in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2097	In this area, the Progress Party is in many ways the reverse of SV – here you have money for everything! Our starting point is another one. We must have a responsible budgeting. And when Carl I. Hagen says that then we'd rather drop the repurchase agreements, it's to introduce a completely new principle for dealing with such issues – unknown to the defence committee, not introduced either by the committee leader or other representatives of the Progress Party, probably because we would then cut our own industrial cooperation opportunities in the future in a completely radical way compared to what everyone else is doing, both in the NATO class and otherwise – that's what I don't take seriously so far. So the starting point is that we're missing NOK 10-15 billion in relation to the investment profile that we believed a year ago. And then we have planes that last 10-15 years. Then it was best to start there. But there is something different than the MTBs, where, in addition to the economic argument – because he has been against it for a long time – he also says that he believes that the MTBs may not defend their place in the defence structure in the future at all. He has not been close to saying the same about fighter planes or frigates. So it's a completely different discussion, and we must therefore – at least the government must – take inward all of the input that comes into the defense study in order to get a clarification of the future of the MTB weapon before we resolve the question of initiating this. So here one has to keep it a little bit from the other – in the name of honesty!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2106	Karin Andersen has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2109	The Minister of Defence now shows that there has been a gradual internal disagreement in the defence of where it is important to spend money. That's right, but this has been said for a long time from well-informed and well-updated sources. On 13 January 1999, Nils Holme, head of the Swedish Defence Research Institute, was interviewed in Today's Business. He said, ‘There is an unjustified optimism in the documents sent to Stortinget, disregarding a number of foreseeable costs.’ It's been fulfilled. He says that if you put the giant projects in place at the same time, it ends in an accident, and "The defense ends up without money for absolutely crucial investments". That reality has also gradually slipped in. And then he says, ‘Today we have a concept that will have in both bag and bag: a good invasion defense, high activity in international operations and other activities. We need to reconsider this concept." Amen, we can say from SV. The problem is you can't take this inward as a whole. Now, when the Minister of Defense says he's going to take over the input that comes into this debate, he's not doing it well in practical politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2124	Gudmund Restad has clearly stated in his articles and in his lines that the centre party has taken the position we have actually taken. It is therefore not necessary to address that argument further. When I take the word anyway, it is because it has been used so strong words and come so strong outcomes, among other things. against the Centre Party, that it requires a brief comment. Now, it's not just the Center Party that has taken this position; everyone in this room knows that there are also strong trade-military groupings that mean exactly the same thing as the Center Party. I have heard and recorded that it has been raided over the Central Party in this debate. We actually have some practice with that, so we don't take it too seriously in our head. But I have to say that I react strongly when the head of the defence committee comes running over the professional soldiers, as he has actually done here today. It's quite alarming, in my opinion, that the head of the Stortinge Defence Committee from the Stortinge pulpit almost degrades the officer in the Maritime Defense to pure lobbyists. I don't think it's happened in the past, that the head of this trade committee has been acting in such a way. I do not place so much emphasis on the fact that Røres Bjørn Hernæs has also ‘degraded’ the former head of the Defence Commission. There was no doubt that Bjørn Hernæs said in his post that Kåre Willoch's opinion on this matter would not be taken into account at all. He also mentioned the question of whether the centre party had been in the choir and applied for advice. I can say that there is actually a "kårkaler" from the Central Party in Stortinget today who has been involved in the decision-making process, but that is another matter. It has been said both by the head of the Central Party and by the parliamentary leader Odd Roger Enoksen and by the representative Gudmund Restad that this has been a difficult matter, a major, significant and difficult matter. But I have to say that when I heard the argument that parts of the majority have put themselves on today, I feel that today there is less doubt, and it is easier to live with this doubt after hearing the argument on the Great Britain's pulpit from parts of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2138	I cannot allow the broad side that came from Mr. Jakobsen, go completely unprovoked. So as for what I said in my post, I showed the reader's letter signed the Enoxsen in the VG, I referred to the three officers that were mentioned, and I said what I assumed was their armament. And then I said here we're in a situation in the defense where the situation itself implies that we have to fight about the funds, and that's what I meant by lobbyists, so that at least it's cleaned up. That other names have been mentioned here, both former ambassadors and others, may now be so, but I assume that you know who works for whom, at least in that context. It's not so strange that the defense's people actually end up in a fight about the few investment funds that are left, but it could, of course, also the Center Party and others take over. It's precisely because you're obviously involved in cutting down on the investment side that this situation arises. And it's not so very strange that the Army fights for its own, the Maritime Defense for its own and the Air Force for its own; it's a situation you can find in every other country. That you fight a little bit internally, well, that's unfortunate, but it tells you a little bit about that investment funds are now fighting for, and we see the result of that. Yes, it is absolutely legitimate to try to fight for the weapons you belong to if you think you have a good argument, it should just be lacking. But then one also has to take inward recognition that we have got such a situation that one actually has to run internal lobbyism in the Defense to try to elbow in the queue of unsolved projects. If the Center Party were to help you mitigate this a little bit, at least you'd stick to what you've been told to do, and make sure that you were allowed to remove investment funds of 500 million. kr out of the night, if supported by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2149	Johan J. Jakobsen was right to say that he did not pay so much attention to what I said, as the chair of the Defence Committee said. That, I think, is a straightforward gradation in a defence debate with the head of the defence committee. So that's okay. But I must be able to draw the conclusion that since I am honoured with a visit from the Greatness Chair, he places some emphasis on it anyway. And then I have to say quite briefly: it is not I who have drawn Kåre Willoch into the debate, it is with respect to report Gudmund Restad who has done, and as Johan J. Jakobsen has now repeated. What I said is that in the Right, today's big crowd is taking positions on difficult questions. Of course, that doesn't mean we don't listen to those we had to have from advisers both here and there. But as I said, in the Right, today's big group has taken a stand on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2156	I understand that my remark fell slightly to the head of the defense committee. And he has every reason to feel that way. I record that Røsjorde, the head of the committee, is now trying to tone down the reality in the outcome he had against the officers in the defense. I have to say that I am quite surprised that a trained parliamentarian and driven politician like Røsjorde does not feel and realize that degrading sea officers to ordinary lobbyists and almost denying these officers the professional competence goes unheeded by the integrity of these officers. He denies these officers any professional justification for his position. It gets so done, and I record that the representative Røsjord now fades down the significance of the strong words he had in a previous line change today. When it comes to the representative, Bjørn Hernæs, I can only say that as I experienced this matter and this dispute, it is quite right as Bjørn Hernæs says, that it was Gudmund Restad who brought the Head of the Defence Commission, Kåre Willoch, into the debate, but it was Bjørn Hernæs who swept him beyond the sideline.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2163	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2166	It is with amazement I observe that such an experienced parliamentarian as Johan J. Jakobsen chooses to defend legitimate attacks with fairy tales from the pulpit. The chairman of the Defence Committee, Hans J. Røsjorde, has not at all expressed such views as Mr. Jacobsen chooses to refer. What the chairman of the Defence Committee did was to say that he understood well the officers who, because of the majority of them, created narrow defence frameworks, felt that they had to try to secure their share of the defence budget and do their best to ensure that what they were working on also appeared. It's just to show respect for officers and to state that one understands that they are fighting for their share of too little defence budget, and that's the very opposite of the fairy tale that Mr. Jacobsen now tried, and which he certainly in vain is going to try again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2173	Johan J. Jakobsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2176	I'm not going to use for my benefit the fact that, unlike Carl I. Hagen, I have a one-minute post left, but I think we can finish this round with the following: I claim again what I said in my first post, that the chairman of the Defence Committee in his post or in a line change formulated himself so that, in my opinion, he "degraded" these officers from being officers to becoming ordinary lobbyists in the Stortinget. So Carl I. Hagen says this is fairy tale. But can we not do so in the very simple way that we control this against the record of this debate? I feel convinced that it is my interpretation of this exchange of views that is the correct one.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2182	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[Fotation, see p. 3374]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2195	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2264	During the debate Gudmund Restad put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Centre Party: ‘The final decision in the frigate case is deferred after the Grand Duchy’s treatment of the Long-term Report for Defence in the spring of 2001.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2296	During the debate Gudmund Restad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘All major investment projects in Defence are deferred after the Storting has dealt with the Long-term Communication for Defence in the spring of 2001.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-31.ana.ud904e2320	There is no record.
