ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e56	The representatives of Sylvia Brustad, Einar Olav Skogholt and Anne Helen Rui, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Nordic region: Hanne Dyveke Sweets Hagen For Oslo: Shahbaz Tariq For the Vestfold counties: Harald Solberg From 15 February to 17 February, an application for welfare leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Eirin Fallet. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Erling Brandsnes, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e99	Erling Brandsnes is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e104	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e109	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e114	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and the Kjell Engebretsen shall be deemed unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e131	Almost three years ago, the government of Jagland presented the transport plans on the basis laid down in St.meld. No 32 for 1995-96, on the basis of transport policy, road, air, port and rail plans for the ten-year period 1998-2007. We knew that we did not have a majority for the submitted plans, and we strongly suspected that the representatives of the parties from the Right, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party would not be able to agree on the financing of their huge addition proposals. We now know the reality. The result so far is 1 billion less than the government of Jagland's proposals. The basis for road safety at the time was: ‘In its policy, the government attaches great importance to measures that can help to reduce the risk of road accidents to land, water and air. Both actions related to each mode of transport will be important in this context.» [[driver/manning training, regulation design, information, control systems, etc.]] That's what you said in St.meld. No 32 for 1995-96, and that was probably what the long-term messages were built on, the ones that were dealt with in the Stortinget year after. With all the accidents we have experienced in recent times, it must be allowed to ask: have we placed enough emphasis on safety regarding the investments made up to now, and should we make other choices if we want to change the pattern of accidents? It concerns our priorities both to land, to water and in the air. In the railway sector, we know that the start of traffic with the new tiltogens will require and have required investments in the lines, not least in terms of securing level crossings. I have recorded that the Railway Agency itself now wants to give priority to the work on securing level crossings before new investments are made. It is a right priority if safety is to be improved. Similarly, the work on signalling systems and automatic train stops should be carried out on the remaining lines. I assume that the Council of State agrees with this. Proposals for a national transport plan state that for the railway, the aim is to maintain and further develop the established level of safety in a positive direction. Changes resulting in reduced safety are not accepted. As far as I can understand, you go into the planning period of the National Transport Plan to reduce the base framework for the railway, and I can't understand it any other way than that this will also go beyond the priority tasks for improving safety and the challenges you're facing. As far as water safety is concerned, the situation here as in the latter sector is despite the fact that there is a proposal for an increased framework. With a preliminary estimated need for, inter alia: Fairway measures of NOK 1-1.5 billion will only be 30-50 pst. of the projects could be realised during the planning period, and then we're talking about a planning period until 2011. I ask myself, is this to prioritize security? The ‘Sleipner’ accident shows us how important it is with the proper marking of the speedboat manager and the new marking of the traffic controller. So a few figures for investment in the road sector: in the proposal for a national transport plan, investment in the road sector is reduced by DKK 6 billion over the period 1998-2007 and reduced by DKK 16 billion over the period 1990-93. The proposal for a national transport plan aims at reducing the number of fatalities to less than 200 by 2012. Of this, approx. 190 people perish on our behalf every year. But then it goes on to read: ‘We are unable to achieve this with the resources and instruments we have been able to prioritise within the given planning framework. The measures in the recommended strategy will reduce the forecast of the number of fatalities with around 55 and the number of injuries with around 1500. This means that the number of persons killed will fall slightly." It is also stated in the proposal for a national transport plan that accidents in domestic transport for the years 1995-98 averaged 320 lives per year and that around 300 of these are caused by road traffic accidents. In fact, this means that in the period 2002-2011, within the proposed framework, we can expect to 2 500 people will lose their lives on our behalf. I stress that it is a very low estimated number I have given. This can't be acceptable – or is it? Are we about to accept the accidents on the roads as an inevitable evil, or are we looking at accidents on the roads with completely different eyes than we do in other accidents that affect society? We know what measures would have helped significantly. We know that increased police surveillance reduces the risk of accidents. We saw that increased control in Westfold in the summer reduced the accidents. We also know that there is a correlation between the road standard and the number of road accidents. For example, the risk of being killed or seriously injured is: Almost 30 times higher on the E18 in East Agder than on the E18 between Oslo and Drammen, which has significantly better road standards. Several investments in the road sector can be repaid to society in terms of reduced damage during the first year of the investment. The country's annual revenues from car-related taxes are about NOK 37.5 billion. In 1999, we used approx. NOK 15.5 billion for road purposes on our highways, county roads and municipal roads. The Ministry of Finance reports that for 1999 gross domestic product is about NOK 1 100 billion and that the growth in GDP is estimated to be 0.9 pst. The Transport Economic Institute estimates that traffic accidents cost Norway approx. 25 billion dollars a year, and that amounts to approx. 2.3 pst. GDP. This year alone, traffic accidents cost us more than two and a half times the growth in Norway. Let me say: it must be a bad deal to take in NOK 37.5 billion from car-related charges, and then lose NOK 25 billion from traffic accidents. TØI has conducted a large study showing which measures can reduce the accidents. It is possible to reduce the loss of human life; it is possible to reduce the loss of society in the event of accidents, if we want to. In fact, it is possible to continue the measures we have today and reduce the number of accidents within today's economic framework, but reductions in the billions class will be impossible, as proposed in the National Transport Plan. Policies are priorities. I know that, and it's hard, but we can't keep pushing the problems in the transport sector in front of us anymore. We cannot discharge our responsibilities, because it is the politicians who decide. We are the ones who ultimately have to take responsibility for reducing the accidents. That's not the money we need. It must not be the case that, in the event of inflation and increased interest rates, we will not invest in road safety, decent roads, etc. It's immoral in my eyes. I take up again my question to the Council of State: what will he do to reduce the accidents, the loss of human life and the loss of society in connection with accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e171	Let me first say that one lost human life in traffic is one lost human life too much. In the last decade, traffic has on average claimed about 320 lives each year. Of these, an average of more than 300 are killed per year in road traffic accidents. While road traffic accidents are characterised by many accidents with few injuries or fatalities in each accident, the situation of trains, aircraft and ships is such that if an accident occurs first, it often causes a greater number of injuries and deaths. Accidents and accidents involving different types of means of transport have different chances of occurring and different consequences when they occur. For collective means of transport, such as trains, aircraft, ferries, buses, the likelihood of an accident is low, but the consequences may be large when an accident occurs. The average number of deaths and injuries to these means of transport has been very low in recent years, but as we have experienced recently, tragic individual accidents can make a huge impact on these figures. For private means of transport, such as car, recreational boat, private flight, bicycle, moped, mc, and for pedestrians, the likelihood of being accidentally exposed is significantly higher. Most of these accidents only cause material damage, but nevertheless they are reported among others. about 8 500-9 000 road accidents involving personal injury to the police every year. In the national transport plan 2002-2011, which is to be submitted to the Storting in the current session, the Government will take into account a vision that accidents with fatal or life-long injuries will not occur in traffic. This means that, in particular for the road sector, a new approach to safety issues will be required, with a stronger focus on the serious accidents. In the other sectors, similar objectives for regular services have been pursued for a long time. The starting point for such a vision is the recognition that accidents and accidents will always be possible, but their serious consequences must be prevented. In this context, public authorities have a clear responsibility to improve safety through the planning and design of traffic systems and to regulate and monitor the actions of road users. However, users of transport systems also have a clear responsibility for safe and negligent behaviour in traffic. This behaviour must be based on the laws and regulations laid down for the different traffic systems. They are also responsible for providing feedback to the authorities if the systems do not comply with the applicable standard requirements. These accidents related to transport activities, as pointed out by the representative Blattmann, involve considerable costs to society. This is linked, for example, to: for medical costs, production failures, material costs, administrative costs and welfare losses for damage and relatives. On the basis of estimates by the Transport Economic Institute, the Directorate-General for Road Transport assessed the socio-economic costs of road traffic accidents at an annual rate of approximately DKK 25 billion, as already mentioned. However, such assessments and calculations are uncertain, and there are also aspects of accidents that are difficult to measure in crowns and ears. All investment and operation of transport systems have built-in safety requirements. The nature of the roads and their safety requirements are designed on the basis of the Road Code. Traffic on the road network and vehicle requirements and driver is regulated by the Road Traffic Act. Railway operations must comply with the requirements of railway legislation and deal with, inter alia: Road, traffic management and rolling stock. Investments in aviation infrastructure must comply with rules and regulations for runways and instrumentation for safe operation. Safety requirements also include transport equipment and equipment. In the maritime sector, the Norwegian rules on maritime safety are based on the navigability law, the navigability law and a number of other laws, as well as international conventions ratified by Norway. However, the use of infrastructure and means of transport can never be completely safety-free. It is a fact that individual, private transport regardless of means of transport is at higher risk than means of transport used in collective and professional transport. Means of transport with relatively open access for individual use are most at risk of accident. This applies to road traffic, sea and aviation. This must be an important factor in the action to be taken against road accidents, both in terms of infrastructure, means of transport and towards road users. The government has taken into account its safety work that the use of resources should be deployed in areas where the greatest accident-reducing effect can be expected. This applies both in each sector and across the transport sectors. In order to improve the basis for this type of balancing, new and up-to-date knowledge on the impact of the different measures will be sought. The number of injuries and deaths caused by road accidents is significantly higher in road transport than in other modes of transport. There are several reasons for this. The road transport system is essentially a system of individual transport, while the other modes of transport are primarily collective modes of transport with professional operators. Furthermore, the number of road users is significantly higher in the road transport system than in the other modes of transport. The causes of accidents are many and measures to reduce the number of accidents need to be implemented in a number of areas. In order to follow up the intention behind the zero vision, the Ministry will in the future give priority to action against fatal and serious injuries. Here, the reduction in the number of meeting accidents, road accidents and accidents involving vulnerable road users will be central. Such a reduction would require a combination of different measures: physical measures on the road network, behavioural measures, training and control. The evidence from the major accidents involving collective means of transport, whether due to technical or operational safety deficiencies, does not provide a clear pattern of causality. It is therefore necessary to address the causes of individual accidents, near-accidents and incidents in order to prevent accidents. The aim is to improve the quality assurance system and to capture deviations before an accident occurs. Accidental studies and their follow-up are of great importance in this context. All accident investigations are intended to increase the knowledge of causes of accidents in order to use this knowledge to avoid future accidents. Thus, accident investigations have a different starting point and purpose than any police investigation, which should also reveal blame and responsibility. In order to obtain the best possible information in accident investigations, it is important that the two different roles be kept separate in accordance with established legal rules. Aviation is the only transport sector with a fixed and independent accident investigation body. The Civil Aviation Disaster Commission is organised as its own administrative body under the Ministry of Transport and is responsible for investigating aviation accidents and incidents. On the basis of the studies, the Commission shall make recommendations to the authorities. As a follow-up to Storting’s decision in the spring of 1997, multi-disciplinary accident analysis groups have been established for road traffic in different parts of the country. These groups will carry out in-depth analyses of different types of accidents and thereby provide increased knowledge and understanding of the background of road accidents. The guidelines for the work and organisation of these groups, in order to avoid a mix of roles, have been developed in cooperation with police and prosecution authorities. The other modes of transport do not have fixed accident groups. The issue of the establishment of an accident commission on the railway sector was discussed in the context of the submission of new railway legislation in 1993. The Government will carry out an assessment of the future structure and organisation of the different investigation commissions, including questions of a joint accident commission for some of the transport sectors. With regard to more concrete plans for action and instruments in the various transport sectors, the Government will present this in detail in the key communication on the national transport plan. However, I would already like to stress that the Government of this plan will place considerable emphasis on enhancing traffic safety. I would like to highlight below that the Ministry of Transport, in conjunction with the submission of the National Transport Plan, will present an action plan on road safety, a national road safety plan, and this will be a separate part of the national transport plan. In a later article, I would like to come back with further clarification of the tools that will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e213	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He says that the national transport plan to be submitted will place considerable emphasis on improving the safety of transport. Then I assume that we can't do it with the resources you've suggested to be guiding for the next decade – that is, starting with a resource framework of 6 billion kroner less than the one we have today. The Council of State talked about this with the zero vision. I don't think it's enough just to have visions and goals. I actually think there's more resources we need, if we're going to get this done. And then I want to say that for a long time, those states that represent South Africa have suffered from a lack of tribal investment. The poor road standard and the many deaths and serious accidents that we have had along the E18 and E39 have resulted in drivers actually being afraid to drive out on the road – not to mention the soft road users, who have no alternative over long distances. We know, of course, that even with unlimited financial resources it will take many years for satisfactory road construction to be completed, and that is something that the continent will obviously suffer painfully from. We therefore now expect the Council of State to ensure that adequate appropriations are adopted for the treatment of the national transport plan which, together with our own national contribution in the form of tolls, can facilitate the fastest possible development of the priority routes. Can the Council of State imagine taking out the most trafficked routes in the most heavily hit by traffic accidents and deaths in traffic, giving these states special attention?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e222	As I mentioned earlier in this Chamber, my starting point for the National Transport Plan, which will be presented to the Stortinget in a few weeks, is that road safety should be at the bottom – that is the starting point for priorities. Within the framework available at all times, priority shall be given to road safety in air, sea, road and rail. So ask the interpellant: is there enough vision? No, it's not. But you have to have a vision to act, and the vision is that we're going down with the accidents in traffic, we're going down with the fatal accidents – we're going to have a vision that it's going to be zero-killed and life-long damage. We have used the year 2030 as the starting point for vision; we have a goal to work against. For me, it's an ethical question that we increasingly seem to accept the number of fatalities in car traffic. How is it possible that we can only record one killed, plus one killed, plus one killed without acting? That's our challenge. When the major accidents happen, we gather as a nation, then we act, then we act, then we sit down investigating commissions – and that's important and correct. But I'm concerned about the individual accidents, where there are others left who don't get any support, who don't get any support, and who don't get any follow-up either. When you add this up over a year, there'll be hundreds. Is it ethically sound not to focus more strongly on it? I am therefore prepared to use the resources, including in the case of investments, in such a way that we can bring down the fatal accidents and accidents of a serious nature. I mentioned this a moment ago with the Commission on the railway side that was assessed in 1993. It is probably right for me to add that it was concluded in this connection that, in the light of a few accidents, it was not advisable to establish such a commission in relation to the administrative and cost aspects of the case. The issue of the investigation of marine casualties has recently been the subject of an assessment by the Maritime Committee’s work on the Ministry of Justice. The Committee enters into force in 1999: 30 in order to establish a marine casualty commission. I mention this in particular in the follow-up response because in the various transport areas we have to take a roof, we have to do something. We will examine, not for our own part, but to learn from this in future contexts, to gain experience and to prevent new accidents from happening – and thus to deploy resources in the most appropriate place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e235	It's an important interpellation that Blattmann's representative is travelling here today. I want to use my post to talk about accidents on the road network, and especially on the South. Accidents are caused by at least three factors: the driver, the car and the road. It is perhaps the driver's attitude, reaction patterns and perception that could have given the best result through information, but at the same time, human behaviour is difficult to change. It is therefore important that police and car surveillance keep a high standard of control of cars and drivers. What's becoming more and more clear is that the standard of our tribal roads doesn't keep track of today's traffic. Norway’s main transport corridor Oslo–Stavanger — and of that road there is 40pst. in Agder – the standard is so bad and the accidents are so serious that sensible southerners are now protesting at road standards and fatal accidents that are so severe. In 1999, 39 people were killed, and the number of very serious injuries is more than twice as high as on other tribal routes. It's probably no coincidence that the road standard in East Agder is half as satisfactory as that on other tribal roads, and so you have twice as high a number of accidents. Yesterday there was a new tragic fatal accident at the E18 in East Agder. Two people were unfortunately killed and three severely injured. This cannot continue. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport have operated the E18 and the E39, and have recognised the need for development in the South. Local politicians have now merged on the project Better tribal road in the South. A signing campaign shows great excitement, not only from motorists, but from southerners who want to fight the fatal accidents. Austria-Agder has also taken steps to apply for toll financing, even if this becomes an additional tax for its citizens. It's a fact that there's 30 times greater risk of being killed at E18 in East Agder than at E18 in Oslo and Akershus. I am therefore of the opinion that we grant too little money for road construction in Norway today. Finally, a question to the Minister for Transport: Is the South’s road standard and accident of such a nature that, after the Minister for Transport’s assessment, there should be an additional lift in the Norwegian transport plan, in addition to that of other parts of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e248	This important interpellation of accidents, including road accidents, could hardly be more tragic. So yesterday it happened again, a front collision on the E18 at Riser in East Agder, another two people died and three were injured. It's here in the paper, and it shows how dramatic what's now happening on the roads in Agder is really. And just E18 in Agder has become one of the country's worst ways of death, but nothing that really monasteries, has been done so far. For many years I have lived close to what I would call the "way of death", the E18 in Agder. And it's been a long time since I stopped counting the fatal accidents on the few kilometers of E18 that go past my own place of residence. Only in my childhood's small hometown, Rygene, which has only a few hundred inhabitants and which is close to the E18 between Arendal and Grimstad, have nine, or ten, young people killed in traffic accidents only in the last 10-15 years. On September 18, 1998, the church in my small home built was filled to the brink of mourning. It was a funeral, and a 16-year-old girl in my own family was buried in the ground. And certainly the entire village was gathered to take a last farewell with a peek youth who was torn away before she grew up. Jenta died in a brutal and senseless traffic accident at the E18 at Grimstad, and had probably become a number in a grotesque and unbelievably long death statistics in this county. And less than nine months later, on July 9, 1999, I'm left in the same cemetery in my old little hometown. An 18-year-old girl this time, the daughter of an old friend, was taken to the last rest in the same cemetery in the small village of Rygene at Arendal. She's no. 10 in the number of young people killed in road accidents only from this small village of Smoking in the last 10-15 years. In 1998, 22 people were killed on the roads in East Agder, in 1999 20 people, and so far two people. How in all the world can we in this country accept that this happens without doing anything that really monks? I know that the head of the Agderrådet, Jan Helland-Olsen from the Workers' Party, said the following last December: ‘Now the central authorities must understand that the bad roads in Agder contribute to fatal accidents on E18...’» I share this view, and I am convinced that a better road standard is among the most effective measures to significantly reduce accidents on this road and other roads in our country. And in my view, it's a shame that traffic death is not being sacrificed more attention by responsible authorities, in a country that has resources more than enough to really do something about this social probe no. 1 in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e266	The major accidents in recent times, both at sea and in connection with the railway, do something with us all. It's an important area that the interpellant takes up today, and I think she had a busy and good post here at the beginning. It is tragic that 300 people were killed in traffic on the roads last year, and it is tragic for the families standing around. And in addition, we have all of the people who are left without, and those who are around these again. There are so many who are affected by the accidents that happen on the roads. That's why I think the vision of zero killed, on which the Council of State was in, is what we need, and we have to keep it high. I am pleased that the Government will work actively for road safety measures: race protection, reduced speed limits, more police, per mille limit – it costs relatively little and has effect. The Council of State has today also said that he will present his own road safety plan in the national transport plan, and I am very pleased about that. He has said that the resources should be inserted where they get the most power, and it sounds reasonable. The government and the Christian People's Party must keep a high profile. They're doing it, they're going to do it, and they're going to have to do it on these questions in the future. The Council of State also said that he will take different measures, he will give priority to action against accidents and deploy resources to avoid fatal and serious harm. It is also very important to remember the user's own responsibilities. I believe that we, as road users, must be involved and build good attitudes in traffic, we must show in practice that we take these things seriously and teach our children – those who come after us – a good culture of traffic. It's about training, it's about attitudes and how we think. I finally want to say something about the situation in Agder. The number of accidents on the tribal roads in the Agder counties is twice as high as elsewhere in the country. And in terms of the standard on the tribal road through Agder, it's significantly below the national average. We need funds in Agder for a better way. Accidents on the roads in Agder have to go down. The Lister package and the E39 which are now part of the proposal for a national transport plan must be retained. We need more funds to repair the roads to avoid accidents at E39 in East Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e281	Since the members of the Committee on Transport are on the move, the others have to take over in the inter-pelling debate. You can never guard 100 pst. against accidents — on the road as on the rail, on the sea as in the air. But it's possible to minimize the possibilities that accidents happen far more than we've done up to today. The need to highlight road safety is high and will continue to be so. We don't want to accept all of the car accidents that happen on the road, and that you have little attention to it. But you also have to look at the traffic scene on the roads. It is in many places very unyielding and sometimes confusing to the drivers. On a common highway, even on the roads with a European road status, heavy carriages, school buses, tourist buses, walking with baby carriages, people who air dogs, motorists who are not used to having caravans on trailers, cyclists, motorcyclists with the gas at the bottom – so it is no wonder that accidents occur. The right has repeatedly pointed out the growing imbalance between traffic operations and government appropriations. And there's a connection between accidents and road standards and separating road traffic. This is the new E6 that goes from Eastfold's border through Akershus, a good proof of that. Since that road was opened, there has not been a single serious accident there. Traffic is separated, and there are separate roads, and there is enough evidence that by good road standards, road accidents can be avoided. Monitoring from the police patrols went right into the brink for and granted extra funds to the revised national budget last year. We'll do the same thing this year. It is important that the police are on the road during the most busy times, so you can see that traffic is being monitored. Now there are the same tragic accidents at E18 in the South that have occurred in Westfold and E6 in Eastfold for a long time. That doesn't allow enough money. Why do the Eastern folds now seem to be in favour of toll financing? - Yes, simply because they can't cope with more tragic traffic accidents. There must be a failure statement from the Government when you cannot maintain the level of appropriations for the period, as you agreed. You also have to look at how you spend the money you have. Now we've spent 55 million. kr on a boat register for no use in the world. What could we have done with the 55 million? kr instead? We could, for example, keep a mark on the fairways along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e294	It is an important and serious matter that we are now dealing with. I myself have mentioned a matter in this letter to the Council of State, which concerns the future and security of the Røros Railway. The inter-pellant, Aud Blattmann, is talking about greater resources, and I agree with that. But we don't have to be so belligerent that we can't admit that several of us may have made mistakes here, and that there are some things we have little reason to be proud of. Among other things, we had a proposal for a few years back on a larger allocation to increase the safety of the Røros Railway. It did not get the majority then, nor was it followed up later, so that no one can jewelry himself with that matter in particular. We take too little account of security, including security in the development of a more forward-looking and timely communication system. As users of our road and transport system, we all have a desire for a secure system, the fastest possible system and the cheapest possible system. And there are questions as to whether Professor Jan Hovden, who is a professor of safety management at NTNU, is right when he says the following in a note I have received, which is apparently based on an interview in the world's time: ‘Norwegian society has entered a barrel and drive period. Time pressure and profit I threaten security.’ And it's a question of tiltogenics, whether the speedboats and large and fast cars may not be safe and safe enough in that context. I think, for example, that the maritime effort, which has been mentioned here, must be accompanied by safer traffic controllers. I also believe that we need to make sure that we are safe by securing the road and ensuring level crossings, and, as a former Minister of Transport has said, that is also a question of pucks and sleepers. So it's a question of whether the railway is good enough for what just goes faster and faster on this railway. It must also be an overall objective that part of the safety framework in the field of transport is now to ensure that more of the traffic, not least heavy traffic, is transferred from road to rail, and I mean a safe railway. I think we have a lot of challenges here, and I hope that we can come to more agreed decisions and conclusions on the national transport plan, that this is something we need to give a much stronger priority to the future and bet on, if we are to be able to put our entire long-range country into use in a proper and safe way in terms of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e310	When the Minister for Transport, Mr Färvoll, warns of a zero vision for fatal accidents on the road, it is a dramatic proposal, which must be followed up with very controversial instruments. Let's just realize that when we join that vision. I have no faith, as several speakers before me have stated, that the great solution is just to build more and better roads, although I see that on some road sections separation of traffic is an important tool. But we can't help but say that this is about what kind of restrictions we want to accept for our own driving. When the 70 km speed limit was applied to the E18 through Westfold, along with systematic control over the distance, the number of accidents was reduced to zero. That means that each of us has to be set to drive at a lower speed than what we're doing today, if one is actually going to have a zero in the future. In fact, if each of us just keeps the speed limits, then the number of fatal accidents goes down to half. So uncomfortable is this. It's really strange that there hasn't been much greater political pressure in a case where the number of traffic accidents kills ten school classes every year, and many more people get hurt and experience catastrophic events that characterize them for life. I think it is bold and courageous of Springvoll to put a zero vision for fatal accidents on the roads, and I hope that, in majority, we will manage and dare to follow up. So there were some single problems. It is very important to have an overall perspective on transport safety. It's e.g. it is unwise to allow the railway to continue in the framework of such small budgets as it is now and to scrape the means available to take certain security measures. The big challenge for greater safety in transport is to get more of us to take trains and leave the car standing. Most human lives are saved. But then you have to have a vision for the railway that makes us get there quickly, okay and quickly and within the deadlines we want. So here it is very important that the national transport plan takes a holistic view of what is the safety approach in the transport sector, and that there are no barriers where some safety measures are concerned with the individual types of transport, but where the whole transport sector is seen in the context. I congratulate Mr. Färvoll on a bold vision, and I expect that there may be a lot of speculation about the instruments that must result from such a vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e322	I would like to thank Aud Blattmann for bringing up the interpellation that we are now discussing, because it is a huge problem. As we talk, people around in our long-range country die. In Westfold it has now been working for a number of years with a new E18. But while the work has been in progress, 138 people were injured in traffic in Westfold only in 1999, 23 of them were killed. In my home municipality, Larvik, 80 accidents occurred last year, four fatal accidents. And on a road that's used as a road for E18 -- a road map that's only two miles -- we lost two young girls, both under 30, and a child under one year of age, and his mother's probably never going to wake up as she was before the accident. These three accidents occurred on the smooth lead. Everyone who lives there knows that it is smooth here when it is possible to be smooth, but those who were not known and came across the swings did not know it. In January of this year, two more were killed. These tragic events are referred to in the newspapers one day, maybe the next day, and then it's just statistics. But for those who are involved, these people are as inalienable as everyone else. It's just as bad, just as incomprehensible and incredibly unfair – just as it is in all other accidents where human lives are lost. The problem must be taken seriously. Human life and health must now be given priority. The speed limit was reduced to 70 km at the E18 in Westfold. It wasn't one accident, and people thought that now you had learned. You didn't, because the only thing that did not happen to an accident was massive police control. It was that you almost drove from a police car to a police car, or you had the police on the way in front of you or behind you. Then we managed to keep the number of accidents down. I'm very happy that roads are being built, but can't we try to get more police out on the road while they're being built. In addition, I am terribly disappointed that the trial project with police helicopters that we started, and that we were only doing for a year and a half, was stopped by the Government. It was actually one of the things we could have used to hang over the rough riders on the E18, so we might have held them back, so they didn't go too slow for them to get out of the queue and hit another one in the middle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e333	Yes, the vision of Fjærvoll is quite bold in view of the goal he has set, that by 2030 we will be down to zero in the case of road fatalities. But I agree that a Christian People's Party politician must have a vision and must look forward. But it's not only useful to look forward if you don't have the necessary tools, namely, that you have a financial framework that allows you to correct the particularly vulnerable, whether racial, or poor roads with regard to the standard that they don't have, but that they should have. Otherwise, I think this interpellation is involved in showing that the Storting has an involvement in these matters. But I think we're making a mistake if we just focus on what we're from. I think we need to see this in a national context, and we do that in a national transport plan. What is important is to look at accident statistics, look at the number of vehicles moving on the roads, and see what investments you can make to improve road safety. So I agree that we're going to have an overall assessment of this, and I'm convinced that the Council of State is going to provide a good basis for discussion in the Storting, and then it's going to be up to the Storing to define the final framework. But I refuse to believe that the government of Bondevik has to go on such a case or ask cabinet questions about getting the frames up to the road. I don't think it's a good thing, and I don't think the Storting is prepared to do it either. So a little bit to what's going on. Clearly, we have major challenges with regard to the NSB, and the railway system in particular, and not just with regard to the accidents that have occurred in recent times. I am concerned about the attitude that is seen in the management of the Railway Agency, which still forgets that they have not done the necessary priorities, and almost blames those who travel daily on the trains, whether conductors or others who are responsible for the train lines. In this regard, I believe that the Council of State, when assessing the instruments, should definitely consider whether it is not time for any action to be taken at the Railway Agency, and I think at a very high level. Because after the tragic accidents that have occurred, it has been shown that we do not trust the Railway Agency in the way they have dealt with and handled this. It's simply unprofessional. When such accidents occur, they must be dealt with professionally. That's the safety of the sea. We've had interviews before about safety at sea. We have recently had a case that goes to the casualty service. I think it is also important in terms of safety at sea, that we have coordination between the individual departments that have a primary responsibility in many different areas. And I think that has to be followed up, whether it's at sea or it's in the air. I think the government has a lot to pick up by coordinating the work much better, which doesn't cost that much money. I believe that the accidents of the last and the review to date by the Council of State have shown that there is a need for better coordination, and to get a department that has the full and complete responsibility in these areas. So I'm looking forward to the follow-up. I just want to remind the Council of State that when the road accidents cost $25 billion [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e344	Time's up. The President is asking for respect for speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e347	The Christian People's Party aims to avoid accidents on land or at sea. Therefore, the Government has given priority to road safety. Several measures have been promoted to prevent accidents. The last proposal is to reduce the per million limit from 0.5 to 0.2. Still more people respect the fact that alcohol and driving do not belong together, so I hope that it will be a majority for the proposal. The prohibition of using mobile telephones that are not fixed is also a good measure. The government has prioritised increased maintenance of our roads. Good snowfall at this time of year provides better safety. Last summer, trials were made at a lower speed limit. Experience shows that accident rates went down most where control increased. Traffic safety work is a lot about attitudes. Last year, in East Agder, an action called ‘Congestion against Traffic Death’ was carried out at the highest class stages. In addition, the control of seat belt use, speed and per mill increased. The county has continuous road lights throughout the county. After these have arrived, night accidents have been reduced, as have game accidents. Despite this, East-Agder tops the statistics on the number of fatalities and serious injuries in traffic. The accident load is almost twice as high as the national average. The same route has the highest traffic growth in Norway. Unfortunately, road standards are the worst in the country. The proportion with satisfactory road standard is only half of the national average. My own bombing company is formed, and now the southerners are impatiently waiting for a clear signal. The toll project proposes immediate measures that will improve road safety. The impatience is also the end of expectations of the national transport plan. No part of the country gets so little money compared to the population. A sum of 36 million. kr per. years to East-Agder doesn't look like the 250 million. have been calculated as an additional cost of transport and traffic accidents per year. years. Last weekend there was a major signing campaign for increased state funds for the tribal road in the Agder counties. The next Tuesday these will be delivered in Oslo. A large delegation from business, shipping, higher education and politicians will stress that now it is the South that needs to be prioritised. Rapid deployment will reduce the level of accidents, reduce transport costs and solve environmental problems. It will bring great benefits to the well-being of both us who live there permanently, and those who visit or travel through our beautiful part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e366	I dare to interfere a little with this southern debate. It's an important interpellation, which concerns accidents both on the road and on the sea, and it's important for the whole country. And I have to say that having a zero is bold, that's what I agree with. It will require a great deal of all of us when it comes to Stortinget, in order to put into place what needs to be done if we are to fulfill the vision that the Council of State has warned him to join the National Transport Plan. It's that none of us accept any fatal accident, it's quite clear. But we have to do something. And if we're some people about maybe a vision, some people say that we don't accept fatal accidents, it's 320 people every year losing their lives. We also know a lot that there is a connection between the road standard, for example. and the number of accidents. That's why it's also about money as well as other things that we have to do, and then we're actually talking about increasing the chances of our entire transport sector. I also want to bring a little bit of our lease. We know, in fact, that a few years ago, there were warnings in the budget about what could happen if we didn't do anything about marking the lighthouse. Then we cut off the vows, and then the dramatic accident happened with the "Sleipner". Money has returned to the budget, and it is hoped to prevent future accidents. But I think it's important that we have the security in focus. And I also think that we have to look at it over time, as someone was about to, that everything should go so fast, everything should be so fast, and our boats should be made so much that it should almost not be shown again that they are going to the sea. We also need to make sure that there is security attached to all these innovations. We have to take that seriously. It is clear that an action plan is important. I also think it is important that we now get an overview of the safety of our transport sector. We have accident commissions in retrospect, but we have to get an overview of what needs to be done in the different sectors, and then we have to implement it. I have to say that having a zero vision is okay. But in that time perspective, that is, by 2020, there are many lives that are going to be lost, which we cannot accept. That's why we need to focus on the security of people, so that they can feel that everyday life they can be safely alerted when it comes to transportation. Then it is important to give priority, and I would at least warn you that it should be slightly lubricated because one should take care of everything. Now one has to see where we have the major accidents, and give priority there first.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e381	There has been such an interesting debate, and although it has been south-eastern, I nevertheless believe that more people have addressed more national concerns and issues. Kristin Halvorsen praised the council of state for the zero vision, and thought it was bold. At least I can recommend Kristin Halvorsen to read TØI's report on zero vision and costs. It would be heavenly if we got to the zero vision, but it's actually so expensive that I think it's going to be rabid. But I have nothing against the vision, but TØI's report clearly shows that it is the most expensive thing to go in for. Woie Duesund claims that we have prioritised security. We might have done that, at least let's agree on one thing: it hasn't been enough bet, otherwise we would have actually had fewer accidents. Governments asked whether we were looking at road accidents with other eyes than we are looking at social accidents in other sectors. I actually think we do. They come in one by one, and then they're forgotten. However, there are 300 people who lose their lives on the roads in Norway, so there are too many. The council said in a reply to Myrvoll some time ago that he had to deal with 300 deaths per year on the road network. Let me stress that I don't want to relate to a number like that, because we are politicians and the political authorities who are responsible for doing something about it, and then you shouldn't be dealing with it, then you're going to do something about it. And I want to repeat what I said in the introduction: politics is giving priority. I know it's hard, but we can't push these problems in front of us anymore. We are responsible for doing something about it; we are responsible for providing adequate frameworks for action to reduce the loss of life. And I want to repeat the question I asked: can the Council of State imagine taking out the most dangerous routes in the states that are hardest hit by traffic accidents and deaths, and giving these a special attention?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e394	This has been an important interpellation, and many useful and important input have been made in the debate. I'll bring it back again, and I'll follow it up. It means, in other words, that I can also answer the last question, that I will look specifically at the most unfortunate areas in order to use our efforts there. So it's been asked, is the situation in South Africa such that they need an extra boost? Some of them are assessed in relation to the national transport plan. Then we'll see when the Stortinge treats it, if we agree on the road further. Let me also mention that in the area of supervision, there have been new supervision in recent years to follow up on security issues. I think they've done a good job, a good job, and it's important to point that out. There's been a lot of talk about road safety, and I want to touch it before I finish my post. But let me stress that here there is safety both in air, at sea, on track and on the road that it is important to look in context and bet on. As I mentioned in my initial reply, the Government will present the National Road Safety Plan at the same time as the National Transport Plan. It's the first time something like this is presented in this country. The next Thursday, I have invited all the agencies under the Ministry of Transport and other departments with underlying agencies dealing with security issues in a broad sense. Then we will discuss whether the security work carried out in the various departments can give the other departments new approaches, ideas, or other aspects, that can strengthen the security work in these departments. We will also assess the cross-sectoral safety work. But since it has been discussed and said a lot about road, I need to lick some of what is necessary to do to move on towards a zero vision. In fact, there is no road safety measure that alone can lead to a significant reduction in the number of injuries and deaths. What do we have to do? Yes, we need to strengthen the coordination of road safety work. We must ensure that roads are improved, inter alia, by: road development, removal of harmful roadside obstacles, curve improvements, profiled centrelines, high winter standard and high standard of maintenance. But it requires something from all of us: what we call behavioral regulatory measures. It could mean a lower speed limit. It may mean and shall mean a ban on the use of hand-held mobile phones by drivers while driving – it will be introduced on 5 March. The per mille limit is lowered to 0.2 pst., not for alcohol policy reasons, but for road safety reasons, the proposal lies in Stortinget. Punctuality of driving licences is being introduced. We need to introduce controls and sanctions, increased technical roadside checks on heavy-duty vehicles, increased control of protective equipment, automatic traffic control, accident analysis teams, road safety research, accident analysis of the entire road network. The sum of these activities and of these actions should give us greater road safety and make sense. I sincerely hope that the Stortinget when they get their national transport plan can give it its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e409	As a result, the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e421	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e430	A unanimous committee is behind both the comments and the setting that ‘the creation of media assistance offers for victims and relatives in serious criminal cases is not acceptable’. The Committee shares the concern expressed by the representatives of Halvorsen and Valle over the strong movement and the undue pressure from the media that victims and relatives are often subjected to in serious criminal cases. The assault or the crime itself and the attack can in itself create a crisis in family, friends and the social network. In such uplifting and shocking situations, the media must be very careful. Actually, it's all about respect for human dignity. It is when this respect is no longer present that it can be committed and criminal acts. All interpersonal relationships are about respect for human dignity. So when journalists are eager to get information and views, they touch the pain of others in a way that can be perceived as a lack of respect. I have to say that many of us feel that with headlines in newspapers or TV and radio posts we become spectators and members of something we don't have anything to do with, that we are treading within the limits of privacy. It is then appropriate to ask questions as to whether all the detailed information, images and descriptions are necessary. Grief and pain must not be entertainment, for what does it do to the mental and physical health of those affected? However, there should be no doubt that the Committee accepts the freedom of the media to cover serious criminal cases, including information from relatives and victims, within the limits of the law in force. Therefore, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to make a legal regulation on what media can or cannot do in collecting information. On the other hand, the press and the media themselves need to develop standards that can guide journalists in dealing with victims and relatives. The Media’s “Warnings” poster does not always seem to be enough. In other words, the media itself must be very aware of its power, have a self-critical attitude to both the way they act in order to collect information, and to the views and information that are conveyed and that may affect the people particularly hard. Matters about criminal acts in which the presentation reveals who it is become a very heavy extra burden for relatives. They are confronted directly or indirectly with the press releases – in the neighbourhood, in the workplace and in the schoolyard. As a result, they are far on the way to making extra demands on other people's criminal acts, in which they themselves have no participation. Can't it be the task of the press to intensify this grief and despair on the part of its relatives? So the committee's reminder to the press is that they have to take ethical responsibility for the innocents who are affected by one of their closest friends becoming strongly media-focused. Although the Committee does not agree with the proposal for a solution tabled by the representatives of Kristin Halvorsen and Ågot Valle, we have pointed out other ways of caring for victims and relatives. Police have a general obligation to provide assistance and assistance to all those who need it, which is reflected in the target and task structure that all police districts work for. This also applies to victims and relatives in criminal matters. It should be briefed that in their cases there may be pressure on media information. Such an orientation could prepare the mentally concerned, not least to give some form of acceptance in order to say no to the press, especially in the first, uplifting phase. However, the Committee does not consider it appropriate for police or prosecution authorities to be required to offer assistance to delineate or restrict contact with the media. In relation to suspects, this could easily be seen as an influence on investigation and proceedings. It is necessary to avoid arrangements that could lead to such uncertainty. The Committee asks the Government to ensure that, throughout the year, there is information material on how victims of crime can be secured assistance and support. This is a raising of awareness of this type of problem or challenge and further development and perhaps a renewal of existing material. Many policy-makers already have different types of information brochures. It is known that stress and heavy stress do not give you all the information that is given orally. Therefore, it is good to get something you can get back to and read when you need help in the following process. Further work will be undertaken on finding better ways of providing assistance to victims and relatives, which the Committee is very pleased with. Developing an advisory office for victims of crime, which can also be used by relatives, is very positive. As a conclusion, I will mention in particular the mental strain, and the importance of getting help to process traumatic experiences in a proper way. After contacting some victims and relatives, I see it as crucial that good and skillful help be given to avoid damage to the tendons. And especially important is taking children's and young people's experiences and feelings seriously. Some crisis teams are also needed for those affected by criminal cases, and it needs to be put in place. On behalf of the Committee, I would recommend voting in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e453	Only a few brief notes from the Workers' Party's side, as the setting is unanimous at all points. From our point of view, it is positive that offers and support for victims and relatives in criminal matters have received greater attention. I believe that this is necessary both in relation to the need for immediate assistance and assistance and for greater focus on the whole legal system – yes, indeed the whole civil society. In this way, I share the intention behind the document proposal we have for consideration today. We have also pointed out this in a number of contexts from the Committee on Justice. Among other things, we have the Committee is currently examining a separate case with a view to measures to strengthen the rights of victims of violence. The present proposal for a document proposes the establishment of a separate system of assistance for victims and relatives of professional information staff to tackle the media, including the following: the police are intended to have a significant responsibility. I agree that victims and relatives are also being subjected to greater stress at a time when the press is and is being experienced as more and more is going on. However, the working party does not consider it appropriate for the police to be entrusted with the task of offering assistance to restrict or restrict contact with the media. It could easily be a mix of roles. We believe that the need to tackle or become aware of media attacks should be linked to improvements to existing systems for information and advice to victims and relatives, which are currently too poor. I do not see that the need to refer to the information advisor for media assistance should be given special priority, or that the level of ambition should be higher here than for other needs of victims and relatives – there should be rights to health assistance or, for example, health assistance. replacement rights. Under the existing arrangements, the police have a general obligation to assist and inform, which should also provide information on media access. The most important thing is to be prepared and not to be referred to a professional information advisor. Assistance and advice with regard to the media should also be linked to the development of clinics for victims of crime, which may also be used by relatives. In this context, I would like to express great dissatisfaction at the fact that, after several years, such an advisory office has not yet been set up in Oslo. I would ask the Council of State to contribute to the progress of such an establishment. The support and assistance of public authorities to victims and relatives is one side of this matter. The other relates to the press’s own responsibility to limit the attendance of victims and relatives in serious criminal cases. In view of the public debate on the role of the press over the past few days, it is also seen, in relation to criminal journalism, that there is an increasing focus on individuals. Does the media have a conscious view of this development, or are the limits of the competition for sales figures and the most exclusive and close reports? The press should itself raise the ‘Be careful’ poster in this area. It is not enough to await complaints to the Professional Committee of the Press. You have to be at the forefront. This matter is really about avoiding innocent people being hit, and to that I think that in every area of our life we can contribute to a social development that takes care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e468	Action for victims of violence has been called for ever since the previous Judicial Committee dealt with these kinds of cases. We know that during this spring we both get a separate case of compensation for victims of violence and are going to deal with the suspension of the sexual law committee, which looks at the situation of those who have been subjected to sexualized violence. It is important to see different measures in the context, but it is also important to do the most important first. And the important thing is not to give your own media service to the victims. That does not mean that it is wrong, and I do not want to hareble over a proposal that is guaranteed to be good. But it's important to see things in context and do the most important thing first. Action for victims of violence begins with the apparatus of reception. How do we secure evidence in the health system? How can the police react quickly to ensure evidence and to make an attack? How do we use the custody arrangements for gross perpetrators, so that the victim does not meet the perpetrator on the street the next day, or at least the first day he is out of the hospital? Here comes changes in the law during the spring. It is about how we in the judiciary protect victims and testify against threats and violence from violent environments. Here, too, there is one matter in this House about so-called anonymous witnesses, because the Justice Committee has asked for it. It's about how we put the assistant lawyer at the disposal of the victim for a sufficient number of hours, so that it can balance the relationship with the attacker and his access to the country's best defence lawyers. It's about the victim's place in the courtroom, where one often feels like being on the courtroom, alone, while a number of attackers and their defense lawyers can sit on the row and row like a ten-head troll, as described by a victim of the childerns when he looked beyond the range of black robes that would attack him after he, as a victim, had given his explanation. It's about how quickly the police close the investigation, and about how soon the victim stops waiting in line for the court, so that the victim can finish the incident – do not wait two years for a final sentence after a rape where the criminal investigation has been less than two years, while the victim's plague, long-term psychiatric treatment, has been a tougher punishment than what was measured for the offender. Then the victim does not feel that his human dignity is anything compared to the human dignity of the invader. We're doing something in the Justice Committee in these areas. We have agreed to speedy courts, we have agreed to time limits for the police in terms of their investigation time in criminal matters, and we have agreed to time limits for the courts, so that no one should wait more than three months for a case. This is also about how the courts, by means of a criminal measure, signal that violence is unacceptable. The Justice Committee has also asked for that. It's about how the victim gets help, both psychiatric help and compensation after the assault. And of course, it's totally unacceptable that someone has to wait six years for such replacement, as we heard on the radio yesterday. It's about how easy it is to get a violent alarm afterwards, and how fast the police are moving out when the violence alarm rings. There must be demands on every police district, and the result must be measured. It is also about how repeated attackers get reduced freedom of movement so that they are kept away from the victim, and not least about how the police react to violations of the restricted freedom of movement. Finally, it is about how we inform a victim about all the rights he or she has, and how to get quick and relevant help. Then we talk about the spread of counselling offices for victims of crime. These points are the most important. The size has decided most of this; the rest is on the way. Now it's about implementation. Media assistance is not the most important thing. But the free press has a responsibility, a responsibility it does not take sufficiently seriously today. I am afraid that the editors' responsibility may be weakened if they can cover up the fact that the victim has received professional media assistance. There's at least one danger. Furthermore, I would like to say that if a victim gets enough hours with his assistant lawyer, the aid lawyer should be the one fronting the press in the same way that the defense lawyer fronts the press on behalf of the defendant. Right-wing promises to focus on strengthening the victim's position, both in the sexual law case, in the case of compensation for victims of violence and in the other cases that I have notified will come, upon request from a majority of the Judicial Committee. But doing this primarily and isolated as a new source of revenue for media advisors is not doing the most important thing first, although I am absolutely sure that the proposal was well intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e496	With respect to reporting, the committee leader, Krohn Devold, now kept an article on a matter that is not today's main problem. The proposal that Ågot Valle and I have put forward concerns the way in which you can ensure that those who, because of a tragic incident in a shorter – it may also be a longer – period suddenly experience as much media attention as the Crown Prince Haakon or Thorbjørn Jagland can experience. So what's the difference? The difference is that Crown Prince Haakon, Thorbjørn Jagland or Kristin Halvorsen have an opportunity to prepare for some situations. One eventually has a knowledge of how the media work. One has the ability to create some buffers between itself and the media. One has the opportunity to prepare his closest. One has the ability to make a balance of power in relation to the press and the press's momentum that makes it possible not to be invaded. That is what this proposal is based on. If you're in the situation that something dramatic happens to one of your closest, for example. that a sister has been subjected to a criminal act – and that kind of situation is not possible to prepare for – can experience people in a state of shock, in heavy grief, that the next phone they get is not from any of their closest ones who will express their compassion, but from someone who would like to have a class picture or a story about what he really was like. It's an assault – that's how it's perceived in the individual situation. It is not something you should push away and explain that it was probably nice meant to. There is simply a dramatic imbalance in power between the job that the press wants to do when they cover crime, which is good stuff that sells newspapers and provides viewers in the TV stations, and what people need to protect themselves from. So the question is, how can you do this in a reasonable way? I don't believe in legal regulation. The press has the right and perhaps also the duty to cover criminal substances. But we can do something about the misunderstanding and the unreasonable lack of balance of power between those who are exposed to such a race and the pressure on the other side. That is what is meant by this proposal. We don't think there's anyone in the police who's supposed to be responsible for providing media advice when the press suddenly takes an interest in any of the relatives in that kind of case. But we think the police can be the only link that can connect the relatives or the victim and someone who can be professional in advising them on how it should be. And that's not essentially to prevent relatives from having contact with the media. Perhaps relatives would like to contact the media. Maybe they want to give a different idea of the victim than what has appeared in the media so far. But they should know where it is possible to set the limits, and how it is possible to get a control over this. That's what's on our hearts. I'm not sure any members of the Judicial Committee have really experienced a media drive in Crown Prince Haakon's standard or Jagland's standard. - They don't! I think that if you had had a slightly greater ability to experience what kind of invasion it might be suddenly to get into the spotlight -- not in any case, but also in a very tragic case -- the Justice Committee would be more concerned about how to do something about the balance of power that was actually. The background that Ågot Valle and I have raised this matter is long-lasting interest in how the media community works, but also that it was a tragic killing matter where the sister of the victim spoke in the media with her version of the case while it was going on. I think that's what I'm witnessing in a very strong situation. And I actually think that's what I deserve to be followed up by political authorities. SV would like to promote the proposal set out in the text of the vote, as an alternative to the position of the Judicial Committee, and to follow up the matter later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e513	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e516	I will not go into the long range of measures that have been adopted and will be implemented, or that are under investigation to combat crime or to ensure that victims get better. I'm going to focus on what I feel that both the proposers, the committee and the department have in common: what can you do in a modern media landscape to deal with what can suddenly occur? Let me say the following: I don't think even with long political experience you'll be able to easily be prepared for what can suddenly occur. But the representatives who have promoted this still have a point, and the point is two-fold. I have taken up the topic in meeting with the Norwegian Editorial Association, because they invited me to come there and talk about the position of the Freedom of Speech Commission. Then I said very clearly that if the press does not want rules to inculcate the press's access to legal processes, the press itself must go to the self-cleaning effort that Francis Sejersted talks about in the context of the Freedom of Speech Commission, and that should lead to the fact that in the news and reporting area too, you can take as thoughtful and reflected settlement with yourself as one can do with the personalities of power in society, whether it be politicians, people in business or otherwise. I said that very seriously because freedom of expression has a price: it not only gives a right, it also gives a duty. I feel that it is important that it is said from the Speaker's Chair, and it is almost a little sad that the press release is empty at the time of this debate, but I assume that the press listens well to the speakers and elsewhere and follows screens. So that's the second point, that goes into: what kind of system do we now have after all when people get into this situation? We actually have something. Firstly, we have the advisory offices, which are mentioned by several. An office will be set up in Oslo, to which we are committed – it should be lacking, it is in the action plan ‘Towards violence against women’, and we will increase from five to nine offices. It's clear that we can see if you can connect some media experience in those offices. It is also the case that there is a general information print case called ‘From notification to judgment’, which is sent to public authorities around the country. There, of course, you can consider including some of the things that go on the media that can occur after a very dramatic event. Thirdly, we have an aid lawyer in a number of serious criminal cases. Fourthly, in matters that are different, we have free legal aid without need testing, when it comes to special violence against women in community or other strong situations. Of course, it makes sense for those who are in these situations, as part of the preparations, to discuss and draw attention to the public landscape in which they live. In the same way, you can talk to those who are connected, like the pastor and psychiatrists and others. It's also possible to look at what the police in Larvik actually did after the murder case last year, where the police the first time found a way to do it, where one police representative was the one who kept asking the relatives questions, so they didn't always meet many different people. There was a way to be very consistent in the coverage and the roll-up of the case. At the same time, at local level, there was room for him to accept media requests in the first, heavy time, so that he could be channelled. What also happened in the Larvik case, which is very interesting, was that neighbors reacted when they thought the helicopters were too close. – So I think the most important thing about this case is the public attention that is being generated. I'd like to end the article by saying that modern journalism is at its best, when it's out there, in practice is research. It's as systematic as when the police investigate. It's the same thing going on, and it's happening in full light. For this reason, the most important thing in this debate is the press-based commitments that fall back on the media. And if, in order to take Francis Sejerstedt seriously, you have a freedom of expression that gives many rights, the right to walk after the people of power, whether they are government councillors, depositors, directors or whatever it may be, then you also have to take on the duty of protecting businessless people. And I know myself, from my former life as a social worker, that there are many people who are excited to be able to stand up with their case, and who then get a psychological blue-man day the next day because no one told them that it might be that way. I myself have been near such situations, and I do not forget them. In this way, I believe that the proposers have managed to get a search light on the matter. I would like the debate on this to be a debate which was as easily accessible in the media as many other debates taking place there, but in the name of freedom of expression, it cannot be more than a wish of a council of states from the Parliamentary pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e537	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e540	This is a matter that has been a lot of interest around and much going on, and which the press has also discussed, both in public space and in connection with this proposal. But I think one of the reasons why the press release is empty here today is that they're exhaling lightly. They don't want to do anything more about this! Firstly, the press is always provoked by suggestions on how to limit their ability to intervene in the lives of other people. But this proposal does not involve that kind of regulation. This is a sort of counter-power proposal. It's a proposal to give greater opportunity, greater awareness, greater weight in dealing with a media press for those who unwittingly experience such a kind of situation. But when the Justice Committee is as pink as they are here today, the press has nothing to fear. They can continue just as before, in the certainty that the Justice Committee is doing something else. So that's it! Think of the meeting between a relative in a criminal case who has not been in the papers since the baptismal announcement – that’s what ordinary people basically have of contact with media and newspapers – and on the other hand, the person who is perceived as a – what to say – counterparty, or a helper, but who is one of Norway’s most driven criminal reporters. This can be small communities that suddenly get the national media’s huge interest. And not everyone has neighbors who set up tents and keep watch. Where, then, is there any help? Where, then, is there any way to do what the Council of State Dørum says, to think through things? What do I think about this tomorrow? If I say something today, how do I think about this tomorrow? Will it have any long-term effects? How do you do that? Then it does not help to have an office in Oslo that you can twiddle down to after 14 days. For those who have been in these situations, it goes five minutes after you have notified me of an accident that has occurred, before the national media are on your cell phone. That's the situation. Those in the press who have been interested in this, and who have given it some attention, should have known that there was much greater vigilance from a growing majority on how to assist in what is a very distorted balance of power per. today. That's why I think it's strange how little involved the Justice Committee is in these issues, because this is obviously experienced in individual situations as much as anything else. The individual representative can think about the degree of despair if you are misjudged in a sentence or two in a newspaper. So it's just some "pilemite" and blueberries compared to such a storm that unprepared and unprotected people can suddenly experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e552	There were a few words from one of the proposers that made me take the floor for the second time. One was a lack of sympathy from the members of the committee, the other was the word 'pink' justiscomite. I think we are wise here to stick to the realities of what is in the proposal, and whether the text of the proposal itself will help with what Kristin Halvorsen wants to solve. First, the allegations that the Judicial Committee does not have the capacity to act. Of course, we can all sit down in how it felt to that sister, whom Kristin Halvorsen was inside, when her sister was killed and the press called five minutes later. But would Kristin Halvorsen's proposal solve the problem for that sister? Would she be able to put a media adviser in place in that home in the five minutes? Just because I have individual experience, because we meet them all the time in the Justice Committee – if there's a committee with which the victims contact, it's us – I also understand a little of the realities we're talking about. The most important thing for a victim in the first five minutes can be to talk to the hospital. It could be to talk to the police and even more to talk to their own family members, get together. It's neither talking to the press nor talking to the media consultant. But it's clear that when it's been a while and you've been done away with the most important conversations, there will also be a need to get help to keep the press at a distance. Then I think that both information available in the individual police chamber and an assistant lawyer who can handle this professionally is the only practical way to really help the victim. But don't come and say that lack of sensitivity is the problem here. The problem is a pressure that goes over the line every single day, that's going to keep going over the line, and that's going to call five minutes after it's been killed. They were the ones who should have been at the event here, not the Justice Committee. These are the realities, and I think and hope that with a concerted effort from us and a collective criticism from us against the Editorial Association, against those in the press community who are responsible for treating victims in a proper way, we will at least achieve far more than a well-being proposal that will never result in a media advisor standing at the bedside five minutes after the event has happened, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e561	Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e564	In fact, I think the people who come into this kind of situation need practical advice. Kristin Krohn Devold describes a situation where you need to gather your closest and all that there, but fearlessly many people experience being invaded at that very moment. Just knowing that you have the right to keep current journalists away, not feel obliged to be invaded in those kinds of situations – that's what this is often about. That's what you should have been helped for in such a situation. I do not believe that there should be any general pressure on the press in this discussion. We need to make a cold and cynical assessment. In a situation like this, who has power? Who has taken over? Who has the routine? Who's going to write the stuff that the seller's newspaper? It's the press. On the other hand, there are completely unprepared people, and it's only if you're willing to do something about that balance of power, you can find something that actually works.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e571	I take the floor again because the general behind the whole discussion is the conditions of freedom of expression, with its rights and obligations. In other words, it is a moral contract that exists within the provisions of the Constitution and in proposals for a new provision. This theme invited the Norwegian Editorial Association to talk about it, and I talked about it and spelled it the following way: If you want to avoid legal rules, what they look like now, you have to take freedom of expression – not only rights, but also duties – seriously. Not only do we need to discuss things in professional media bodies, but we also need the media to be able to have a self-critical review of what is happening in matters, while at the same time having a news coverage. This is a moral duty that is actually important, and it must be carried out with the pressure that belongs to freedom of expression, that it should be so. It doesn't have to be like that, I have to let myself say it, that you have to use whip, that you have to tell the media that if you don't do it, we do it and we do it. It must be that when editors invite to a debate in order to ensure freedom of expression, ensuring the possibility of inquiring reports, they must also take on the moral obligations they have towards businessless persons. It is not possible to put any greater pressure on it in Norway than to say it in this room and in the way that has been said in this debate. I would like to repeat it: with freedom of expression and with the right to be critical of those who are powerful, there is also a moral responsibility to be a protector of businessless persons who cannot easily know how the landscape species behave. There's such a commitment, and I stress it again, because without it we assume that those who ask for the rights are moving in a moral vacuum, and that doesn't require me. I assume that they feel committed to the moral rights and duties of the Freedom of Speech Commission, which Francis Sejersted presented, and which one likes to hear being presented at seminars and meetings. When this moves from trade union meetings among journalists and debate meetings in the Editorial Association to being part of the reflection in the newspaper columns firmly and steadily, just as we get imaginative comments on how government councils think, party leaders think, foreign heads of state think, then we have reached the stage that will also protect many of the situations that proposers have been concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e580	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e594	Today's Progress Party proposals are being incorporated into the series of previous Progress Party proposals, more or less on the same theme. The proposals come with new headings and are not compatible with the principles on which the Norwegian rule of law is based. Already in the treatment of the penal code in 1901, an overall increase went beyond the previous principle that, if several conditions were to be judged, a person should be penalised at the same time for each condition, which would then be summed up to a maximum limit. This principle attempted to reintroduce the Progress Party by Document No. 8:12 for 1998-99, but was rejected in cash by the majority. Although today’s proposals are not identical to the previous one, this proposal is also based on automatic realignment of penalties, and is therefore also not compatible with the principles on which the Stortinge applied after the 1901 reading. The Labour Party, like the majority of the Committee, considers that, in the course of criminal proceedings, a person who repeats criminal offences still has to pay attention to the proportionality of the offence(s) committed and the penalty to be imposed. Repetition shall result in increased penalties and on several occasions an overall committee has expressed the need for increased penalties for various types of violent crime and for repeated criminality. The representative Simonsen points in the background to his suggestion that there are relatively few people who are behind much of the crime, and that if these are taken out of circulation, the number of criminal acts could be considerably reduced. Furthermore, this will prevent crime and protect potential victims. I fully share this intention, but I believe that this should be possible in ways other than those desired by the Progress Party, and within the legal principles that apply in Norway and elsewhere in our neighbouring country. I have thought a little about what the proposals of the Progress Party can mean in practice. The Party wishes to carry out a system whereby, in the event of a second conviction, the punishment is automatically multiplied by two; in the event of a third conviction, the punishment is automatically multiplied by three, etc. So this is to be done regardless of whether the first sentence or judgments are concerned with driving on red light, car theft or rape, i.e. no gradation in relation to the seriousness of the previous Judges. Let's say that a person, too long ago, has been sentenced to sentence because of three relatively de minimis circumstances, and then he or she is charged with violating the law's provisions of the Personal Information Act, where the government of the bill that we now have to deal with in the Stortinget proposes a three-year upper penalty framework. That is, he/she will be able to get a sentence of 4 times 3 years, that is, 12 years, because this is the fourth sentence. Everyone must be able to see that this will be beyond the reasonableness of what to have as a penalty level in Norway. In the examination of the already mentioned document proposal, which referred to the so-called quantum discount, an overall committee came up with a series of measures that could get the so-called recurrences out of circulation, which is a common desire of the Judicial Committee. In St. prp. No In the case of the last harvest, the Ministry of Justice will explain how the various measures are being treated and followed up by the Ministry. At record speed, the Justice Committee has dealt with Ot.prp. No 27 on the law of procedure. It will be treated in Odelstinget later today, and goes for example. the fact that a person is required to be able to judge criminal offences against a person as soon as they have been fully investigated, and not waiting for any other facts for which he is intended to do so. The Ministry, with its legislative proposal, has followed closely the Committee's wish that criminal offences should no longer be collected before the prosecution, as is the case today. As I said, this amendment of the law, which is very central and important in the fight against repeat crime, is coming back to us later today. Advocate General Qvigstad delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Full Court on 10 November 2001. The Labour Party agrees that, as a general rule, the judgment must be given at the hearing in which the defendant is present and that the appeal period shall apply from the date of the judgment. Another important element is to improve the effectiveness of criminal proceedings. If I understand correctly, the main task of the two working groups set up by the Ministry is to carry out a broad review of how, in practice, one can reduce the length of proceedings. As the Committee has pointed out on several occasions, it is also essential to have a rapid implementation of the criminal response following a judgment. The government has also addressed this issue in the budget proposal, pointing out itself the need to implement the criminal response as soon as possible and that this could have a criminal and crime-reduction effect. Governments and magnification also share a joint responsibility for the ability of criminal services to implement rapid implementation. It is very important that the Ministry of Justice gives this topic top priority. Furthermore, I am pleased that the proposal to extend the use of care to the most active repeaters has now been consulted. I hope that it will not take too long before Stortinget also gets this for treatment. It seems quite clear that within today's criminal framework in Section 62 of the Criminal Code, which deals with common penalties for more criminal offences, there are opportunities to follow up a wanted criminal tightening. However, I am not satisfied that the Ministry of Justice in the budget proposal seems to conclude that there is currently no need for a further assessment of a possible amendment to Section 62 of the Criminal Code, which sets an upper limit of one and a half times the penalty limit for the most serious of the convicted cases. The Workers' Party and the majority of the Committee wish such an assessment and that it be submitted to the Grand total by the end of this year. Following this review of measures against reoccurrence crime, it should be clear that both the magnificence and the government are taking this seriously, and therefore it should be unnecessary for the Progress Party to continue its marking needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e632	It is true, as the rapporteur said, that this proposal goes hand in hand with a number of previous proposals from the Progress Party, which have the sole purpose of ensuring that crime is reduced. There can be no doubt that the proposal will be effective. It's not even necessary to refer to American cities and states like New York and California and their success with a code that provides long-term punishment for third-time criminals, to understand that. It's enough to use common sense. The proposal will remove repeat criminals from the streets for long periods of time at a time. Since a person is difficult to break into private homes while sitting behind locks and beating in a prison, it is obvious that the number of burglaries will be significantly reduced if we remove criminals from the criminal circulation. The proposal to double the penalties for second-time criminals and triple the penalties for third-time criminals will reduce crime. I haven't heard anyone dispute it. Consequently, when the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Government parties do not support the proposal, it must be because they are not willing to use sufficiently strong instruments to secure people's lives and property. The concern of the criminal is above the concern of the potential victims. It's regrettable, and it's worth noting, not least for the country's voters. Objection to the proposal is that there is no consistency between offences and criminal prosecution. That's wrong. A less serious crime will still provide far less punishment than a serious crime. The judge shall first, notwithstanding the fact that the conviction will be multiplied by the number of convictions, measure a sentence which is precisely consistent with the seriousness of the offence. It is true that there may be a relatively insignificant criminal act that is committed the first time, but then this person will know that if he continues to commit criminal acts, whatever the nature, the punishment will be significantly greater next time, and then he might stick to the right side of the law. In that case, some of the purpose has been achieved. The lack of minimum penalties and the widespread use of conditional punishments and community services make it very easy for many criminals today to escape their untruths. It is therefore worth noting that the majority, including the Right, agree with the Minister of Justice's negative view of minimum penalties. In addition, we have a quantum discount scheme that in practice means that the perpetrator avoids punishment for a large part of the crimes he commits. It is worth noting that the majority, including the Right, repeats that there is enough to make a minor adjustment to this unreasonable quantum discount scheme. So although the proposal under consideration today is much more moderate than the practice in New York and California, it is not supported by other parties. It's worth noting that the majority, including the Right, does not want a radical tightening of the penal responses for the relapse criminals. It is worth noting at all that the bulk of the population, all parties outside the Progress Party, still largely take the criminals under their wings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e647	As early as 1901, the Storting went away from the principles of automatic criminal justice systems. The reason for that was that it gave such an unreasonable impression that even people who lived at a time with completely different attitudes to what was a harsh punishment, with completely different attitudes to what was an inhumane criminal option, actually seemed to be too daring to maintain the system. It was a system of addition, where you put together every single criminal act and got a sum. We were one of the last countries in Europe to go away. Last spring we discussed a proposal for addition – that is plus, plus, plus is given a sum – from the Progress Party. It was a strong enough tool from the Progress Party last spring, spring 1999. But this spring, spring 2000, it's the multiplication table that's going on. Now you have to double the sentence and triple the penalty for every criminal act. You can ask yourself what's going to be the penalty options next spring. I guess that's the exponent estimate. Mathematics should be more at school, but there shouldn't be any more at court. The Court of Justice shall be characterised by individual assessments and an overall assessment. But what the Progress Party is right to do is that the criminal rebates given in Norway have been too large. That's what a unanimous committee said last year. But we have to find tools that solve this problem, which are acceptable and that are serious. [[Krohn Devold]] A problem has been that the cases have accumulated – I kept saying – almost endlessly, and it has not been unusual for up to 50 offences to be dealt with at the same time by a court. Then it goes without saying that the punishment must involve a certain discount, because you can't judge more strongly for simple thefts than for murder. That would destroy respect for our legal system. Then there's this collection of things we have to do something about. And we're already doing something about that later in Odelstinget, where we're adopting a change in law that says that hereafter it shouldn't be a right for the accused to get all the cases dealt with at the same time. The consideration of the victim and the consideration of a rapid conviction are becoming more important; it should be the decisive criterion. And if that's when things you can't take, you're going to have to take an extra sentence afterwards. Another problem has been the preaching rules and other things that have taken unreasonable time from someone to be brought before the court until he actually has to meet there. The Judicial Committee already said before Christmas that the signals given by the Advocate General about the changes were positive. And now the proposition says that it's working on it in the department, with both legislative and regulatory changes that take into account the need for faster administrative procedures. The third problem has been that once the repeaters have come out again, they have committed new crimes and have continued to collect them. Increased use of care for repeaters will effectively keep them away from new crime. That's what the Justice Committee said unanimously last year that we want, and it's announced a case of what, after all, comes to summer. The Committee has also unanimously stated that criminal proceedings in the courts should be stepped up both for perpetrators and for repeaters. And even if things are slow, the courts have started the job. The fourth is that there has been a rule that you can only judge one and a half times the penalty for the most serious charge in a lawsuit. Obviously, if there is a large number of charges, so that you should have a criminal measure that is more than a half and a half times the penalty for the most serious case, it would seem like a restriction. But also there last year the Justice Committee said that we would have considered increasing it twice. The sum of these instruments will result in a criminal tightening, a much faster response, a far less chance of being repeatedly criminalised, and in particular, it will remove the penalty rebate that everyone has agreed is undesirable. But it's a little more difficult way to go, it might take a year to solve it, but it's a serious way to go. And justice politicians who are more concerned with results than with demonstrations, with our instruments, will see that we come to goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e666	The representative Simonsen assumes that relatively few people are behind a large proportion of crime in Norway. We do not disagree with that. We can also nod to confirm that if these people are taken out of criminal circulation, the number of criminal acts will be considerably reduced. That math isn't hard to get into. But in the further reasoning and in the proposal for a solution, the Christian People's Party fundamentally disagrees with the representative Simonsen of the Progress Party. To ensure that the goal of removing the repeats, or the vancriminals, as the representative calls them this time, he believes that it is most effective to keep them locked up, preferably in the lifetime. But in order to achieve this, the level of penalties has to change radically. Yes, the representative Simonsen will introduce a new principle and radical penal methodology. For each new conviction, the sentence is multiplied by the number in the row of the conviction. If that's the tenth time you're judged, and the default would be one year, it'll be ten years instead. It shall end with the principle of proportionality between the level of penalties and crime, although Simonsen appears correctly in his justification as a ski jumper that cuts through the curve. After a seemingly bold exit from the jump, it quickly turns out that it did not vote on the edge of the jump, and he cuts through the curve, pulls, and lands on the ball, that is to say, there is a failed attempt, where the drama lies in the wording of the proposal to automatically multiply the penalty measurement, while the curve of the sleep breaks through the justification, where it is said that there should be a connection between the criminal acts being committed and the punishment being imposed – and thus he splashes into the ball. Why will not the Christian People's Party participate in Simonsen's repeated attempts to appear as the criminals' struggles and the eager protection of society? That's because we have a different starting point for thinking about punishment, and because we also have respect for human dignity in relation to criminals as a fundamental prerequisite. For us, it's not just about society getting rid of a problem as easily as possible by using multiplication systems and prison walls, we think it's superficial and unworthy of a democratic legal society. Is it right to label people who commit their second and third criminal acts as criminals? Is there a difference between crime in Simonsen's multiplication system thinking, or is anything cut across one chamber where crime is crime of any degree or extent? The Christian People's Party fundamentally disagrees with Simonsen's representative in his proposals in this matter. But there is agreement between us that the level of penalties must be increased in some essential areas, especially in relation to human abuse. When it comes to repeaters in criminal matters, I also refer to posts I made in the case about the representatives of Hagen and Simonsen's proposals on the so-called quantum discount of the courts. In order to get the repeats out of the queue of offenders as soon as possible, it is necessary to reduce the time of proceedings and to speed up the implementation of criminal response. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide for an opening in order to break down the judgment of several criminal offences committed by one person. In addition, extended use of care may be effective in relation to the most active rebounds. There may also be grounds for referring to the possibility of higher criminal penalties for which the applicable criminal framework provides for opening up. However, it is clear from the Committee's comments on the matter that we are discussing and the rapporteur's presentation, that all the parties and the Government are taking the problem seriously. However, when the representative Simonsen strives to characterise the other members of the Justice Committee as persons who want the consideration of the crime to be in front of the victim, or that we take the criminals under our wings – yes, then at least the last assumes that the representative Simonsen looks at his co-representatives in the committee as angels compared to himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e681	The proposer proposes the introduction of an automatic double-checking system for second-time criminals, triple-checking for third-time criminals, etc. Relapse offenders are largely victors, mainly thieves. The penal code does not currently have a general rule that the penalty should be increased once the offender has been punished in the past. However, a number of individual provisions raise the penalties for certain offences when the offender has previously committed a crime of a similar nature. This applies, for example: in the case of some crimes of violence and morality, and in the case of car theft, theft and losses. Previous criminal offences are also emphasised as an exacerbating factor in criminal investigations in cases where the criminal framework is not raised by repetition. The majority of the Judicial Committee does not support the proposal. I share the view of the majority, as expressed in my letter to the Committee on 16 November 1999. The proposal in Document No. 8: 2 has similarities with several other proposals that have been promoted in recent years. I have expressed several times, and most recently in the letter to the Committee, that I share the concern of the author of the proposal about the scale of the recurrent crime, but a system of automatic tightening of the sentence is not the way to go to solve this problem. Rules on schematic criminality may seem unreasonable. They are poorly in keeping with modern principles of punishment. There would be a danger that the courts might feel compelled to declare false acquittals in order to prevent unreasonable criminal prosecution. We had in the past a minimum penalty system for the one who was convicted of gross winning crimes, and who had previously been punished three or more times for the same crime. The experience with the minimum penalty for repeated gross profit crime suggests that such a scheme should not be reintroduced. The majority of the Judicial Committee refers to the same arguments as mentioned above when it does not support the proposal. I maintain the views I expressed to the Committee in November that other measures should be taken against criminals. As mentioned in St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, page 13, priority will be given to action against reoccurrence crime. In addition to increased penalties within the current criminal framework, rapid responses are an important tool. Work on speeding up criminal proceedings is a high priority in the department. A number of measures, partly administrative in nature, are being worked on and partly related to legislative changes. In St. prp. No 1, pp. 13 and 14, also refers to a letter from the Riksadvokat to the Department, where the Riksadvokat asks the Government to strengthen the instruments in the fight against profit crime committed by repeaters. In the letter, the national lawyer states that there is no need to change the rules on penalties. Any form of schematic criminality is not recommended at all. In the view of the National Advocate, it is the punishment that needs to be increased. The national lawyer argues that the prosecution authority will continue to work to increase the level of penalties by this type of case. I agree with these views of the Riksadvokat. The Advocate General has stated that the active use of custody is another important instrument in the fight against repeated criminality of profits. As the Judicial Committee has requested in the Budget. S. No 4 for 1998-99, the Ministry has sent to the hearing the question of whether access to the care of repeaters is sufficient or whether there is a need for legislative change. The hearing period is 10 April of this year. The Ministry has in Ot.prp. No 27 for 1999-2000, inter alia proposed to amend Section 13 of the Criminal Procedures Act on the Association of Criminal Matters. The proposal shall facilitate the disaggregation of the conviction of several criminal offences committed by the same person. This can be judged more quickly and more effectively and reduces the importance of the discount scheme. This proposal will be discussed at the Odelsting meeting later today. In the budget proposal, the Ministry stated that there is currently no need to amend Section 62 of the Penal Code on Penalty Measurement and Penalty Frameworks when several offences are convicted at the same time. The Committee is required to carry out a more thorough assessment of the issue. It'll be done. However, I stress that the work on the other measures mentioned above is a very high priority. In my view, these measures are more important in the fight against recurrent crime than any changes to Section 62, although I stress that what has been asked here is to be done. There are also other legislative reforms in criminal law and criminal proceedings which, in my opinion, deserve to be prioritised more. The size knows it well, but there may be reason to repeat it in this context too: the two working groups that are now working on the whole chain of criminal proceedings have to provide their work for the summer. They make a partial investigation, and as an expression of some of this work that is going on, and that takes place in close cooperation between the Stortinget and the Ministry of Justice, we have the treatment of § 13, which comes later today. Similarly, other relevant issues will be promoted along the way. When they are prepared, they will be presented to the Stortinget. In this way, I am convinced that the public will be given a change in the impression that something is going on for too long from something wrong until it is reacted. We simply ensure that the trial period is cut, because of course it is unacceptably high when it is on average well below 200 days in the police, and it is high in the courts, both at first and second instance. It is also, as the committee has said, relevant for the ministry to assess deadlines, but we will take it up after we have received all the suggestions on the table from the working groups working on the criminal case chain. There are many proposals from these groups. It is a motivated and coordinated work that is now taking place between all the parties involved in the judicial process to ensure that the work of the Committee, i.e. the majority, is carried out here today. There is a mentality present, and I believe that the committee in its form of work and through the dialogue you have with the ministry has been involved in producing this mentality. I simply have the impression that people now go enthusiastically into matters that for many people have, in part, been lying for a number of years without anything happening in the past. I think it's the mentality and the form of cooperation that are involved in creating this pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e714	I don't think the representative Jan Simonsen can seriously mean it when he says – or gives us the impression – that the rest of the committee is not concerned with reducing that crime, in this case the repeat crime, which we are talking about as a social problem, which is clearly also the majority's opinion. I think that, in the committee as a whole, we have a good deal to do with getting the so-called repeater criminals out of circulation. We all want that. But the legal principles that we left in 1901 – I was into it in my first post, and Kristin Krohn Devold has repeated it afterwards – we don't want them back. I also think that double or triple punishment is a little special – Kristin Krohn Devold was involved in mathematics: as long as an adder – it was inside the proposal the Progress Party had the last time – one has at least some control over what's going to happen, but when you start multiplying by numbers greater than or equal to 2, a quick get to the widths. If you have a little bit of math, a very quick understanding of that relationship. Then I think the representative Jan Simonsen took a very easy look at the question of the punishment to be measured for the crime in question when one has committed crimes in the past. It's true that one starts with the last act, but if one comes into a situation where one has to multiply by two, three, four, or five when the crime might have been at a de minimis level, of course it's going to be totally wrong. And the example I used instead, I can repeat now. We now have to deal with the data protection law, which lays down a three-year penalty framework. If you've broken against it, a few can get up to three years in prison. If one at the fourth time the crime then could get twelve years, it would reasonably be far away from what is the usual man and woman's legal opinion. It'll be totally wrong. Then to the penalty level. Within the current criminal framework, it is clear that something can be done. We can get higher penalties, we all agree on that. But I think the Council of State took a little light on this with one and a half times the penalty. I am pleased that the Council of State promised a careful review, but I think that the Council of State is somewhat anticipating compared to the fact that it has almost been concluded. We want a thorough review to see if there's enough of what's lying there. It must be clear that this is a clear wish of the majority of the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e727	I can start by recording the proposal from the Progress Party, which is reproduced in the setting, so it will not be forgotten. The representative Kristin Krohn Devold from the Right pointed out that already in 1901, the quantum discount system was introduced, which means that if you are convicted for a whole series of criminal acts at the same time, you should only be able to get a penalty equal to 50 pst. more than the most serious criminal act. I have to remind you that the criminal reaction in Norway was at a completely different level in the last century than it is today. At that time, prisons of a completely different standard than today’s hotel prisons were likely to receive several years’ imprisonment for some burglaries. In 2000, we have examples of people who have committed 40-50 burglaries being sentenced to community service for a few months, which means they have to work 1 hour per. in this period rather than in prison. Then it might make sense to get back the system of punishment for all the criminal acts you commit. I don't think anyone in Norway outside this house will feel that it is particularly unreasonable. We discussed the situation of victims of violence earlier today – and we also have one thing on it in the committee. Both victims of violence and victims of burglary and other crime today experience getting letters from the police where it says: Sorry, but this case is closed, even though we know who was the perpetrator, and the reason we have filed the case is that it has no purpose to investigate the matter done, because it will have no significance for the criminal investigation because this criminal has committed so many other burglaries or raids or acts of violence. So we're sorry, but we're not going to follow up your case. All the other parties here in the house clearly believe that it is right and fair that it should be so, and one will only accept a few minimal changes in the «quantity discount scheme» – this is a result of the system that I call a quantum discount on crime. It is true that we have a case from the Minister of Justice that we are going to deal with later today, that it is going to be more difficult to collect matters than it has been in the past. Today it is such that a person who is taken for criminal acts, while he goes and waits for the case to be settled in the police and come up to court, of course continues to commit criminal acts. Then he is taken for the new criminal act, and then it also has to be investigated, and then all of these matters are taken up on the same day in court, and then he gets away with a sentence for one and a half instead of all. Making it more difficult to collect cases is positive, it is a very small step in the right direction, but still it is that when the police take a person for a run, you roll up a whole lot of crime this person has stood behind earlier – perhaps he admits that he has committed four-five years and also a number of burglaries – and then he is brought to trial at the same time for these conditions, and then he will still get a significant discount. There have been some people who have mentioned the problem of minimum penalties. The Council of State is negative to the minimum penalty, and the majority of committees also state that they are against minimum penalties, as is the case with all parties outside the Advance Party. There are two arguments that are being used, first of all, that it can provide an unreasonable punishment. I have no faith in that, the purpose of a minimum penalty is precisely that it should be the absolute minimum one to give for a crime when one has taken into account all conceivable and unimaginable excuses for the criminal act. And then it will only be in unusually few cases that it will be an unreasonable punishment. The next argument is that the jury will absolve even if people are guilty because you feel that the punishment you can get is too strict. What kind of trust do you have in the jury system if you can mean something like that? A jury has one task, and that task is to assess whether a person is guilty or innocent in a criminal act, and I have the confidence in this system that the jury is doing the job. If you mean anything else, like the majority here, you get to remove the jury order. But I personally trust it. So you are opposed to removing the quantum discount, and the case rapporteur showed that it was unreasonable that if you could get three years for a personal data breach, you would be able to get twelve years the third time you break the law. But then it's so simple that you don't break the law three times, then you stop after the first crime. Then you have had a taste over your fingers and know that the taste will be much harder next time, and then you stop. The representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen believed that the Progress Party would block out common criminals. Yes, for a longer period than the other parties want, because each common criminal commits so many criminal acts and hurts so many people that you have to choose who you should feel sorry for, and who you should help first of all. And then it's like this criminal gets a chance: he can stop after getting the first punishment. He can stop after the second penalty, which is then twice as long. But if he chooses to continue after the third, fourth, and fifth times, he will finally get such a considerable sentence that he stays mostly in prison. But then he chose this himself. The community has had to take account of the potential victims, because we know that if he gets out, he just keeps going the same way. In fact, I think that the proposal from the Progress Party is a fair proposal. And when other politicians oppose this proposal and do not argue that these are proposals that do not work, then one can only conclude that we actually take more account of the victims than of the criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e750	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e753	I want to start from two things in the posts of the representative Simonsen. One is that today's reality is completely different from that of 1901, and the other is that we should be afraid that Simonsen's proposal will work. Yes, I am absolutely sure that the proposal will work. But that would seem quite unreasonable! And the difference between the 1901 proposal and today's proposal is that today's proposal is a multiplication table proposal, while that one had in 1901, was a summary proposal. And even with today's punishments, which Simonsen thinks are far too low in most areas, it will very easily give completely unreasonable results. It's not necessarily a violation of the same law three times. You can break up three times with completely different laws, it can be completely different relationships, and then it's completely impossible to use the argument that this system should be deterrent. I will give a simple example: there are many self-employed people who think the legislation is very complicated to deal with when it comes to accounting and a number of other things. The penalty for economic adultery is three years, and it is very easy, almost inconspicuous to be brought within the penal framework. Many self-employed people experience it – and I understand it so that the representative Simonsen and many others believe that eco-crime is actually being punished too hard. Let's say one commits a milder eco-criminal act with a three-year penalty. He'll be given three years for the first time. The next time it turns out that he is a hunter and has weapons. And the Arms Act has been tightened, there's the penalty framework for a couple of years. Jan Simonsen voted against the law – he disagreed with it – but it was adopted. So this little self-employed person, who has already been taken for a little sloppy account, has some illegal weapons, either because he has not followed the Arms Act, or because he has not thought it has been so dangerous, and that there has been no major crime. The second time he's taken, it's not a two-year penalty that counts for him, but then it's four years – probably Simonsen will think it's a relatively tough punishment to break a law that he actually disagreed with was passed. The third time, it may be that he is engaged in online commerce and is considered in relation to the Data Protection Act, which has a three-year penalty framework. Then he has committed three crimes, but relatively moderate criminal acts, and the last time the triple effect comes in: nine years for violation of the personal data protection law. Even with today's horrendous punishment measurement – in Simonsen's view – the model will give such an unreasonable impression that I am absolutely sure that those who were poachers in 1901 and were used to completely different penalties would have felt that it was a hair-removing proposal. Finally, in the case of minimum penalties: it is absolutely right that the suspension is a section that argues against minimum penalties. It was just supposed to be missing. Minimum penalties, minimum penalties, are something we're just going to do if nothing else works. But that doesn't mean that we can't be willing to resort to it! The Committee on Justice, and as far as I know, all the parties present in the Committee on Legal Affairs, have applied minimum penalties, for example. in the case of rape. And we may be going to resort to minimum penalties again in matters relating to sexual offences that we are dealing with, for example. in relation to child abuse. But that's not the same thing as saying that imposing the minimum penalty is completely okay. There are concerns about it, and it's an instrument we only use if we don't think it helps to communicate with the courts. In some cases we've done that, but we hope for the longest time that we get into goal with other methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e764	Jan Simonsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e768	Then I'll make sure to be short. Now the representative Kristin Krohn Devold used rather sought-after examples. When the penalty framework is three years for some types of crime, it is the upper penalty you can get. You usually don't get three years in prison for a little sloppy accounting, as she expressed it, but you can get a punishment for it. And then if you know that you get an even more severe punishment the next time you run a little sloppy accounting, you might want to get together and start keeping accounts like this. So easily this system will work. The aim of minimum penalties is precisely to prevent the courts in very many areas, especially in the area of general crime – the crime of violence and the crime of profit – from punishing so low that it seems quite unreasonable to most people. And the only way to get real punishments, in accordance with people's perception of justice, is to impose a minimum penalty that is significantly higher than the average criminal sentence used by the courts today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e777	I could only say yes and amen to what the committee's chairman said in his last post, but I just simply want to reiterate to the representative Simonsen's statement that you have to choose who you should feel sorry for, and who you should help. In this case, I can see no reason why Ole Brumm's attitude should not be the right one – thank you, both sides – because of course we need to protect society. There is no one who has ever expressed anything else, nor is there anyone who has thoughts that go in such a direction. That's exactly what's the point of justice; we're going to protect society from people who commit crimes. But we also need to help these people, so that they become ordinary, good citizens of society, who perform crime-free acts, live a crime-free life – for all of us. But in matters like this, it's hard to get real communication with the representative Simonsen, and the Stortinge pulpit is probably not the right place to have such a dialogue either. If I know Simonsen right, he will – to go back to my previous image – quickly be back in the tower to jump the next round. He may have changed the ski mark – read the case title – but the man on top of the skis will be the same, probably also the style.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e786	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e800	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e814	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e827	Then we're ready for voting. There is no voting theme in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e836	During the debate, Kristin Halvorsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a system that immediately ensures victims and relatives in serious criminal cases assistance from professional information staff who can assist them in coping with media pressure and intrusion.’ An alternative is to vote between the Socialist Left's proposal and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e860	During the debate, Mr Simonsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to bring forward the necessary legislative amendments to implement a system whereby the criminal proceedings taken in the second conviction are automatically multiplied by two, the third conviction is automatically multiplied by three, etc.’. An alternative is to vote between the proposal of the Progress Party and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e883	A vote shall be taken on the proposals of the Judicial Committee submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 1 February 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish its own legislative selection with a view to establishing a legal rule on the relationship between the regulatory plan and expropriation compensation, which makes the necessary legal boundaries as clearly as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15.ana.ud651e897	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Rikam, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 1 February 2000: ‘The government is asking for a new proposal for changes that both meet the need for better management while ensuring democratic control of the police. New elements in better police management could be the delegation of governance functions to local police officers who also consist of elected representatives, and the creation of a police inspectorate to check that central and local guidelines are being followed.’
