ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26.ana.ud830e31	Two permit applications are available: From the appointed Grand Delegation to Malawi, an application has been signed by the Head of the Delegation, President of the Grand Duchy, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl. That application shall apply from 31 October to 3 November to the President of the Stortinget, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, and the representatives of Odd Eriksen, Ursula Evje, Jon Lilletun, Morten Lund and Inger Stolt-Nielsen. From 31 October to 3 November, from the Central Party Group on Welfare Permit of the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder County: Dagrun EriksenFor Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Tron Erik Hovind For Buskerud County: Gerd Johnsen For Nordland County: Bears OlsenFor Rogaland County: Jostein RovikFor South Trondelag County: Tove Kari Viken3. Gerd Johnsen and Jostein Rovik are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the President of Stortinget, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, and the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26.ana.ud830e113	The representative, Erna Solberg, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26.ana.ud830e116	On behalf of the representatives of Sverre J. Hoddevik, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I would like to make proposals to launch competitions on measures and employment services for disabled persons, disabled persons, social clients and other persons requiring additional organisation and follow-up in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26.ana.ud830e121	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26.ana.ud830e133	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 301]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26.ana.ud830e147	Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and Siv Jensen have made proposals on the legal regulation of the infringement of the law. The matter has been dealt with by the municipal committee and the majority of the committee rejects the proposal. The majority of the Committee refers to the attitude of the Labour Law Council to the problem of strike-breakers in 1965, where, on the basis of the review of case-law, they drew up principles of employment in the event of a conflict of labour. Since 1965, case-law has been largely based on these principles. In Norway, we have a tradition that the parties themselves will sort out such things that the Progress Party will now regulate. The fact that the Progress Party will weaken the striker's rights is nothing new, and that they will also weaken the employees' organisations is nothing new either. At the same time, it is strange that the Progress Party, which most often claims to be against new laws and regulations in Norway, continues to promote proposals for more laws and regulations. The majority of the Committee has also pointed out the establishment of a Partyal Committee, the Committee for the Tariff Negotiating System, which is to analyse the whole negotiating system and the framework for negotiation and conflict resolution. If the parties perceive that the issue of strike interruption is problematic, it must be possible to assume that the question will be discussed in the sample. The majority of the Committee considers that it is at least not appropriate to make a legal provision until the sample has assessed the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26.ana.ud830e156	The present proposal from the Progress Party on the regulation of the law on strike-breakers is not intended to restrict the striker's rights, as the representative Leif Lund said in his statement. The intention of the proposal is solely to provide a more precise delineation, a legal delineation of the use of the burdensome term ‘strike infringement’, while clarifying the rights of the unorganised during a strike. That's the way it is. 800000 unorganised, and they should have a very high level of rights. The concept of strikebreaker has no exact definition at present, as the term is not defined in Norwegian legislation. Discrimination is legally not illegal at all, but the use of the term primarily involves ethical and moral condemnation, and it is therefore considered to be one of the most powerful musculoskeletal words in the world of work, which is, in effect, directly insulting if misrepresentation is made. In Norwegian injury law, it is considered quite certain right that it is a disgrace to be called a strikebreaker on a false basis. So accusations of a strike break are something you shouldn't throw around in vain. Nevertheless, the accusations of strike breaking are often solved in an intriguing strike situation, at the latest that we had in May of this year, and there is often a high degree of confusion about what is to be regarded as strike breaking, and what is not strike breaking, so the need for a more precise definition of this congested term is, in my view, so absolute present. I therefore find it regrettable that the will to clarify this further in the legislation is not present here in the Stortinget today. A strikebreaker is today, after the current Norwegian legal opinion, a worker who directly takes over the work of one who is on a legal strike. It is, therefore, according to Norwegian legal opinion, a strike breaker to directly carry out the tasks of those who are on strike. And this is all right, because most people are of the clear opinion that it's not to be perceived as a strikebreak when unorganized or non-strike is in their usual work as long as they don't directly replace the work that strikers would otherwise have done in the same workplace. Nor can it be regarded as a strike break when owners, family or civil servants carry out the work, even if this replaces the work of the strikers to some extent. However, there is often a high degree of conflict when unorganised or others are forced to complete the closure of the strikers, and there is often full confusion about the rules around this and about who has the right to determine the full blockage of an enterprise. We often see striking attempts to expand the concept of ‘strike breaking’ in order to increase the effect of a strike block, and experience shows that there is a lot of controversy and hostility both during and not least after a strike because of all these uncertainties. Many people are cursed in such a situation when they are refused to work with their workmates on the grounds that they may be strikebreakers. Therefore, in my opinion, there is a clear need for a legal provision that establishes the main principles for the extent to which non-organised workers can continue to work during a strike without being called strikebreakers. I take up the proposal of the deposit representatives Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26.ana.ud830e169	Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the word. [[See page 302]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26.ana.ud830e179	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26.ana.ud830e329	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring forward the necessary legislative proposals which would further delineate the concept of infringement of the law.’
