ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e48	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e53	I allow myself to propose Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e58	Kenneth Svendsen has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e63	On behalf of Olav Gunnar Ballo and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the review and amendment of regulations on the keeping of fur animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e68	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e82	The Ministry of the Environment's decision to build 500 more dwellings on Fornebu than the municipality of Bærum has opened up, raises more questions: 1st@item: inlistbox What are the national interests that suggest that it is right to use the power of the state to force a municipality to open up 500 additional dwellings?2. To what extent has party policy been crucial for the decision of the Council of State?3. The Ministry of the Environment, after giving a county authority to decide on objections under the Planning and Building Act, withdraws the authority because it does not like the decision in a single case?4. Is it right to grant State-building rights of objection while State-building safeguards the State's fundamental ownership interests?5. What are the consequences for local selfgovernment that the Workers' Party lowers the threshold for the use of state power?6. Does the State Council have back coverage in Stortinget for the decision that has been taken? Housing and business development intervenes in the heart of local society and in the backbone of local democracy. The right-hand approach is based on the principle of subsidiarity. Decisions shall not be taken at a higher level than necessary; decisions which may be taken by the municipality shall be taken by the municipality. At the same time, local, regional and national interests call for housing and industrial development to be facilitated. In the past, both the corporation tax and the municipality's share of the personal tax, the taxpayer, were carrots that promoted development. The Workers' Party and the Centre's parties have given the company tax to the State and reduced the value of the taxpayer, reducing the municipality's self-interest in facilitating housing and business development. It may seem that the Workers' Party has replaced a policy to stimulate the municipalities with a policy to force the municipalities. In June 1999, Bærum adopted municipality level 2 for Fornebu. Bærum Municipal Council adopted a framework of 5000 dwellings and 15 000 jobs. State buildings will have 6,000 dwellings. In a mediation meeting with the County of Oslo and Akershus la Bærum, the municipality submitted proposals for an increase of 500 dwellings so that the total number of dwellings would be 5,500. When Akershus County considered the matter in February 2000, they joined Bærum's new proposal. The difference between the municipality of Bærum and Statsbyggen was 500 dwellings at this time. An extension on Fornebu will go over a ten-year period. This means that the annual increase in the state achieves by using coercion is about 50 dwellings. When we know that the need in Oslo and Bærum is between 2,000 and 3,000 new dwellings per year, years, it makes no sense to talk about regional or national interests in order to defend the use of state power. Then my question becomes to the Minister for the Environment: Was it party loyalty that finally became decisive in this matter? It is a reality that the Workers' Party, when dealing with the case, both in the municipality of Bærum and in the district of Akershu, wanted much more housing at Fornebu. It should also be added that the Workers' Party was a small minority both in the municipality and in the county. Most people thought the case was settled when the district council in Akershus gave its support to the municipality of Bærum. Akershu County has, as a testing scheme, been given delegated authority to decide on objections under the Planning and Building Act. But then one. The Minister for the Environment not only disagreed with the politicians in Bærum and Akershus, she was also willing to withdraw the authority delegated to Akershu County. To achieve what? About 50 more dwellings per year. years. It is not surprising that many people believe that this smells more of party loyalty than of what can reasonably be defined as national interests. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment: what are the consequences of the Council of State thinking that the Ministry of the Environment, having given a county council authority to decide on objections under the Planning and Building Act, is withdrawing the authority because one does not like the decision in a single case? State buildings have always wanted more dwellings on Fornebu. The state building therefore appealed against the decision of the municipality of Bærum and had the matter brought before it. And again it was State Building that sued the county council decision so that the matter came to the Environment Minister's table. However, there is a very unfortunate mix of roles. State-building acts both as a landowner and as an administrative body with right of objection. Although the housing comes primarily from Oslo's property, it is a reality that the area should be assessed together and that the State and Oslo municipalities as landowners have common interests. It can therefore be questioned whether the national interests or the ownership interests have been the governing bodies of State Building. When Landsbyggen acts as the landowner, it would be clearer whether the right of objection was transferred to another body. I therefore have two questions for the Minister for the Environment. First of all, does the Council of State see the principle of concern in the fact that State Building acts in such cases both as a landowner and as a trade union body with a right of objection? And if the answer to that question is yes, will the Council of State take the initiative to clean up the different roles of State Building? The census of the Workers' Party government states: ‘The government will strengthen local democracy.’ Furthermore, ‘As many decisions as possible should be taken where people live and work.’ What is the content of these words when it is no longer necessary to exceed two levels of administration than the one shown by the case in question? Head of the Central Association of Municipalities and Active Labour Party Politicians Halvdan Skard described in Asker and Bærums Budstik the following decision of the Minister for the Environment: ‘A strong central power intervention against local democracy.’ Furthermore, ‘The sign from the Council of State is that we are allowed to make decisions as long as we do what the State wants.’ And this is the core of the matter. With the Fornebu case, the Labour Party government tightens the grip on the municipalities. The threshold for when the state can intervene is lowered. The signal is clear: municipal autonomy applies as long as the municipalities do as the state says, or, as in this example, as long as the municipalities do as the Workers' Party will. I would like to ask the Council of State: what consequences does she have for local self-government in the light of the Fornebu case? There are also other examples that illustrate that the Workers' Party will use the power of the state and override local self-government. In this regard, let me limit myself to mentioning the debate on the coastal zone. I look forward with interest to the Council's answer to my questions. Finally, in this debate, it is important that other parties also clarify their position. Firstly, is it true that it was right for the Minister for the Environment to use the power of the State to force the municipality of Bærum to open 500 more dwellings on Fornebu, while also overstepping the second level of administration, Akershus County, which had been delegated by the ministry to decide such matters? Secondly, if the answer to this question is yes – that the use of the power of the government of the workers party is supported by the government – what are the consequences for local self-government that the threshold for when the state can intervene is now lowered?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e164	It is linked to significant and partly conflicting interests in the planning and post-use of the Fornebu area. As you know, the area is owned by the State and the Municipality of Oslo, while the municipality of Bærum is the Regulatory Authority. Both municipal and state guidelines apply to the development of this central area in the Oslo region. The decision of the Municipal Council of Bærum 2 for Fornebu by the Municipal Council is important for the necessary planned clarifications for the development of the area. The plan defines the main action of the Fornebu plan design and is the result of a comprehensive planning process with active cooperation with the relevant authorities and interests. The plan appears to have been revised and, in my opinion, provides a very good basis for the development of Fornebu into an attractive area for housing, jobs and recreation. It is important to stress that the department has approved the municipal sub-plan itself. The central conflict in the plan, which led the case to finally end up in the Ministry of Environmental Protection, was the question of how many dwellings should be built on Fornebu. The background was as follows: Bærum municipal government adopted provisions for the plan, which included a frame number of approx. 5000 dwellings and 15 000 jobs. State buildings, which are responsible for safeguarding the State interest in the after-use of Fornebu, raised objections to the decision of the municipality requiring at least 6000 dwellings and 20,000 jobs. Following the mediation of the County of Oslo and Akershus, the case was sent to Akershus County Municipality – in line with the experiment in Akershus County with the delegation of the Ministry of the Environment’s authority to decide on objections under the Planning and Building Act. The county council adopted an increase in the number of dwellings to a minimum of 5500 in line with the municipality's proposal in connection with the county mediation. State buildings maintained their objection to the number of dwellings, but declined the objection relating to the number of jobs, as the county council in its decision specified that it should facilitate the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre in line with the wishes of the Storting. The Ministry of the Environment concluded after a thorough examination of the case that there is room for an increase in the number of dwellings in addition to the increase shown in the decision of the county council. It was given as a premise for the further planned work that at least 6000 dwellings in Fornebu should be provided. The decision also states that a social housing policy profile should be set for the development. It is assumed that a significant number of dwellings, at least 20 to 25 pst, meet the Husbank’s criteria of quality and price level. The interpellence of the representative, Sanner, raises questions about the Government's view of the local authorities' right to take local decisions under the Planning and Building Act and my decision in this specific case. I believe that the Planning and Building Act takes good care of local democracy. Municipalities are responsible for taking binding decisions on land use. It is only in cases where the decision conflicts with national or important regional interests that the State can intervene. Of the approximately 1,500 spatial plans adopted annually by local government in Norway, only 30–40 are submitted to the Ministry of the Environment for decision, and in about 30–40. half of these cases maintain the decisions of the Ministry of Municipalities. Local priorities dominate the planning process in Norway. However, such a decentralised planning system requires a safety valve to clarify issues where conflicts arise between national and local priorities. The objectivity institute in the Planning and Building Act is such an instrument. Significant State and regional interests are linked to the development of the Fornebu area. Based on Stortinget’s treatment of new main aerodrome at Gardermoen, national policy guidelines for the post-use of Fornebu were provided. These suggest that land use on Fornebu should be assessed in a comprehensive perspective and that land use should be seen in a regional context. The guidelines further state that it is essential to facilitate the provision of housing with good land use. The State interest in the area is also clearly expressed in relation to Storting’s involvement in the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. The size decision in this case gives clear leads in relation to the land use on Fornebu. The use of land and the implementation of restrictive parking policies in this area are also important elements to address the significant transport and environmental problems of the West Corridor. The representative, Sanner, states in the interpellation that the department's decision is contrary to decisions taken by the district council of Akershus and the council of the State Pollution Control and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I would like to point out that Akershu County Council of the County Committee in the opinion on the plan proposal asks that: ‘the share of the dwelling in the plan is increased up to 6000 dwellings in order to maximise land use and to meet a high need for housing in the region. This will also be an important contribution to increasing the operational base and capacity utilisation of the public transport solution’. It is also clear from the decision of the county council that the county council would like the total housing structure to be higher than they themselves have adopted: ‘Akkershus County Council asks the parties to assess whether a large part of the working space can be converted into dwellings so that the total housing construction can be increased.’ My decision to arrange for 6,000 dwellings can hardly be said to be contrary to the political intention of Akershu County Municipality. The opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade was obtained as a basis for my decision. Their resistance to a higher housing rate was a concern that this would be at the expense of the necessary areas for the IT and knowledge centre. My decision clarifies this relationship and also has the agreement of the Minister of Industry. State pollution control recommends that the objection from State Building be rejected. This conclusion is based on the national spatial and transport planning guidelines. My conclusion is based on a broader basis than this, underpinning the national policy guidelines for the post-use of Fornebu and the housing needs of the Oslo region. The SFT also states that one should consider a further increase in the number of dwellings in the further planned work. The Ministry had close contact with the municipality of Bærum in dealing with the objection case. It has been important for me to give the municipality great freedom of action in the further planning work. It is clear from the decision that the municipality must decide within which sub-areas and how best to facilitate the envisaged increase in the number of dwellings. I therefore do not agree that the department in this case has exceeded neither the municipality of Bærum nor the municipality of Akershu. On the other hand, I am reasonably sure that the content of my decision, which means the priority of housing and a high element of reasonable housing, has broad political support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e215	Let me thank you for the presentation by the Council of State, which in its content is most alarming, as the Council of State does not answer the questions asked by the interpellant in the interpellant. However, the Council of State initially said that there are significant and conflicting interests in this case, and I agree with that. What the Council of State did not clarify, however, is how the Council of State and the Ministry have taken care of what can be called national interests, how to define 500 additional dwellings to be built over a ten-year period, such as national interests, when we know that it will provide 50 additional dwellings in an area that requires 2 000 to 3 000 dwellings. Then there is a very liberal term for what can be characterised as national interests. In relation to Akershu County Council, let me just quote what the Workers' Party's own county rapporteur in Akershus has said on this matter. He says that the act of the Council of State ‘confirms that the State is always right’. So when the Council of State takes the decision of Akershu County Council for income for its vision and interpretation, it is most perceptive and strongly contrary to what the Workers' Party County Rapporteur has also said, and he was in a minority in Akershus. He was in a minority in Akershus, but has sufficient integrity to say that the councillor in this matter has overrun Akershus County. As I said, I miss the answer to the question raised about which national interests it is that it is right to use the power of the state. Then I miss the answer to the consequences the Council of State believes that it would have given Akershu County Municipality authority to decide such matters, so to take the authority back when one does not like the decision in a single case. I also miss a fundamental assessment by the Council of State on the different roles of State Building in this matter, namely that State Building has both the right of objection as a governing body and is at the same time responsible for the state's fundamental ownership interests. State buildings are sitting on both sides of the table, and I think it would have been most tidy in this case if you had put the right of objection to another professional body. I also miss a fundamental assessment by the Council of State of the consequences for local self-government of the reduction of the threshold for the use of state power. Both the municipality of Bærum and the district of Akershu believe that this matter has been overrun. The opposition leader of the Workers' Party in the municipality of Bærum and the Workers' Party's deputy rapporteur in Akershus are of the same opinion, namely that the state council has used the power of the state to outrun local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e230	In this case, I assume my responsibility as Minister of Environmental Protection in planning matters. This is not about pushing aside local self-government. It is not about changing the principles of strengthening local self-government. On the contrary, I am working on a number of reforms to strengthen environmental protection in municipalities and give them greater responsibility in environmental matters. We have also launched extensive testing schemes in relation to the municipalities in this area, and this will give us the opportunity to discuss with Stortinget when we present the next biggest report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and the government's environmental protection policy. However, in some regulatory cases there are conflicting interests, where both local and national interests are represented. There are few things – as I said, there are only a few dozen cases out of 1,500 cases a year. So that's why we have this safety valve, which makes it possible for issues where there is a conflict to be resolved. The Fornebu case is one, and I presented three very specific national interests that need to be taken into account. One is what I mentioned about the national policy guidelines for the post-use of Fornebu and looking at land use in a comprehensive perspective where housing is central. The second is the State interest linked to the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre in this area. And the third, which is also a major environmental argument, is the connection between having good land use and restrictive parking policies in order to achieve good collective development solutions. This refers to a higher number of dwellings than the ones contained in the plan initially, and it also gives us the opportunity to get a large share of the housing in this area, dwellings at a reasonable price, and allows for a varied housing structure in this area. In the case of the testing scheme in place in Akershus County, which was started in 1998, it shall be evaluated after three years. It is clear from this system that it is open to decisions by the Ministry of the Environment to be taken with this system. Now we also have the opportunity to discuss future aspects of the planning process. The Public Plan Law Committee delivers its first partial position at New Year's, and I look forward to entering the planning process to streamline it in the future with a view to both strengthening the local part of it and looking at the relationship between the municipal and the more central part of the planning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e241	The matter that the interpellant raises concerns two aspects. One is about decision-making authority and procedure, and that's what Jan Tore Sanner puts the emphasis on. The second is the content of the matter, the results: the question of the number of dwellings. I believe the Council of State has provided a good description and justification for the test. There is no doubt that the state has legitimate rights and interests in testing, and I will reject the fact that this is about ‘overrun’ and breach of promises of greater local self-government. The statistics of the Council of State also show that this is not a general trend in relation to testing by the Ministry. I would also refer to this as an adjustment to a comprehensive plan, with the main lines fixed. I can hardly describe the use of Fornebu as a purely local issue, among other things. based on all of the rounds we've had here in this room. Nor do I want to say that regional considerations can be limited to Akershus in this case, and the Council of State has also expressed differing views in an enlarged regional context. The entire Fornebu project also involves state commitments in the future. So to the main content and what I think is the most important thing: the question of housing. It is claimed that 500 dwellings are not of national interest. Well, it's at least an important national task for the Workers' Party to build more and cheaper homes, and I've registered that it also has ups and downs in most parties. In particular, it is important in press areas such as Oslo and Akershus. Then we have to look at all possibilities. There is also no detail on 500 new dwellings, as there are 500 new opportunities for people looking for accommodation who would not otherwise have received an offer. A comparison: Before the summer, I got involved in a project in the municipality of Bærum. It was for 130 rental homes for young people. After many people participated, it was almost a joy when the project was secured house bank financing. Asker and Bærum's Budstikke wrote that it is a breakthrough for cheap dwellings and an acceptance of the state commitment that it is built for young people also in a high-cost area such as Asker and Bærum. It is this State obligation to influence which is also the intention of an adjusted housing figure on Fornebu. There is a unanimous political view also locally in the municipality of Bærum that one has to build several dwellings, and light and light are being sought for new opportunities for several housing projects in an area where there are difficulties in recruiting the care sector and other service professions due to pressures in the housing market and sky-high housing prices. In this context, the decisions of the authorities in this case are positive. I note the emphasis of the Council of State on the social profile of housing policy and the possibilities for home banking funding. [[The President clubs.]] For those seeking housing, the result is the same as for those looking for housing, a housing figure of 6000 is positive for Fornebu. I hope that the Right and Bærum municipalities will seize this opportunity for the benefit of those seeking housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e256	For the President, it's also time!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e259	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e264	It is important that strengthening local democracy not only becomes empty words in relatively tumultuous speeches. If one gives the impression that local democracy is important, this must also be followed up in practice. If not, it could be felt as a deception of the communities and those who manage the public funds and rules at this level. It is a situation that is hardly appropriate if a person wants a viable and developing democracy. The Progress Party is not of the opinion that the more bodies that can review a democratic decision in the municipalities, the more democracy they get. It is worrying to see with what zeal the county marries municipalities with objections in almost any major matter of some importance. It is not better that state-owned companies such as Staatsbyggen and the Railway Agency have independent objection authority. The municipalities are the instance that has the largest and longest process of planning, often with a lot of popular commitment. Then it's strange that the longer you get away from this knowledge and insight, the greater the confidence in your own infallibility. Akershu County has got a trial authorisation to settle matters where there are objections. You might say what you want about this, but when you give a power of attorney, it should be taken seriously, especially from the authority that gave the authority – the state. When the Government chooses to overrun both the municipality and the county each time either the Railway Agency or State Building has something to do with the political priorities, there will be no doubt little left. When there have been questions about the use of proxy, and questions have been raised by State Building or the Railway Agency, the State has chosen to overrun the county. In the same way as in Bærum, the question of rail trajectory for the new double track through the Ski municipality was dealt with by the Government. There, too, a procedure was chosen that gave little room for understanding or confidence in relation to the desire for a minimum degree of local self-government. One might hardly claim that the cross-border choice through the Ski Municipality was of great national importance. It was also here a large and clear majority both in the municipality and in the county. Nevertheless, the State chose to overrun the decision. It's hardly on the basis of popular commitment or the desire of local self-government that this is being done. Now there is also another case at the government table, namely a case between the municipality of Nannestad and Oslo airport. It has also been treated in the county. It might be interesting to see whether the Government also chooses the same approach as in Ski and Bærum.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e279	During this year we are likely to build 23,000 dwellings in Norway. Over the next ten years, we're going to build between 150,000 and 200,000 homes, given that there won't be an economic crack in this country. That's what the housing statistics show. Thus, in such a situation, the country considers it necessary to enter and define 500 dwellings in Fornebu as being of ‘national interest’. This means that almost all the control plans in Oslo that come in the next few years to expand larger residential areas need to be defined as having a national interest. That means that all the agglomeration in Fana, my part of Bergen, must be defined as being of national interest. It simply doesn't matter! I really think the example of Bærum is an attack on municipal autonomy. It is not in line with the premise the Storting has tried to lay. On 26 March 1998, the Stortinget held a fundamental debate on local democracy in this Chamber. We then said that it was important not to use the opposition institute too much, and that it was important to provide – at least with so much earmarked funds and so little room for action on the economic side of the municipalities – to strengthen local democracy in terms of greater influence in the areas such as: went on land-use planning and on the design of its own neighbourhood. The size decided at the time to pray ‘The Government shall carry out a review of the Planning and Building Act with particular emphasis on reducing and coordinating the ability of different State agencies to intervene in a planning process. The aim must be to increase local self-government through a simplified planning process, reduced treatment time, and to clarify the premise as to when government authorities can intervene, for example. through a clearer definition of the term ‘national interest’. We haven't got that review yet. It comes within the framework of the Plan Law Committee, which the Council of State has also mentioned in its additional response. I hope that the intervention that the Council of State has now taken will be a gruesome example of the intervention in local self-government. There is no reason to define 500 dwellings as being of national interest. That there might be an opportunity or a legitimate right to participate in a dialogue on the exploitation of the land of Fornebu based on the involvement of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party for special solutions related to this area, may be so, but when the Council of State ultimately actually also review a decision that has been through mediation, then I think she has gone into a drastic attack on municipal autonomy. And in relation to the housing construction and the post that Vidar Bjørnstad had, I have to say that there is no reason why the state should be able to define the construction of 500 dwellings over a decade as being of national interest. There is hardly one residential area extension in Norway that must not be treated in the Ministry of the Environment to discuss the extent of congestion, if any. And then we have resigned local democracy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e289	The interpellant has today seen the search light on a specific matter in its state, and it is well and good. But it's in a basic light the question becomes interesting also for people and communities in other parts of the country. For this reason, the debate should be based on two premises: firstly, conflicts between local and national interests are unavoidable and, secondly, the state should be very careful to review local policy assessments. The majority in Stortinget is behind such a policy line, and the main impression is that this is followed up in practice. It came, for example. at the moment a Document No was discussed in Stortinget. Eight proposals – for which I otherwise spoke – and the question of national interests in development matters was assessed against local democracy. Minister of Environment Guro Fjellanger then presented material showing that government powers intervened less frequently than before in local plans, and this trend intensified over the years of central government at the rudder. And we can count on the government following Stoltenberg actively in the same track. But, as I said, conflicts are not to be avoided, and sometimes central powers need to take the necessary initiatives. For this reason, national policies are developed that deepen and clarify national land policies within a particular geographical area or field of action. One of these guidelines shall coordinate spatial and transport planning. The point is that there should be a great deal of emphasis on presenting clear foundations in the relevant cases. It is also important that government interests appear as early as possible in the process, so that the central and local level is constantly aware of the situation. It may be interesting here if the Council of State in clear terms can state that these premises have been respected in the specific matter that the representative Jan Tore Sanner has raised here today. The question is also relevant because there is a plan law selection that is responsible for proposing measures to reduce the state-level detailed management of municipalities and county councils, and in this context, it is natural that the whole planning process is focused. So I'll answer Jan Tore Sanner on a question, or let's call it a challenge. The central part will not lower the State intervention threshold. Of course, the centre party will work for a development that goes in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e303	It is an important issue the interpellant invites to debate on. Not least, it is interesting in relation to environmental issues. Beach area, predators and land use are the catchments concerned. The left has a strong commitment to strengthening local democracy. That is why I agree with the conclusion that the spokesman for the Centre Party drew, namely, that we want less government control, no more. And this strong local democratic commitment is also the background that we've arranged to establish constitutionally local self-government. We have also called for less designation and different local election days, just to focus on measures that can strengthen local democracy. In some contexts, however, it is legitimate for national interests to be taken into account, and this should be done primarily through dialogue and cooperation. And of course, it's a question of whether that possibility has been tested to a large extent in this case. The safety valve represented by national overrides must be used very carefully, and it is positive and an expression of a real priority that the number of cases where there was over-management was reduced during the time of the central government. This case shows the dilemma in the conflict interest between state, municipality and state, but there is also a good illustration of the lack of ability and will it is regional to resolve conflicts where different municipalities have different interests. And I've registered that while the interpellant Jan Tore Sanner rages against the decision, it was cheering in the Oslo Right. So it's not like this is a unique party political image. It's a little bit dependent on what position you have. Bærum and Oslo have stressed that the development of Fornebu must be based on a good collective solution. It is absolutely essential for the Left. I have registered that the Minister of Industry is opening up a bus solution. To the left, it seems that it is a poor solution to operate this area with the number of jobs and dwellings involved – corresponding to a medium-sized Norwegian city – by bus on the E18. And I want to challenge the Minister for the Environment to be a driver to get a good track collective solution to serve this area. If you don't follow that commitment, it'll be an over-management of the local interests that are very dramatic, and it doesn't want the Left to be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e314	I've tried to focus on three main questions. One is whether this specific case is so important that you can talk about national interests, the other is the different roles of State Building, and the third is the consequences for local self-government of overcoming the municipality of Bærum, as the ministry has now done. I'm left with a little bit of the same feeling as Kristin Halvorsen, as a late night on the Stortinget said that discussing with labor party councils is like boxing cotton. I must admit that the answers given by the Minister for the Environment have been very unclear, and the Council of State has avoided answering any specific questions, among others. related to the different dual roles of State Building. As far as national interests are concerned, I think that the big business representative Erna Solberg put the matter in the right perspective, namely that this is where the power of the state is used to get 500 more dwellings over a decade. When we then know that in this country nearly 200,000 dwellings will be built in the same ten years, we need a very liberal approach to the concept of national interests in order to define it in such a context. The representative of Kvassheim underlined the need for dialogue and cooperation. Yes, the municipality of Bærum said initially 5,000 dwellings, state buildings 6000, Bærum proposed 5,500. Then I believe that the municipality of Bærum stretched very, very far. The question that remains after this debate is: Did the Council of State have a back cover in the Storting for its decision? I'm recording that the Progress Party is in line with the Right. I also find it difficult to interpret the Senterpartiet and the Left there that they support the overrun of Bærum Municipality by the Council of State. Then we're left with one party. It is a Christian People's Party and they are not present in this debate. It is also a bit alarming, as they have a representative from Akershus in Stortinget. I record that the Christian People's Party has not participated in the debate, but if the Christian People's Party had participated and expressed the same views as the central parties, it is difficult to say otherwise than that the Council of State lacks back coverage for the decision taken. Finally, Vidar Bjørnstad gave his support to the Council of State. I note that it is contrary both to opposition leader in the municipality of Bærum, Halvdan Skard, who has stated that the management of the Council of State is a ‘strong intervention by the central authority towards local democracy’, and to the Workers’ Party’s deputy rapporteur in Akershus, who was also in a minority and who stated that this shows that ‘the State is always right’. So it's workers' party politicians, even though they've been in a minority, who acknowledge and express strongly that here the Workers' Party has overrun local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e334	There have been many constructive contributions to this debate. I fully agree that the State should be careful to intervene in local planning processes. That's how it works today. I also agree that environmental responsibility in the municipalities must be strengthened, inter alia. in areas related to waste permits, outdoor issues, predatory policies and cultural memories. This will be an important follow-up to the debate on real municipal autonomy in Norway in the future. But the opposition institute in the planning dossiers acts as a safety valve in those cases where there are conflicts between national interests and local priorities. Some of these things we obviously want to have in the future. However, I see the need for a review of the planning process. Questions may be asked about the need to clarify national interests in planning. There is also a need to coordinate and clarify the basis of the various agencies for intervention in municipal planning processes. These are issues that will be discussed in the follow-up to the decision-making process of the Public Plan Law Committee. In this way, we can go into the discussion about how to deal with major issues in a more satisfactory way. In this case, there is no doubt as to whether State Building's occasion for objecting to the state interest in the after-use of Fornebu. Collective solutions have been taken up. I agree with what has been said about the importance of getting them in place. Further investigations have now been launched by the Government which will not delay the timetable for the clarification of collective solutions, which will be important for the whole of Fornebu. Finally, there is reason to point out that there is still a lot of work to be done before new Fornebu can be completed. I believe that the overall leadership that has now been given in connection with the municipal sub-plan can help us to obtain a predictable and rapid clarification of the many regulatory plans that will come for the various sub-areas of Fornebu in the time to come. It is something I believe both the municipality of Bærum and the state will see themselves served, and I am convinced that we will have a good dialogue in the further work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e345	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished. The size has now come to case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President will state that the setting of this matter has not been cured at the time set by the Rules of Procedure, i.e. 48 hours. Under Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget handle this matter. No objections have come against it, and one sees it as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e359	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speech time of the President of the case be set at 10 minutes, and that the speaking time of the other speakers be set at 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e366	The Committee shall present the Innst accordingly. S. No 25 on the logistical functions of the defence. It is with satisfaction that, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I can say that the Committee is essentially unanimous and agrees with the intentions of St. prp. No 55 for 1999-2000. In the proposition presented by the Ministry of Defence, the Government proposes to establish the Defence Logistics Organisation, which I will, for the sake of simplicity, call the FLO. At the time of establishment, the FLO shall consist of the supply commands of the Army, Air Force and Maritime Defense, located respectively at Kolsås and Kjeller in Akershus and Haakonsvern in Bergen. In addition, it shall include the Defence Telecom and Data Service, including at Kolsås, the material part of the Defence Command/Sanitary Staff at Røa, as well as parts of the Regional Supply Commands and the Defence Other Workshops. The FLO shall be part of the Defence Military Organisation and shall be managed by a Chief of Defence directly under its command. The Chief FLO shall be supported by his or her own staff and may be civil or militaryly appointed. The Ministry has proposed the establishment of the FLO by a three-phase phase implementation. These are the three phases described in the proposition: ‘– Phase 1 consists of three main actions: the addition of Chief FLO.The establishment of a staff. The tasks and resource use of the organisations concerned will be seen in the context of the manning process.Fast implementation of the proposals for vertical and horizontal integration recommended in key option 1... Phase 2 includes the establishment of a joint investment and development organisation as part of the internal structure of the FLO. [[IUO]] This shall be established by the end of 2003... Phase 3 includes an OE process based on experience from, and partly in parallel with, phases 1 and 2 with a view to establishing a more process-based internal structure for the FLO.» The proposal emphasises that phases 2 and 3 will be implemented in cooperation between the Ministry, the Defence Manager, the management, the employees and the customers. In Phase 3, one will also assess the type of connection to the FLO, including: management enterprises will be assessed. In addition, one will also consider whether the Military Geographical Service of the Defence and the Building Service should be part of the new organisation. One of the big changes with the FLO in relation to what we're used to in Defense is that the FLO should be customer-funded. This means that individual customers from the other parts of the Defence must pay for the services and goods they receive from the FLO. All parts of the Defence that will be covered by the FLO have been previously funded. The main task of the FLO shall be to exercise professional authority and administrative tasks, to acquire and deliver material, supplies and other goods and services at the right place, in due time and with agreed quality. Then you might ask yourself, hasn't this happened before? Yes, it has, but it has long been a cross of thought that the three branches of the defense, for example. each has its supply command. Many of the same goods and services are provided by three different commands, but the difference is that they are each responsible for sea, air and land. The proposal states that the current organisation of the logistical functions of the three supply commands, the telecommunications and data services of the defence and the management stages of the regional and local organisation of the inspector-general has provided limited coordination. In addition, there has been little overall use of resources in defence as a whole. A large part of the Army's and Air Force's warehouse and workshop organisation is currently outside the Head of Supply's responsibility for production. One of the reasons why an FLO is established is the need to seek solutions for the peace management, organisation and operation of the Defence that are significantly more effective, resilient and economical than today. Productivity needs to be increased and operational costs need to be reduced. The proposal provides a detailed explanation of the economic and administrative consequences of the proposed measures. I will therefore not mention these in my post, just stress that these are important savings for the Defence in the future. The defense is currently in the middle of an ongoing and, not least, expected conversion process. No one has been able to avoid reading about FS2000 and FPU’s proposals for changes to the Defence. The Committee agrees that the establishment of the FLO, as proposed, will have a positive impact on the ongoing and expected migration processes. Some have asked whether it would not be wise to wait with the FLO until the rest of the conversion proposals come to Stortinget, that is, in February 2001. We mean the opposite. Most of what is in the FLO, especially in phase 1, will be important for the further work in the conversion process. In this respect, it would be appropriate to point out that the Committee has not followed all the recommendations for decisions proposed by the Ministry of Defence in the proposal. There was an uncertainty in the Committee on the Ministry of Defence would aim at presenting the implementation of phases 2 and 3 to the Stortinget. A letter was therefore sent by the Committee to the Ministry of Defence on 11 October 2000. In a letter dated 25 October 2000 from the Ministry, it was answered: «It is the department's assessment that proposals for decisions in St.prp. No 55, together with the backgrounds and assumptions of the other proposition, the Ministry provides the necessary framework for the implementation of phases 2 and 3. During these phases, the FLO will undergo a subsequent reorganisation and adaptation of the organisation. There is no need to consult the Stortinget further in this reorganisation of the FLO. However, the Ministry sees it as a matter of course that the Stortinget is informed of the progress made in the construction of the FLO through the annual budget proposals.» The Committee did not agree with this assessment and has stated in its comments that it believes that there will be a need to consult the Stortinget further in the context of the further reorganisation of the FLO, and in this respect we refer to the Basic Law Section 25 and established practices in similar cases. The Committee therefore assumes that the Government will submit the necessary proposals to the Grand Duchy before phases 2 and 3 are put into effect. Furthermore, the Committee considers that the objective of setting up a joint investment and development organisation as part of the FLO by the end of 2003 should be maintained. In view of this, the Committee has not made the proposal for III contained in the proposal. I understand that this can cause some fear that the conversion will be delayed, and that one will not achieve the effect you would like, early enough. It is therefore for the rapporteur to stress that the proposals for conversion promoted in the FLO have been very well received by the Committee, and the Committee has no desire to delay the process, but perhaps vice versa, by supporting the proposals, to strengthen the process. As indicated in the Opinion, the Committee has divided into two parts. None of the two minority comments really go to the proposals for the reorganisation of the Defence Logistics Organisation. The first disunity is simply that the minority is taking the lead in how savings are going to be used in the future; we who make up the majority will not do so now. The second dispute concerns the form of association in which the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, which constitute the majority, are open to the form of association and support the Ministry for its investigation, and that one will return to the Stortinget with this in connection with phase 3. We don't want to tie the department up on this issue until it's figured out. I assume that representatives of the minority explain their reasons. I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e436	The rapporteur has clearly set out the background and the position of the Committee. I would like to add some initial comments to the setting. Firstly, you have been in the committee for some time — over the summer — and perhaps it could have been expected that the committee would have the power to produce the report at an earlier date. From the point of view of the Progress Party, it seems to us that it has been very important to go through consultations with the organisations concerned in a fully satisfactory manner, and of course it has taken some time. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this has been necessary in order to give a clear idea of the views of the organisations concerned and the views of the staff on how this organisation should continue to be carried out. When the committee then gives almost unanimous green light to further the matter, we feel that the outcome of the hearings has helped to lay the foundation for the broad consensus to which this is put. On the other hand, this new organisation affects a third of all defence personnel by far. For this reason, it is very important that everyone is now able to carry on loading. And it's outlined significant savings potential in the document that led to the setting. Now that we're in front of the first part of the implementation, it's also obvious that you have to think a lot of new things. I think there is reason to be aware that the three supply commands have significantly different fields of action with regard to the material that is managed and sent to the users. And that makes it possible to have some optimism about the savings that you've seen, but in that case it'll be a challenge for those who are now going to implement the project to get this done. But I want to emphasize that with three so far different large components in this, there are also some things that are probably unraveled, and for which it will take some time to find the right way forward. Also, with regard to the other parts concerned, the telecommunications and data services, the sanitary staff, the regional supply commands and the defence's other workshops and stocks, substantial work will be required to achieve a cost-saving conversion. And that's precisely saving money on the operating side that has to be the purpose of getting this through. We all agree on that. When it comes to how to apply what you save, I'm a little surprised that the majority couldn't follow the comments that the Progress Party and the Right have voted for. That's how I read it, in line with the proposition that the funds you save will be used to reduce the imbalance between tasks and resources in the defense. That's why I'm very surprised you couldn't be a part of it. I then assume that when you have not wanted to say this, it is because you are a little uncertain about what financial framework you intend to give in the future. But I think it has to be okay here and now to get an answer from the majority on whether they agree or disagree in that department itself has proposed in the proposition on how to apply savings. For savings are being withdrawn and the framework is being reduced, and then one is on the road to the regrettable imbalance between the means of operation and the apparatus available. So I'd like to ask for a clarification of this. Then the head of defense has had a number of points of view since the NOU was presented and brought forward through the treatment, which the department, as far as I can see, has met far along the way. And it's important that whoever has the shoe on and knows where it's printing, also keep it on, and the head of defense is very well worth listening to in this context, in the opinion of the Progress Party. What I think can be a problem is this with customer financing and not funding. Here, with the somewhat uneven availability of funds that have been common in the 1990s, situations will easily arise where the buyer does not have money. And what about those who have been selling? So this is obviously a dilemma that you have to figure out. And I imagine that this will mean problems for the development and operation of the FLO in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e455	I refer you to what the case spokesman and the committee leader said, I don't have much to add to it. It's obvious that here there's a great saving potential that it's important to realize. We should not, at any rate, spend more money on public service than is necessary. However, there is a pick at the setting and at the proposition that I want to stay a little bit, and it is said that the realised efficiency gain will be used to reduce the imbalance between tasks and resources in the defence. That's very good. But it has been said so many times in the 1990s, and it has never been followed up by the plurality of this house. We've seen that throughout the 1990s there's a fight. 1760 was used as a crosspost for everything else. I think it is right to say that the savings we have had in the rationalization that has, after all, taken place in the 1990s have disappeared again in this way. So talking about the rationalization gain being used to reduce the defence imbalance and to provide material is increasingly felt like a bluff by the defence personnel. They're going to throw blues in the eye with this way of talking. After all, I feel it is a serious matter. I hear so much about this when I meet the defence personnel. They don't think it's serious anymore, with the way it's going to run. So I want to ask representatives of the plural that either they have to stop talking about this, or they have to follow up in practice and stop using 1760 as a plural post, and permissions according to the framework underlying the long-term message. If not, it is increasingly felt that it is not serious what the Storting is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e464	The defence is facing a major reorganisation in the near future. This is necessary in order to achieve a lasting balance between investment and operation within what can be considered as a realistic defence budget in the foreseeable future. A proposition about this is expected to the Stortinget early in February next year. The case of Stortinget now deals with – about the logistics functions of the defence – must be regarded as an important step in the process of conversion. The Defence Committee endorses the Government’s proposal to establish the Defence Logistics Organisation – abbreviated FLO. The reorganisation shall take place in stages, in three phases, as mentioned, inter alia. by the rapporteur-general. In phase 1, a chief of staff will already be appointed for the current year and a staff will be established for the new organisation. A vertical and horizontal integration will then be carried out by the end of 2002. Phase 2 includes the establishment of a joint investment and development organisation and is assumed to be implemented by the end of 2003. Phase 3 includes a so-called ‘OU’ process with the aim of creating the most efficient organisation possible. At this stage, the question of whether the building service and the Military Geographical Service of the Defence will be part of the organisation will also be considered. In this process, the form of association will also be assessed and decided. During its work on the matter, the Committee visited several of the organisations concerned. After this, my clear impression is that the proposal for a reorganisation of the business and the establishment of the Defence Logistics Organisation has been welcomed by the majority of those affected. There have been few strong counter-conceptions to hear. However, some uncertainty about the practical consequences, in particular of phases 2 and 3 of the process, has been detected. The logistics functions of the defence are currently performed by a number of organisations that will be grouped under the new organisation, the FLO. At the time of establishment, the FLO will consist of the supply commands of the three defence sectors, the telecommunications and data service of the defence, the material part of the defence command and the sanitary staff, as well as parts of the regional supply commands and the defence's other workshops and stocks. With regard to the other details of the organisation of the FLO, I refer you to the statements of the case rapporteur, Grethe Fosslis. The coordination of defence logistics functions, the appropriate organisation and transition to customer financing should provide a good basis for rationalising and improving the efficiency of the business and thus a significant saving potential. Of the defence about 25 000 employees, there are now approximately 7000 working on the exercise of logistics. According to the proposal, the reorganisation could result in a manning reduction of about 600 annual works. The annual savings may reach DKK 1 billion once all three phases of the reorganisation have been completed. This is a very important contribution to the big shift in defence that the Stortinget is supposed to make towards the end of spring 2001. The Committee recommends that the size of this operation should provide a green light for phase 1, where annual savings are estimated to be approximately 300 million. kr. It is assumed that the Stortinget will be submitted to the scheme for phases 2 and 3 before it is implemented. As indicated in the vote, the Defence Committee shall make a unanimous recommendation. The comments also mainly bring together the whole committee. However, there is some disagreement on the form of association. In principle, the choice is between four forms of association that have been assessed, namely the ordinary administrative, management, state and public limited liability companies. Of these, the two former administrative bodies and management companies appear to be most relevant. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right consider that the Defence Logistics Organisation should become a management body rather than a management company. The other parties, which form a majority of the Committee, do not already wish to take a position on the form of association. We believe that there are positive aspects to both of the current forms of association and require further consideration. The decision must then be submitted to the Government’s proposal for the FLO’s form of association before the implementation of Phase 3 of the reorganisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e500	As both the committee leader and the case rapporteur have pointed out, this is, in reality, a very large and important matter, which has not received particular media attention – which major and important issues often do not receive. When they often don't get it, it's because they're relatively obvious, they're well-founded, and there's general excitement from most people who've been involved in the case. And so it gets a little bit on the sideline in relation to what's controversial, but it doesn't get any less important for that reason. It's really big things The Storting is now being invited to join. Firstly, the obvious: the defence logistics organisation is established. Military, Maritime and Air Force Supply Commands, Defence Telecommunication and Data Service, the material part of the Defence Overcommand and Sanitation Staff, parts of the Regional Supply Commands and the Defence Other Workshops and Stocks will be part of the FLO. The FLO will undergo a subsequent reorganisation and adaptation of the organisation. And it goes without saying, as the committee leader was involved, that in an organisation that has up to 1/3 of the employees in the defense, this is a very comprehensive process. I underline again – as I said both in the proposition and in the setting: the FLO is established as part of the Defence Military Organisation, directly under the head of defence, and as a mainly customer-funded organisation. And last but not least: a joint investment and development organisation is established as part of the FLO by the end of 2003. The history of the matter is known by most who follow this debate. It is based on a wide-ranging investigation carried out by a project nominated by the Ministry. Representatives from both the Ministry, the Defence and the civil service organisations participated in this project. The assessments and proposals have been widely presented in NOU 1999:8 Material Management in Defence. Future activities, governance and organisation. The project included: established with a background in control signals from Stortinget, and I refer to Innst. S. No 134 for 1995-96, where the Committee stressed the need to: ‘assess potential efficiencies through increased integration also between supply commands’.» The recommendations contained in the proposal will provide an effective and comprehensive use of resources and competences in the exercise of logistics, a good basis for balanced adaptability of defence from peace to crisis to war, and enable the activities to meet the challenges of the future as a result of the comprehensive transformation of the defence. It goes without saying that I am therefore very pleased that the Committee is joining the Government's proposal to establish the Defence Logistics Organisation. I note that the Committee assumes that the Government will submit the necessary proposals to the Storting before phases 2 and 3 are implemented. I am also pleased that the Committee maintains the objective of establishing a joint investment and development organisation as part of the FLO by the end of 2003, in the form of a note. Both the NOU 1999:8 Defence Material Administration and the NOU 2000:20 A new defence points to the importance of flexible connectivity of logistics functions. This is important in order to enable the new Defence to regulate the relationship and size of sub-enterprises, so that they can be quickly adapted to changes in the structure and tasks of the Defence. Both the form of association and the pace of introduction have an impact on the efficiency potential. I am therefore also pleased that the Committee endorses the Government's proposal that the form of association be further assessed in Phase 3. I don't have much need to interfere in the wording of the vote either by majority or minority, except to say that we perceive it as being free to work on the basis of the proposition in terms of wording. One has not been in the Defence Committee for more than two years without understanding the opinion of the representative of Mr Godal and the chairman of the Committee. And without pre-empting the budget debate, I would nevertheless point out that we have an investment share in next year's defence budget – if it were to be adopted in the Stortinget – of over 30 p.m. It is a higher investment share than most NATO countries have. So everything has not agreed to salut all sorts of other ‘crazy’ – so it is not wrong. Then we'll get back to the matter eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e527	I suppose the Minister of Defense will agree with me that neither the Council of State, nor the ordinary citizen, nor the Defense, live by percentages alone, but of the crowns that form the basis for calculating percentages. If we can agree on that, and that can be confirmed, we have a basis for looking at the development of the budgets and their consequences. I'm not going to start a defence budget debate. We can get back to part of that later. But what I could imagine challenging the Council of States is the balance between what is necessary to do in peace and what is absolutely necessary to do in a situation of war or crisis. And then there's a balance in this that might be difficult when you might be mobilizing and putting on a war foot, and that's how you organize this apparatus for crisis and war. One thing is to trade in peace and quiet in a peace situation, another thing is how to speed this up and get a quick impact in a war situation. And I almost expect you in stages 2 and 3 to perhaps pay even more attention to how to do this in a transition phase. It is mentioned in the proposition, but I would like to point out and ask the Council of State to make an assessment of how such a solution has now been proposed could work, not least in the light of what kind of business organisation you should have. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: When you now have to finance the FLO, you depend on someone setting a selling price and someone is willing to pay this price. Now how do you do this? And with the awkward access to funds, how in the world can you manage to make sure you have money to buy for at the end of the year, when it's cut along the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e536	The representative Røsjorde, the committee's chairman, is right to do so – he refers to the proposition's formulations of the requirements for the supply of services in crisis and war, and for natural reasons they will be different from what is the case in a more peaceful situation. These questions are partly addressed in the proposition, but it is quite right that the committee's chairman is concerned that we need to go into it more when we now formulate the various follow-up proposals relating to phases 2 and 3, which the Storting will be presented after the vote. In other words, we have to keep an eye on the military organisation's needs when we go into this phase, and make sure that this form of organisation, which I believe is good and effective, and which the Committee has given its support, does not have aspects that, in fact, prevent the military from effectively operating the material. That's what I want to say about this for now. We're fully aware of that and we've signed it out in the text, but it needs a higher level of detail in the follow-up to the proposition at that point. I would like to say about the relationship between the sale price and the seller and the buyer: It is clear that almost independent of the organisational model, the defence depends on the fact that there is money to purchase the material that is necessary. There is a general consideration that I am absolutely sure the Defence Committee will come back to in many different phases and variations when we are going to discuss the next long-term report for Defence. If this basic assumption isn't there, it almost doesn't help how to organize it. So that part we're fully aware of. It is not useful to talk about prices and offers if the person who is going to buy does not have the money to buy for. We can come up with rather difficult issues if not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e543	I am pleased with the answer given by the Council of State on a further assessment of how to organise in a crisis or war situation. I also think it is important to add that we need to follow closely the way in which the organisation is managed in relation to international operations, which also require a rather rapid response, and which may require very special expertise in supporting the logistics activities of that type of activity. It has to be carefully assessed, because here it will go up and down, depending on the total activity. It is very important that we have pace and development opportunities within the organisation. So I'm grateful for the Council's response in this area. I would like to go back to this with customer financing. As the Council of State also pointed out: it goes wrong if the person to act does not have money. It may go wrong for the person who is going to buy, but it may go even more wrong for the person who is going to sell, and who has no other person to sell to. There may be some of the problems with the organization itself. If we look at the impact of previous years' budgets, it's been that a lot of what you're asking for, you've been careful to ask because you've known that at any time of the year you've been able to cut your budgets, both on the investment side and partly on the operating side. I would like to ask the Council of State: how important does he consider it to be that the defence in a purchase situation has stable and clear framework conditions, so that it is also possible for the FLO to have sufficient control to know that you have the money to pay the salaries in their organisation at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e553	Stable and predictable framework conditions are clearly alpha and omega in defence planning, including on this point. There can be no doubt about that. And I'm sure we'll come back to that, both in the budget debate and otherwise. What applies to the defence in general also applies here. It says itself. If you don't have a rational device on it initially, you destroy a lot of the mechanisms that we're out to establish. Now you could say, halfway in a joke: If you had too much money – the father is probably not big – it could be thought that you were interested in paying too much for something you should pay a little less for. It's not a lucky principle either. I stress that this is a theoretical construction, but it should be mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e560	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e563	The representative Røsjorde asked for clarification as to why the majority could not participate in the minority comment that actually supports the proposition. Obviously we support the proposition, it should just be missing. But it's probably a growing suspicion in such comments from the Progress Party and the Right, and in the case of the representative of Godal's posts, that's what we often hear. That's why we didn't want to be on such a note -- that's the last part of the minority comment we didn't want to attend. But of course, the majority supports the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e572	It was reassuring to hear that we are now clearing up some of the comments during the debate. From the point of view of the Progress Party – and I assume from the Right – we believe that what has been pointed out by the Department is very sensible, where it is clearly said that the real-life effect should be used within the framework of improving the internal situation. When the Labour Party leader now says that she also agrees with the Department, it is reassuring, because that is also the basis of the Advance Party. The fact that you are a little suspicious of the comments of the Progress Party may be so. But when the Progress Party supports the proposition, I think it's nice to know that we're really on the same line. I think that also reassures the Council of State, otherwise he could probably have gone from here with a somewhat tumultuous heart – more than it would otherwise have been on the basis of. My challenge goes further and concerns precisely this by shifting operations and activities to save money and to take care of the organisation in the future. We know that there are a number of challenges. It is also important to give signals that support the ministry’s request and that the Council of State is so strongly underlined in its statement. Now he has received an answer from his own party, and then it is natural that the question goes on to the Christian People's Party, which has not said a word in this matter, and to the Center Party, which has supported the Workers' Party in this remark. And what I'm now asking for is a common understanding – as I understand we're about to slip into, if possible – of how important it is to keep a level of funding that gives predictability. I want to merge one more argument, which doesn't go to the two mentioned parties, but it goes basically on the whole, and that's the situation we have in general in defense. So now it's a goal to reduce the manning even for those organisations that fall under the FLO, and it's open to an opportunity to leave the Defense because the Defence Organisation has to be tuned down. At the same time, it's very difficult to see any means to hold people you want to hold within the organization. That means you've opened the fence, you've put the carrots outside the fence – and then there's almost no feed inside. Then everyone knows how the flock is going. My question is further: in the context of the development of the FLO, what will be done to provide incentives for maintaining vital competences? In these areas, very narrow niches require competence. This is a question that goes to the Council of State to some extent, how to look at the need for this, because it is difficult to see that there is such an incentive in the budget for next year. I then ask the Council of State: is it important to provide, create room for and create opportunities to retain qualified personnel? Then I think I have been asked clear questions, and I hope for clear answers. And I'm not going to challenge the state council further on this by percentages.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e589	So we're in the exact same situation as in the proposition, that savings should be made to the Defense so that the imbalance is corrected. We are fully in agreement, and all we ask is that the majority now comply with this in practice – contrary to what has happened throughout the 1990s – so that this can become a reality and not just become blue in the eye of those who are in Defense. When the case spokesperson stresses that there is a deal about what is in the proposition, all we are asking is that a person comply in practice in the year to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e598	The committee leader said that he had asked specific questions and expected concrete, clear answers, and I allow myself to answer on behalf of both the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in this context. We haven't distanced ourselves from what's in the proposition, so we support the proposition, just as Grethe Fossli explained that the Workers' Party is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e605	The human resources policy issues raised by the chairperson of the Committee have, of course, a general address for the defence in its entirety and will also be addressed to the future FLO. I believe and hope that the new FLO will become more interesting career and professional as a job, with different career paths and opportunities, and thus give a chance for a richer life than what is in an original form of organization based on brooming and relatively isolated opportunities. No special wage funds have been provided for the organisation of the FLO. In that case, it will be part of the General Human Resources Policy of the Defence. And there you take the chairman of the committee so far as the nail on your head. It is obvious that the defence, like other public agencies, is in fierce wage competition with others, while, in the context of the need for change in the defence, we have a slim need that is comprehensive, illustrated by 4,000 and 6,000 annual works, or equivalent, respectively, in the Defence Policy Committee and in the Defence Manager's defence study. And combining the take-off incentives with maintaining critical competence is a work of art in itself. I have said at many meetings recently, including in meetings with employees' organisations, that no one has the right to be encouraged to take off. It is, therefore, the defence's own management at all levels must critically review applications and have the opportunity to reject them. So the carrots aren't for everyone's enjoyment, and automatically. It's pretty important to get there. At the same time, I'm not worried about the number of applications today. It is significant — around 1 000, of which a majority have been granted it. However, in relation to the objectives that the Storting itself laid down in 1991-1992, or when it was, on savings of up to 6,200 years old, we have all the experience that this is progressing steadily over time. But we should be obsessive, so that we can balance the need for departure from the need to maintain critical competence. That responsibility lies with our system – of course the department and me primarily politically, but in the day-to-day head of defence and underlying agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e616	So the debate is on case No. Two over. [[Footing, see page 507]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e630	In this proposition, the Government has presented the following proposals for changes to the activities of the Defence Agency: changes in the Defence Wage Administration with closure of the Wage Offices in the Defence Telecommunication and Data Service/Oslo, District Command East/Hamar and District Command North Norway/Harstad phase-out of the DHC-6/Twin Otter and closure of the 719 Quadron The proposals for these changes are in line with guidelines drawn up by the Storting's previous handling of defence activities and developments in the period 1999-2002. The defence’s payroll administration is a significant administration, which pays 25 000 employees in the defence and 34 000 people in the service during the year of a shorter or longer duration, e.g. repetition exercises. With the upswing development, not least from the defence side, within this field, it goes without saying that there are opportunities here for a significant savings potential. Different organisation, different practices and establishment at central, regional and local level are strongly influenced by this. Furthermore, the potential for rationalisation has been identified by the Ministry. The Ministry therefore proposes to close the payroll offices of the Defence Telecom and Data Service, the District Command of the East and the District Command of North Norway. There is a lot of talk about a central payroll administration, with an overall exploitation of staff resources, a better quality and better disposal of staff, with the savings potential it provides. Based on the Ministry's calculations, centralisation will provide us with a saving potential of 23 years' work compared to today's organisation. The Ministry has proposed the location of Oslo, more specifically for building 64 at Akershus fortification. It seems therefore strange that the department has not been told that the Stortinget has not granted money for the renovation of this building, which is required before you can move in. This cost is calculated for approx. Fifteen million. kr. The Committee has noted that the number and organisation of district orders and territorial regiments are under assessment and that the continuation of the possible establishment of remuneration functions in relation to a district command may be subject to uncertainty. The defence shall also acquire new pay, accounting and staff systems. Reference is made here to the Committee's comments on the GOLF project. The Committee assumes that the remuneration administration will continue in Oslo, Harstad and Hamar in its current organisational form until new framework factors are clarified. The Committee therefore considers it natural that changes in the Armed Forces’ remuneration administration are included in the long-term proposition to be addressed in spring 2001. The proposal for the phasing out of DHC-6/Twin Otter and the closure of the 719 Quadron is based on the fact that the department has gradually gained a marginal impact on the activities of the Defence. The importance and needs of the 719 Quadron in the structure of war have gradually become small or no longer present. The flight time at the squadron has been significantly reduced in recent years, while the human resources have fallen considerably. The savings potential of the closure of the rake represents an operational savings and an increase in the efficiency of the defence activities. Compared to current operating costs, savings amount to 6-7 million annually. kr. However, the closure of the squadron requires the purchase of services enabling the implementation of the support functions previously carried out by the 719 squadron. The Committee therefore considers that DHC-6/Twin Otter is phased out and that the 719 quadrant is closed by 31 December 2000. I would recommend the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e661	We have received a proper review of the matter from the case-rapporteur, so I will be quite brief, but the Christian People's Party does not want to be accused all day long of not saying one word in this Chamber. Christian People’s Party – and Center – is concerned that things are seen in a context and not isolated. Therefore, we also think it appropriate to wait for changes in the Swedish Armed Forces' remuneration administration and the closure of the payroll office to be addressed to the Government's long-term proposal for spring. We are pleased that an overall committee has come up with this. These changes are likely to be sensible to achieve effective pay management, and will therefore also be economically sound, because they can result in savings. For both district and other reasons, which will be clarified when dealing with the long-term proposition, we believe it is right to postpone a decision in that part of the case now. In the second part of St.prp. No 75 follows the Christian People’s Party – and Center – proposals of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e670	I have just a few comments related to this setting, which is of course unanimous, but which contains the phasing out of a squadron that has done an important job for the Defense, often under difficult conditions. With the Twin Otter personnel, there have been opportunities that go far beyond what is required for normal flights, even within operations that mean a lot to the staff and to the capacity. There's something I want to stress, when a unanimous committee says, ‘The Committee has also noted that the transport of personnel and materials can be transferred to civil carriers.’ That is in so far as it relates to the ordinary part of this transport operation. But then there's something special about the service that the 719 Quadron has done, and it's just this to give support functions, especially to special departments and to hunters. And here, there's probably not very good supply on the market to secure a capacity that can accomplish this, except for helicopter support. What I want to challenge the government council is: how does he look at providing adequate coverage of this need, just to support the training of hunters and special forces? The last thing that has been chosen is a strong commitment, and therefore an apparatus is needed to do its job in line with modern principles of conflict – not least because we have also applied and are likely to apply our special forces and expertise in this area in international operations. So the question is, how does the Council of State view achieving adequate capacity in sufficient volume? The second question is: when the Committee also points to the assumption that measures are taken to requisition this capacity within our defence concept, how realistic is it that the Minister sees it as a necessity to ensure the Committee's point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e688	The Ministry has here referred to the professional recommendation of the head of defence, which is also the basis for both the proposition and the suspension. But at the same time, it is obvious that there are needs that need to be met, and I am prepared to follow up this to follow the Chief of Defense's professional recommendations on how to do so. So he does not initially consider that it is so difficult that he will continue with the squadron for that reason, but believes it is possible to find solutions, and within reasonable limits we are interested in doing as much as possible to meet the needs that the committee's chairman rightly understands. I don't want to speculate on the needs beyond that, except to signal goodwill towards the demands that need to be formulated. They're hardly dramatic, then they'd followed the proposition, to say it like this. A small comment on the suspension regarding the Defence Wage Organisation. There are marginal differences in time to follow the initial proposition and what is in the setting, so I don't have any particular comments on it – except that the perspective that lies in the proposition clearly reminds us that what we are left with at the end of phase 3 and then, is a very small organisation. I.e., the intention is not to have a large number of annual works that carry out pay payments in the Defence. The whole concept is based on a strong slimming of this, so much so that what it means is marginally what it means, both in an Oslo context and in a district policy context. But we'll have the full opportunity to come back to that when the long-term proposition is presented to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e695	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 508]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e709	The proposal by Siv Jensen and Per Ove Width on the conversion of the State Canteens into a limited liability company is a sensible proposal, and after some consideration time we can now see that the entire committee is in favour of the proposal. The Council of State has also come to the conclusion that the form of a limited liability company can be an appropriate form of company for the State Canteens. I refer to his letter of 27 October 2000. The only question that divides the Committee is the proposal for the subsequent privatisation of the company. Here the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right claim that canteen operations should not or should not be a State matter. I can very much agree that there is nothing obvious in the fact that the State is going to operate on canteens. On the other hand, there is no strong argument that the shares should be sold. The majority of the Committee has therefore concluded that it is natural to comply with the request of the State Canteens themselves in a letter to the Ministry of Defence in 1999 to be converted into a limited liability company. The background for this was a unanimous government decision in the State Canteen in October 1999 to wish to become a fully-fledged legal entity and an independent enterprise after demonstrating a successful transition. When the State Canteen was established as a state enterprise almost four years ago, and not as a limited liability company, the reason was that it was intended to ensure that there was at least one professional and reliable supplier of canteen services for the whole defence. However, today the market has been developed in such a way that this consideration can be addressed by several alternative suppliers. As of 1 January this year, as is known, the Canteens of the State have had to compete in the same way with other suppliers, which has led to several departments choosing a private catering company. After the introduction of free competition, the State Canteens have lost the competition for the operation of 15 welfare canteens at the Departments of Defence in North Norway and three places of leave in Hammerfest, Tromsø and Narvik. I think this is a healthy development. This means that the canteens of the State now have to tighten up both in terms of professionalism and in terms of price. There has been an important consideration for the Committee to limit the responsibilities it currently has with regard to the full guarantee of the company's debts. It is unfortunate that a State enterprise is not the subject of bankruptcy proceedings in the usual way — perhaps not for the creditors, but for the State that owns it, which has a full responsibility to cover creditors’ claims in the event of liquidation. Of course, commercial arrangements can be made in relation to a State undertaking which is different from those which will be made in relation to a State limited-liability company. By converting the company into a limited liability company, we will thus contribute to promoting the principle of competition on equal terms, which I believe will also serve the Defence and the State. The company will then have the same framework conditions as other actors. The main difference will be the so-called Section 10 provisions. An advantage of failing to enter into a subsequent privatisation is that we can then retain Section 10 of the statutes. These provisions are found in all public limited-liability companies, and they require the board to present to the general meeting all matters which are presumed to be essential, in principle, political or social. Other matters considered to be significant may also be included in the statutes. I believe that since this case is also about the country's defence, it is important that the state has an opportunity to have an influence on important decisions if the situation so requires. The majority of the Committee has also shown that, pursuant to Section 9 of the Statute, the Kantines of the State have a commercial obligation to submit bids on behalf of the Defendant for the purpose, and that the Share Act does not contain any provisions that suggest that the obligation to offer in Section 9 cannot be continued. We are therefore in favour of continuing the paragraph by transforming it into a share company, even though we see that this does not have all the world's importance in today's market situation. I stress that a conversion itself will not have any negative consequences for the employees. In its letter of 27 October, the Council of State emphasises that conversion to AS could contribute to strengthening jobs. I agree that increased demands for professionalism and earnings, which the canteens of the State are now facing, will be positive and can make the canteens of the State a more interesting job. The good results the company has had in recent years also give cause for optimism for the future of the State Canteens.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e732	It's not exactly a privatisation of Statoil we have to debate today, although the principles can be the same in many ways. There is a significant difference in the size of these companies. But, like the debate on Statoil, there are good arguments both to keep the company as a state enterprise and to turn it into a corporation, and also to sell out the shares. The canteens of the state are a business that goes down. The 1999 annual report shows that the State Canteens achieved a pre-tax result of 11.3 million. NOK 8,8 million. kr the previous year. This was the company's third year as a state enterprise, and there is no doubt that during this period the company has been significantly strengthened. The efficiency, restructuring and development of new concepts have contributed to making the State Canteens an attractive partner in the canteen and catering markets. Several important contracts have been won in competition with other actors in the same market. As the company goes as well as it actually does per person. Today, it would be thought that there was no reason for this company to do anything about its corporate form. The state-owned enterprise model may seem to be a good model for this enterprise. However, the canteen market is an industry in growth and development. Annual growth is estimated to be 5-6 pst., which is in line with the annual growth of the State Canteens in the last three years. Strategic buying-in and the objective of the players to win significant parts of the market characterise the development of the industry. The competition is hard, and the profit margins are moderate. The combination of good concepts and ability to adapt to the needs of the customer, together with the confidence in the professional and development of the actors, are important factors for winning new assignments. The State enterprise model may act as a hindrance to an enterprise that wishes to be a professional operator in the market, as described above, inter alia. further, because the Ministry of Defence has to approve borrowings, the Ministry has to approve the possible separation of subsidiaries, the purchase of other enterprises and mergers. The canteens of the State will be difficult to act quickly in such cases, and there may be a problem in a market described above as characterised by large players’ position by purchasing small businesses. On the other hand, the working party will not go to the step of selling out the shares after the enterprise has been converted into a limited liability company. This includes, inter alia: because in a limited liability company there will be far better opportunities for strategic management of the company. In a public limited liability company, the specific provisions of the Shares Act § 20-4 and § 20-5 will be an important foundation. These provisions imply that the Governing Council is still the General Assembly and that it is the General Assembly which elects the Governing Board. These specific provisions will lapse if all or part of the shares are sold and other shareholders are withdrawn. There is also reason to question the rights of employees in the various tariff areas if the limited liability company should be sold. Employees are currently mainly organised in the NTL and have wages and salaries and entitlements in this tariff area. In the case of a sale of the shares, so that the company becomes an entirely ordinary limited liability company, it will be possible to push employees into tariff areas regulated by the parties in the hotel and restaurant industries, tariff areas far worse than the tariff areas currently in force. On the basis of this, the Workers' Party will recommend that the State Canteens be reorganised into a limited liability company and that the shares become 100 pst. State-owned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e754	When it is claimed that the State canteens go so suser, it is possible that this is correct, but there is no argument that the state should own. I believe that if the state does not own and the state canteens become a private enterprise, it will go even better than ‘so it sucks’. Then you have the opportunity to run a business on completely different terms and completely different premises, and you can run a private enterprise based on the possibilities in it. The canteens of the state have a long history. The company was established in 1948 under the name Defense Canteens, and only it indicates that the times have changed. At that time, the main purpose was to promote the well-being of the soldiers on a commercial basis, as it was hot. The times have changed, and there is therefore no reason why what was then called the defence canteens, should now bear such a strong imprint on the defense. The government's Canteens have then moved on to become another organization. The activities are currently organised in two divisions and one central staff. The Division of Recreational Canteens and Hotels is responsible for the activities of the State Canteens in the Defence Department, while the Division of Staff Restaurant and Catering is responsible for the activities of the public and private canteen market. The state canteens have recently won contracts, and are now operating, among other things, Canteen in Oslo Børs, in the Hakon Group pen and in Canon. This therefore suggests that the State canteens are on the private market and operate on a commercial basis in relation to it, and there is therefore no reason for this to be governed by the State. The only advantage is that the canteens of the State cannot go bankrupt, but it is a major disadvantage for competitors to engage in bidding – one competes with a company that cannot go bankrupt. What competition is that? The time must now be overdue to reconsider the basis on which the canteens of the State now operate. As I said, there may be a market problem for other competitors because the entity cannot go bankrupt and does not operate in the same way as a private enterprise does. A natural follow-up to the Government's proposals for the reorganization of State canteens to limited liability companies must be that the shares are sold on the free market. Therefore, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, I support this proposal: ‘The decision authorises the Government to sell the shares of the State Kantiner AS’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e770	Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e773	It's not a lot of places I'm a general assembly, but I'm in the state canteens. I had not had anything against transferring any insignificant shares in this connection, but I guess I had gone out of my role and spent them on something else. But it is also a completely theoretical problem, unfortunately. First of all, let me say that I am happy with today's setting. The view of the Department is expressed by the exchange of letters appearing in the annex to the suspension. The state canteens are an up-and-coming enterprise, go well and will be able to operate in a new form of organisation in an even more appropriate way. It is clear that the sectoral policy considerations underlying keeping the enterprise as a purely state-owned enterprise are different in a situation where others are now acting with real competition in this area. The fact that a contract was found right in North Norway to be awarded to Eurest AS is an example of the fact that others are also out on this market, and that we are actually having a competition that makes the traditional so-called sectoral policy considerations not as strong as before. I also find reason to stress what is referred to in the vacancy, that any transformation does not in itself have a negative impact on the employees who do a very good job. The transformation could help to strengthen jobs, as already mentioned in the debate before my intervention. The work continues in the new company under the laws and agreements in force, and there is reason to stress that employees are protected by the same laws and agreements of a limited liability company as in a State undertaking. For both types of company, the Labour Environment Act and the Working Time Act are the central laws. In order to ensure that the canteens of the State can provide a competitive, reliable and professional offer, we consider it important that they have framework conditions in line with their competitors. Organisation as a public limited-liability company will provide the company with almost the same framework conditions as other market players, and there is reason to emphasise further work. I have also noted the Committee's proposal to continue the State canteens' statutes, Section 9, that the company should be obliged, on a commercial basis, to submit offers on behalf of the defence subject to the purpose. Nobody else has a duty to it, and maybe it's a completely theoretical construction that offers will not exist, but knowing that someone has that duty, of course, has interest, and so on, the defense is in a special situation with other social institutions. I think it's important to bring this forward as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e790	Both as former case rapporteur for the canteens of the State and because it is so rare to see that it is something special to enjoy in these budget periods, I have to be allowed to relate a few words to the matter we are dealing with. It's very nice to read today's settings. The state canteens don't go about just so it sucks, so at least well. Turnover is increasing, and the number of employees is falling. If we understand the profit, we have a positive development. But it hasn't always been like that. A few years ago, the state canteens had to get very substantial support from the defence budget in order to maintain a service that they are now able to do on their own. I have to remember that as early as the fall of 1993, I had the joy and the honour on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party to make a proposal that is practically identical to what is now under consideration. We got the votes of the two parties at the time, while the rest of the Stortinge voted against, and so we were going to continue to use the defense's funds to do catering. It's a pleasure that we've come a good way in the right direction and can see the good results of it. Apart from the fact that in itself I have no desire to dissuade the Council of State from being a general meeting, it is nevertheless permissible to note that it is completely impossible to see any reason why the state should use its resources to own a catering business.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e799	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 508]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e812	We're ready for voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16.ana.ud1533e855	During the debate, Per Ove Width presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision authorises the Government to sell the shares of the State Canteen AS.»
