ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-upper-2.ana.ud147e63	On behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, I support the following proposal: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Note of the bookkeeping: the second paragraph of Section 2-4 is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘ Pension insurance undertakings shall set up a pension scheme management group of at least two persons. [[2]] At least one of the persons shall be chosen by and among the members."Section 16-2, third paragraph, should be assumed to be replaced by the following: «The provisions of Sections 3-3 to 3-10 on the right to membership shall, in relation to a pension scheme established before the law enters into force, apply from the time when the legislation of the pension scheme has been amended as referred to in the first subparagraph, or, in the case of pension schemes established by undertakings with employees who are members of the Seafarer Pension Fund, no later than 10 years after the entry into force of the law. Extensions resulting from this provision shall not affect the base rate on which the original life insurance contract was based. The provisions of Sections 3 to 11 apply to workers who have reached retirement age after the date referred to in the first sentence.» § 3-6, second paragraph, is assumed to be deleted.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-upper-2.ana.ud147e83	I refer to the debate in Odelstinget on the matter of occupational retirement provision. There, the Progress Party and the Right had very good and constructive recordings for which we did not get a majority, but with which we try again here in the Creation. On behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right, I propose: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Note of the classification: point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 1-2 is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Members: the employer and the employees who fulfil the admission conditions of the pension scheme legislation. A member is also an old-age pensioner who has ceased to be with the policyholder at retirement age and a disability pensioner who has become unemployed while in the service of the policyholder."Section 2-2, first paragraph, is assumed to read: "The pension scheme shall include at least one person in the undertaking who has a working time and salary in the undertaking representing 75 pst. or more of a full-time position.»Section 2-7, fourth paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: «If the period given in accordance with the second and third subparagraphs is not met, the credit supervision may provide detailed guidelines for the activities, appoint a new board of directors of the pension scheme, or decide that the pension scheme should be terminated and terminated in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 15.»Article 3-3, first paragraph, should be replaced by the following: «The pension scheme shall cover all employees of the undertaking who have reached the age of 25 years, unless otherwise determined by the rules of the law here and the corresponding rules. The legislation may lay down a lower age.’, the first paragraph of Section 3 to 5 should be assumed to read ‘employee with a capacity of less than 35 pst. in full employment in the undertaking, shall not be a member of the pension scheme, unless otherwise provided for in the legislation."Sections 5 to 6 second subparagraphs are assumed to be replaced by the following: «The Board of Directors may provide that the duration of the pension should be reduced to the number of full years necessary for an annual pension equal to or less than 50 per cent of the basic amount of the social security. The technical cash value of the pension shall be the same before and after the conversion.»Sections 10 to 4, second paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: «The entity may decide that funds of contribution funds exceeding half of the limit after the first subparagraph are to be transferred to the entity. Before the decision to transfer is taken by the undertaking, the question shall be submitted to the board of directors of the pension fund for an opinion.»Section 15-1, first paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: «The entity may decide to discontinue the pension scheme. Before a decision is taken, the issue of termination shall be submitted to the board of directors of the pension fund."Section 3-10, second paragraph, and the third paragraph of Section 6-1 shall be presumed to be deleted."
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-upper-2.ana.ud147e130	Several have not asked for the word. There are two proposals, the proposal by Aud Gaundal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party and the proposal by Vidar Kleppe on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Right. The President will first vote on the motion by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-upper-2.ana.ud147e143	The President will then vote on the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-upper-2.ana.ud147e150	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-upper-2.ana.ud147e162	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-upper-2.ana.ud147e176	First of all, on behalf of the Right, I regret that we have lost the fight against the clock when it comes to making our proposal for the Creation. Nevertheless, we hope for the generosity of the President and Lamentations when I address the following suggestions on behalf of the Right: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lamentations note: it is recommended that Odelstinget should refer to the bill.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-upper-2.ana.ud147e188	As the representative of Frost Sterri himself referred to, the proposal was submitted at 1 p.m. 9:30. According to Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal was to be submitted by 1 p.m. 9.00 a.m. today, but the President will, even under the Rules of Procedure, show the greatest goodwill to the Right Representative and will not reject the publisher unless 1/5 of the Members of the Lamentations will. There's been no desire to reject it, and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-upper-2.ana.ud147e198	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
